ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 10.30, - to Energy, Climate and State Assets - hour. 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Infrastructure - hour 11, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 11, - Health-- hour. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 12, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Public Finance - hour. 13, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 13, - Culture and Media - hour 14, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 3.30 p.m., - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Senior policy together with the Committee on Social and Family Policy and the Committee on Health - h.m. 16, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 18, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 18, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u2	Thank you. We have formal requests. Please, with a formal proposal from Boris Budka, the Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u3	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to request a recess by the hour. 12, a break for Prime Minister Morawiecki to repeal the scandalous regulation that has been in force since 1 January this year. [[Applause]] Imagine that the Poles paid for increases - record increases in gas, electricity, gas stations - and themselves? Unlimited increases in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Prime Minister, do you have any limits to hypocrisy? Please leave and tell me if there are any boundaries for you that you won't cross. [[Voice from the hall: The government feeds.]] [[Who's talking about hypocrisy?]] It wasn't enough for you to sell those parcels of yours. You still want to unlimitedly raise your guys' wages. President Kaczyński, I hear you're in charge here. [[The voice from the hall: Ziobro rules.]] Will you please do something for the people? [[Sit down!]] You took your 14th pension, so at least take what you... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[The voice from the hall: Kaczyński does not rule, Ziobro rules.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u4	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. [[What did he take?]] [[Some Members chant: Thiefs! Thieves! Thieves!]] There you go, with the opposite conclusion... [[Game in the O.R.]] You're welcome, Minister. Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Lie, lie... [[Vaccinations, vaccinations.]] [[Quiet!]] To the fact that you're lying, we're used to it, Mr President. But at least keep a little credibility in it. It's a regulation that you're showing... [[A billion zlotys for the Prime Minister's firm.]] ...lets you give extras to people who make 3,000. Gross. Therefore, in this cynicism - in this cynicism of yours, Mr. Budka - keep any credibility. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] [[You guys deserved it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u6	Thank you very much. There you go, because there's been a request for a recess, and I'm going to put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. [[Are you bald?]] [[Voices from the O.R.: It's not working.]] I know it's not working, because I can see that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: As always, it doesn't work.]] [[The state doesn't work.]] It's working. Who among you is in favor of announcing a break, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 214 - for, 222 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, Left, formal proposal. Please. [[Some Members show the banner with the inscription: Mr President, Prime Minister, dear ministers! We regret to announce the death of more than 100,000 Poles and Poles. They died of COVID-19. This is the fault of the PiS, who, out of fear of anti-vaccines, did not make a decision to save lives.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u7	Dear Marshal! On the basis of the article. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland formally request the adjournment of the sitting until the agenda has been completed on the draft of the Left on mandatory vaccinations and passports of COVID. Since the submission of this project, 15 100 people have already died since 7 December. How many people are gonna die? Yesterday, we found out that the official number of people who died of Coronavirus exceeded 100,000 in Poland. If you don't start to act real, there will be more people dying and more people living in our country. When one of your fellow Members came out yesterday after the Health Committee meeting, he said that it would take courage to introduce a vaccination obligation. Minister Niedzielski said that the management of the PiS is in favour of mandatory vaccinations. We appeal to you: Find the courage to save our citizens and our citizens. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Find the courage to save people. [[But doesn't he have access to vaccines?]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Inoculate.]] How many more people are gonna die before you finally get to work and finally find the courage to... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u8	Thank you, Member. There's been a request for adjournment. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: Resumption.]] [[Bravo, Marshal!]] [[Voice from the room: Ziobro is.]] [[The country in the box.]] We are voting again. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice in the Chamber: This is the second vote.]] [[Why number three?]] [[Voices from the O.R.: 2nd.]] [[It's number three, and it should be number two.]] Number two was wrongly activated, which is why it's number three. [[You're up to something.]] 440 Members voted. 204 for, 234 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Here you go, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Coalition Poland, formal application.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u9	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I propose to extend the agenda and to inform the Prime Minister about this mess, which has been accompanying Polish workers, entrepreneurs since the beginning of the year, this chaos that you introduced in the tax system. The Prime Minister should, but above all, present information to the citizens and apologise for this mess, the mess you created. [[Applause]] They're texting us... You say everything's okay, and we can show you thousands of e-mails from the teachers... [[Let me see.]] [[Voices from the hall: Let me see.]] ... uniform services, including veterans from Afghanistan, from single parents, from all those who have experienced mess, mess and chaos, which you introduce - lower wages, greater burdens. Who's gonna pay for extra staffing, accountants and IT guys to clean up your mess, your mess? Incompetence, inefficiency, failure of these governments must end. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[The employee's defense attorney is here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u10	Thank you. Since this was not a formal proposal, we will not vote on it. Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, PPS. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 I would like to ask for a change in the way the discussion is conducted and for a situation in which the Minister of Foreign Affairs will appear before the High House and submit information on the plan and intentions of the Polish government in connection with the Presidency of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Because thanks to this government we have a very bad relationship with our most important partner, the European Union, and thanks to the President and this government we have a terrible relationship with our main military ally, the United States of America, and with the Russian Federation we have actually no relationship, there is an overwhelming impression, Madam Marshal, that the presidency of the OSCE is actually one of the few opportunities to present Poland's position on what is happening (the Bell) even beyond the eastern border. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u12	Thank you, sir. We are not discussing, we are on formal proposals and therefore this proposal is not a formal proposal. Please, Mr Michał Grammar, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u13	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On 10 January, salaries are paid in thousands of Polish companies. Meanwhile, the Minister of Finance Tadeusz Kościński 2 days earlier by regulation was kindly to change the rules for calculating these salaries, of course in connection with a gigantic mess which you call Polish Ład. From day to day for thousands of Polish entrepreneurs this created a very real problem, forced changes in HR and payroll software, someone had to pay for it, someone had to pay for it. The Minister on one of the webinars on government websites says with a very warm voice: it is impossible to require something impossible from the payer. I ask you to establish a quorum. Perhaps this time will give you the opportunity to stand here, to say sorry, and above all to present the principles of reimbursement of the costs incurred by employers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Minister. You're a graduate of a good British school... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u14	Thank you, sir. After all, you know very well that the quorum is emphasized every time we vote, so the proposal is completely unfounded. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u15	Mrs. Marshal! I am making a formal request, or actually it will now be an extension of the formal proposal by Mr Kwiatkowski, that the Foreign Minister should appear and not only address the OSCE issue, but also this - because we do not know - what the foreign policy of our country is for the past two years. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Maybe there isn't.]] [[Right.]] We lost Belarus. At the moment the Polish money portal Nextal calls for the overthrow of the government of Kazakhstan, which broke out Russia. So we support Russia with our own money. I would like Minister Rau to explain who is in charge of Polish politics, who supports the Nextal portal, and to present how Polish politics works in general. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u16	Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services (Print No 1905). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to present the justification for the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to ask you to leave this room in an orderly manner by your fellow Members who will not take part in this first point. I would like to ask you to allow me to justify the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of submitting a draft law amending the Act on taxation on goods and services from print No. 1905 submitted by a group of Members of the Law and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law provides for amendments to the Act of 11 March 2004 on the tax on goods... Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to ask those Members who are not taking part in this point to leave the room and to allow the Member to present the bill. Sir, just a moment, sir. Okay? Hold on a second, please. The draft law provides for amendments to the Act of 11 March 2004 on VAT on goods and services, hereinafter referred to as the VAT Act, the main purpose of which is to implement measures in the field of taxation aimed at countering the effects of inflation. Inflation is today a phenomenon, ladies and gentlemen, a global phenomenon, unfortunately also affecting our country very strongly. The causes of global inflation, but also European inflation, are being said a lot. The main causes of the inflationary process are the world's largest price shock in the 1990s, the rise in energy prices caused, among others. European Union climate policy, a significant increase in food prices, the largest in the 1930s, metal ore and other raw materials for the production of industrial chemistry, wood, not to mention gas, which in our part Europe has been costing more than 600% in the last year. Ladies and gentlemen, the project provides for a temporary reduction of VAT rates between 1 February 2022 and 31 July 2022, i.e. for a period of 6 months, for food covered so far at a rate of 5% to the rate of 0. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have a zero food rate in our country for the next six months. For motor fuels: diesel, self-fuel biocomponents, motor gasoline, LPG, at a rate of 23% We're down to 8%. The reduction is to be at 15% . So far, this is the biggest reduction in fuel in our country's history. Fertilizers, plant protection products, gardening grounds and other... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]] Mr President, could you stop for a moment, please? All Members who are discussing in the Parliament's Chamber, please move this discussion out of the Chamber so as to allow, firstly, the speech of the Member and, secondly, those who are interested, a meaningful participation in the debate, because it is not heard at the moment. Thank you very much, Marshal. For fertilisers, plant protection products, gardening land and other agricultural products, such as soil improvers, growth promoters and some crop substrates, we propose to change the rate from 8% to 0. Thus, both in the agricultural production area, i.e. all components related to fertilisers, plant products and food will be at 0 for the next 6 months. The 0 rate is also proposed for natural gas. We're going to lower this rate, I hope, after we vote this law to the 0 rate. For electricity and heat, a rate of 5% is proposed. The amendments proposed in the Act are, ladies and gentlemen, a continuation of the anti-inflationary measures in the first inflationary shield developed in 2021, thus continuing the tax reductions introduced from 1 January 2022. The purpose of the temporary reductions in VAT rates on the goods in question is to stop the price increase on goods and therefore also to help combat the effects of inflation for all households in Poland, for all taxpayers, bearing in mind that really global processes affect prices in our country today. It can be assumed that reducing these VAT rates should in principle improve the quality of life of families, households in the coming months. The first anti-inflationary shield, ladies and gentlemen, has brought inflation levels up to 1 to 1.5%, as experts say. We hope that in the case of an anti-inflationary shield 2.0, which we are talking about at this point, is going to be similar. The reduction in VAT rates between 1 February and 31 July 2022, i.e. for 6 months, will result in a reduction in the revenue of the State's VAT budget by approximately PLN 11 600 million, and here I present an estimate of PLN 11 600 million. We must be aware that on the one hand this PLN 11 600 million will be part of support for all the people of our country, but let us also remember that real tax revenues will fall. Ladies and gentlemen, food and beverages currently covered by the 5% rate are proposed to cover a 0-percent rate and the losses will amount to PLN 2 920 million. This is the anticipation of food and drink. For motor fuels, i.e. diesel, biocomponents that are essential fuel, motor gasoline and liquefied gas, the rate will fall from 23 to 8%. As I said, VAT will be reduced by 15 percentage points during this period. This is a loss for the state budget at the level of PLN 3100 million. In the field of fertilisers and plant protection products, gardening land and other agricultural production aids, the growth promoters mentioned here and some substrates for cultivation, the rate will be reduced from 8 to 0%. The value of this aid will be around PLN 520 million as estimated in 2020. Support for our citizens with regard to natural gas resulting from the reduction of VAT rates to 0% it will oscillate around 2 billion - it will amount to slightly more than 2 billion PLN. In terms of electricity, there will be a decrease of up to 5%, which means the amount of PLN 2300 million. In the case of heat, the reduction in the rate will result in about PLN 670 million. And let me repeat: helping our citizens with the anti-inflationary shield 2.0 will result in a sum, ladies and gentlemen, of more than PLN 11 billion. Over PLN 11 billion our citizens will pay less in case of growth, unfortunately, the level of inflation. We hope, therefore, that this will slow down this process, which, as I said earlier, is not only dependent on internal factors, but, as indicated by the National Bank of Poland, and not only, also the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, is primarily the merit of global factors, including those I have mentioned. The most important factor for Polish inflation is the rise in prices of energy carriers, from CO2 prices to electricity prices to gas prices. What's important, ladies and gentlemen. In the proposed draft law in Art. 2 We find a provision which refers to the obligation to place at the register office the trader selling food, motor fuels or goods used for agricultural production clear information on the reduction of VAT rates corresponding to the goods which the seller is trading. This is, ladies and gentlemen, information that is to be a sure indication for citizens. It also indicates that we support the very active fight against inflation. We are not a political group that has assumed that inflation or the possibility of fighting it is something completely independent of us, so another anti-inflationary shield, called the anti-inflationary shield 2.0, has been proposed for over PLN 11 billion. We are convinced that flattens are this process and to some extent will also ease the accounts of all citizens who will be paid in our country in the coming months. It must be hoped that literally in the moment when we are dealing with the first spring months, these prices on the world markets will also fall in terms of electricity, but above all in terms of gas. This will also be an element that will cause the process to flatten and reduce inflation. What is important, ladies and gentlemen - in the proposed bill in article. 2 We find a provision which refers to the obligation to place at the register office the trader selling food, motor fuels or goods used for agricultural production clear information on the reduction of VAT rates corresponding to the goods which the seller is trading. This is, ladies and gentlemen, information that is to be a sure indication for citizens. It also indicates that we support the very active fight against inflation. We are not a political group that has assumed that inflation or the possibility of fighting it is something completely independent of us, so another anti-inflationary shield, called the anti-inflationary shield 2.0, has been proposed for over PLN 11 billion. We are convinced that flattens are this process and to some extent will also ease the accounts of all citizens who will be paid in our country in the coming months. It must be hoped that literally in the moment when we are dealing with the first spring months, these prices on the world markets will also fall in terms of electricity, but above all in terms of gas. This will also be an element that will cause the process to flatten and reduce inflation. We propose, ladies and gentlemen, in the article. 3 The entry into force of the Act on 1 February 2022, i.e. immediate action in relation to the situation which we are all observing. I cordially ask the entire High House to support this bill, because it is not an action for one or the other political party, but for the citizens of our country. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u18	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. [[Game in the O.R.]] Can I have a moment of seriousness? I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Costowniak will be the first to speak again, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice this time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u19	Thank you very much, Marshal. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to point out immediately that the Law and Justice Club will support this bill, a project which was forced by life, was forced by global processes, processes taking place in the world. During the presentation of the law itself, I spoke about external factors that today determine the level of inflation. I would like to remind all of us, although I am convinced that we all remember that the level of inflation, ladies and gentlemen, not only in Poland, but also in Europe or in the world, is de facto the highest in 30 years. The level of producer inflation not only in Europe but also in the world is also very worrying. This, unfortunately, also shows a much longer time horizon when it comes to the inflationary process. Today, we must strive for this and do everything we can to make this process as smooth as possible and thus bring about a situation in which the citizens of our country will not be very poor in a short time. What is insanely important today and what it is perhaps necessary to begin to think about, is to draw attention clearly to the European Union's climate policy. So it's about stopping what some people call insanity. It seems that this is indeed crazy for us to be the only ones in the world with a share of 7% of CO2 emissions. 8% They tried to completely change the fate of the world in terms of climate policy. I think that today, both for us and for Europe, it is an attempt to extort, extort, negotiate a climate package, but for the world, including India, China, Brazil, the United States and Russia. It is not about us taking as the European Union, including Poland, solely or above all the responsibility to take care of the climate in the world. Let me remind you that over 70% our electricity comes, ladies and gentlemen, from coal production, which is now covered by ETS. It's kind of crazy. We all see an increase in emissions prices reaching more than 90% today. You should be aware that the huge costs for this, over PLN 30 billion per year, are borne by the Polish state. Let us not hide, ladies and gentlemen, that this will significantly reduce the competitiveness of the Polish economy at a time when the CO2 levy will be even higher, as the Brussels officials have announced. The draft law explicitly refers to the reduction of VAT rates for the most important goods for each citizen. Of course, when it comes to the more affluent, it is likely that in their shopping baskets and the structures of the money spent is a much smaller amount. I'm talking about food, fuel. However, this is of great importance for citizens with lower or even medium income. Today, every dollar will be of great importance to us in terms of spending it. Therefore, another of the elements that support very strongly not only the least-earning groups in Poland, but also the average is the support of the policy related to the law commonly referred to as the Anti-Inflationary Law 2.0. We take on our commitment as politicians - I hope that the opposition will help us as well - as those who are the creators of certain processes. We do not accept the situation in which we can say: it is completely independent of us. And if we had that proverbial button, we'd press it all the time. We do not want such a policy, we did not agree with such a policy, so we presented this bill as a project to support it. Of course, it will not solve all the problems. We are aware that we will not solve all the problems associated with the inflationary process, but this is to be a very clear support for the people of our country. Thus, the Law and Justice Club, as I said, will vote in favour of this bill. More than PLN 11 600 million will not come out, ladies and gentlemen, from our pockets, from individual households in Poland. Polish taxpayers will not pay that much money. We hope that this will help in a very powerful way to survive this difficult time, difficult not only for Poland, but also for the world economy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u20	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mrs Krystyna Sibinska to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civil Coalition. [[Game in the O.R.]] And if you'll please sign up...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about a project that's two months late today. Prime Minister Donald Tusk already on 29 October Ub. R. urged such action. What did Prime Minister Morawiecki say then? He said that it was impossible to introduce zero food rates, and it turned out that he had not even submitted an application to the European Commission. Since you've been waiting so long, you could have prepared a government project with a full impact analysis, because there's a lot of doubt. The projected drop in revenue is PLN 11.6 billion. However, there is no information on the reduction of expenditure. Where's the budget correction? That's where you put 3-3% inflation. The increase in the deficit and the additional inflationary pressure will be obvious. This is not an anti-inflationary action, because as an anti-inflationary action it had to be introduced earlier, before the crazy inflation rate, as reported by the CSO on 7 January, increased to 8.6%. This is the highest index in 22 years. This led to an increase in food prices in December by 8.6%. - in November there were 6.4% more then you had to react - and energy carriers about 14.3%. It's a temporary solution for six months. What about after July 31st? The transitional VAT reduction will not reduce prices permanently. And in six months' time, prices can go up to a level higher than they currently are. According to the applicants in the justification for the project, the purpose of temporarily reducing VAT is to stop price increases. VAT is not the only component, and for some businesses it is a neutral tax. All other production costs will increase. Saving yourself from the effects of what you noisyly call order, and what is de facto a complete mess, entrepreneurs can raise margins and these margins can stay even after July 31st. What's your prescription for that? Isn't that what you're thinking? Because the Prime Minister has already taken care of his loved ones. First he bought a priceless plot from the Church, signed it up for his wife, and then the wife sold it for 14 million PLN at the end of last year. Is it so you don't pay 9% of your health contributions this year? Is there any action-evacuating to the tax paradise? [[Applause]] The Prime Minister also took care of his own in KPRM, introducing earnings without a limit. To paraphrase the government's spokesman for the right past: the government will protect itself, and you, countryman, enjoy the New Deal. The project we're talking about today doesn't eliminate the causes of inflation, it only works on symptoms, and it's only temporary. Let me repeat: this is not a real anti-inflationary effect. We're about to have another shield, then a shield to the shield and a shield to the next shield. You're gonna loop in those shields. The result will be poorer and the citizens - poorer and poorer. How will the reduced VAT rate be translated into gas and energy into specific customers? Will the state giants lower their prices? Many citizens, entrepreneurs have been billed several hundred percent higher. It is not clear that a temporary reduction in VAT will guarantee a fall in prices. This will certainly not be guaranteed by the information on the invoices and receipts referred to in Article. 2. This article is some kind of psychic. The obligation to include information about the VAT reduction is probably intended only to improve the well-being of Prime Minister Morawiecki, because he so good and gracious, reduced VAT, and if anything, the traders and traders will be responsible for the cost - according to PiS smart people and speculators. I'm curious about the pattern of this information. Will the PiS logo be there? Will it be known that Matthew the gracious Morawiecki did this to us? [[Applause]] Like I said before, it's not a real anti-inflationary shield. It's just powdering the mess you caused. We agree to this poor makeup because we need to save our fellow citizens. The people - as Prime Minister Morawiecki often says - expect this mess to be cleaned up and protected. And for this, we need urgent preparation of a real strategy for combating inflation, unlocking EU funds, i.e. fulfilling the recommendations of the European Commission... [[Voice from the room: We act really well.]] ...the allocation of funds from the sale of CO2 allowances to energy transformation, which will reduce the price of energy in the future, the suspension of the minimum per year of burdens for entrepreneurs resulting from the so-called. Polish Governance, which will avoid additional increases in prices of goods and services in uncertain times of pandemics and high inflation, and ensure a stable legal environment for business, which will increase the record low level of investment and strengthen the foundations of the economy, providing the basis for long-term development. This should be the real action to protect citizens Not the temporary powdering of your mess. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u22	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Tomasz Trela to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was hoping, like my colleagues from the Left, that Mr Morawiecki would be in this debate and this discussion, because yesterday the Prime Minister was so eager to present in PowerPoint all these slides, these reductions, these benefits to the citizens. But when we look at the bill, we see that it's not a government bill. It is a law which is signed by Members. I tried to read who signed up for this project, but Mr Morawiecki's signature is not here. So the question is, is this really something that the Law and Justice government is doing, or did a group of Members get a project and sign it on their knees? Because the project is written quickly, little syntax and actually far too late. When the Left, last year, talked about rising inflation, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki went out and said: "They scream again, they scare again, nothing bad happens." At the end of October, when the Left politicians proposed our anti-inflationary shield with tax cuts, Mateusz Morawiecki said that we were safe, that the government was in control of everything, he prepared a draft budget in which inflation was supposed to be 3 percentage points. I'd like to give you some information. These are the data of the National Bank of Poland, which is very late here, late when it comes to reactions and actions. 8 March 2021, forecast inflation for 2022.2,8%. On 12 July 2021, forecast inflation for 2022.3,3%. On 8 November 2021, forecast inflation for 2022, 5.8%. Yesterday Mateusz Morawiecki comes out and says inflation will be 8%. And there's 3% in the budget. Prime Minister, can you deceive Poles and Poles every day? Can you tell them it's gonna be 25 degrees tomorrow, as you know it's gonna be 0 degrees tomorrow? After all, some basic decency dictates that in relation to citizens who work hard every day to tie ends to ends, to tell them how it really is. And we have no doubt that there would be no anti-inflationary shield 2.0 if it were not for the great Polish shaft, which was to be the great Polish Łady since 1 January. You totally failed, totally compromised yourselves, and now you're trying to powder something and make our country's citizens think it's better. So I want to quote you and show you two more things. One and a half. Mrs. Justyna's month of heating, an entrepreneur from Siedlec, had to pay 10,000. zloty gas bill. For almost the same consumption needed to heat a 110-metre-long space, it has so far paid 3,000. zł. Prime Minister, show me one recipe in this project that will allow Mrs Justyna not to pay 300%. More for the gas. There's no such rule. [[But what is this project talking about, do you know?]] Next thing you know, invoices. It's an invoice. For the gas of the Łódź school. So far for 2 months on average 400 PLN, from 1 January 600 PLN, 50% More. Will the temporary tax reduction allow this school to make ends meet so that the Łódź government can make ends meet? Absolutely not. If Prime Minister Morawiecki were honest and if he were honest about the matter, apart from the anti-inflationary shield - which should be prepared actually in October and should be prepared by the government, by experts, here should be analyses - this package should be accompanied by PLN 270 billion from the European Union for the National Reconstruction Plan. It would be a mechanism that would really work on households, entrepreneurs, self-government. One more thing, one last thing. Who, and on what basis, said that six months, from 1 February to 31 July, would cure the situation of our citizens? Who said that after this six months, from August 1st, the situation would not be worse? Who today will guarantee that the temporary reduction - for six months - of fuel prices to PLN 5.20 will not cause that from August 1 this fuel will not cost PLN 6 but will cost e.g. 7 zloty? Where is Prime Minister Morawiecki, who will come out and say: I guarantee you today that after six months the situation will be healed? The Prime Minister isn't here because he's a notorious professional cheater. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Behave yourself.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[To the ethics committee. You're the one who should...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u24	Please allow anyone to comment on the position of the parliamentary club. The Member will take the floor. I will make you as much comfort as any other Member. [[But that's not the point. Mr. Marshal, may I make a formal request?]] No, my fellow Member. [[And why can't I make a formal request?]] I would now ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk to present the position of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition of Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! What are Poles and Poles really up against today? Oil - an increase of 79%, sugar - an increase of 59%, butter - 34%, meat - almost 30%. These are products that meet basic needs. [[Voice from the room: Where did you get this data?]] Mr PiS is not nervous because, you can see, the truth hurts and produces emotion. Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS! You can't patch a cougar made from a sturdy fabric with the same fabric. And what you're offering to Poles and Poles today is a bit similar. The inflation exposed the whole truth about the PiS government, because when there are real problems, you can't run away from them with PR. I agree with the thesis that came out here today, that's no solution. The Polish Coalition Club, which I have the pleasure of representing in this debate, already weeks ago called on the Prime Minister, the government, to act. What did we hear then? It's okay. It's too soon. The famous quote by Prime Minister Sasin - for the second time from this place worth mentioning after a few weeks - state Treasury companies will not be affected by inflation, price increases. Scandal, it's not okay to do this today. The scandal is also the absence of representatives of the Ministry or the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister today in the debate on this project, de facto on the issue of inflation. It seems to me today that we are going towards a strategy that has already taken place very often in this room a year ago, i.e. shields 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, which in fact did not give much. This case shows that the structures of the country managed for more than 6 years by the PiS are not capable of facing the crisis today. The example that must sound in this debate today concerns food security of Poles and Poles. Prices of fertilisers - 2 million t of fertilisers are needed in Poland to ensure the proper functioning of commodity farms. An extreme incompetence is the proposal you are making to farmers today. How is the reduction of VAT for agricultural holdings that today, when it comes to these goods, help us to deduct VAT? Today I ask Mr Costowniak as the representative of the applicants... He's not here today, he's not here now, that means something too. Please tell us how the reduction in VAT is supposed to relieve farms today faced with a 300-, 400-percent increase in the price of fertilisers. After all, the VAT reduction will have no meaning, this VAT is deducted by agricultural holdings, and the prices of fertilisers - it must be said in the interest not only of farmers but also of ensuring food security throughout Poland - this is today a bomb with delayed ignition. Farmers are already saying more and more today that they will not be able to afford to fertilize their crops in the spring. Do you know what this means, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS? There'll be less food. If there's less food, what happens to prices next year? [[It's gonna be more cost-effective.]] Vegetables, fruits, flour - prices will rise or have to be imported. So think well today, ladies and gentlemen, about what you are proposing here today, because this is really a spit in the face of many Poles, these proposals late and (the bell) completely ineffective. On the example of artificial fertilisers to you from this place again today on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club, PSL I say this. The Polish Coalition Club will consider this project, but today we see its lateness and shortcomings in terms of its solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u26	Thank you very much. Before I ask the members of the Confederate Group to speak, with a formal request, Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u27	Thank you. Dear Marshal, I would like to ask you formally to change the conduct of the discussion and to draw your marshal's attention to the fact that the Member who spoke to Mr Pasyk here has violated the dignity of others, that this should not be the case during such an important debate. Today we are debating a very important issue, which is important for millions of Poles in a situation of rising inflation, and here, instead of a substantive debate, there has been an invective. Marshal, I am asking you to address this statement to the Committee on the Ethics of the European Union, because this is a violation of the good name of the Sejm, a violation of the good name of the Prime Minister of our government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The Prime Minister deserved it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u28	Thank you very much, Commissioner, for this proposal. I would now like to ask Mr Arthur Dziambor, who, together with Mr Krzysztof Bosak, will present - both gentlemen - the position of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u29	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I was gonna say, like fear, it's to the Confederacy. It is, of course, very nice that you are reading at least our laws, because we have so far been convinced that as you can see that the Confederation is reporting something, it is immediately someone there with you, who manages the votes, says: against. That's nice. That's very nice. Let's get to the details. VAT on food - 0%. This is the idea of the Confederation of Anti-Inflationary Shields, which we announced in November this year. We're very pleased that you'll want to make it happen. Reduction of VAT on fuel. Our idea of a cheap fuel, which lies, lies with your marshals and waits. We're really glad you guys want to take advantage of this. Let me just point out that the Sejm Analysis Office stated that this is not in line with the EU VAT Directive. But if you want to respect this EU VAT directive, the Confederation will be happy to join. Reduction of VAT on electricity. We offered zero, you offered five. And that's the downside. It's still nice that you're reading. But I'd suggest we move on. Elimination of the issue fee, elimination of the fuel levy, elimination of a dozen taxes, which we also have included in our inflation shield, including my favorite sugar tax. This is one of the ideas I would like you to read with understanding and acceptance as well. By the way, I'd like you to take these ideas forever. Not for three months, five months, six months, forever. Poles should be taxed on a large scale. This is what I wish to you, to us and to all our listeners. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Bosak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Consumer inflation in December was 8.6 percentage points and this is one of the highest indications that frightens everyone who has to build whether it's domestic budgets or corporate budgets. Therefore, it is not surprising that the government has reached for the Confederacy's ideas for tax reduction. Yes, thank you for granting us the right. Indeed, failure to raise taxes can result in lower price increases. We are sorry that the government has pursued counter-policy for the last 7 years and has told the public that it is possible to raise taxes constantly and at the same time to maintain control over inflation. These are our proposals, you bring them in temporarily, you treat the symptoms, not the reasons, the shifting back in time - that's what all the experts say - the distribution of inflation. What else can you do? Do not implement the provisions of the European Green Deal, which will raise prices. Do not implement Fit for 55. Get out of the license system. And then eliminate the following taxes. Fuel fee - lower it. Liquidation of the issue fee, elimination of the civil law tax, elimination of the sugar tax, elimination of the reserve charge, elimination of the capacity charge (the bell), elimination of the transitional fee, elimination of the repregraphic fee, elimination of the water levy, elimination of the entry fee in the BDO register, elimination of the environmental charge, elimination of the transport tax, elimination of the trade mark fee, elimination of the spa charge, elimination of the local charge, elimination of the dog tax. [[The liquidation of the state budget.]] [[The liquidation of the state.]] With all these taxes, income is ridiculously low, it complicates people's lives. Eliminate it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u32	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u33	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Well, as you could see, one month after the first anti-inflationary shield, you have to correct your own mistakes. From the beginning we said that the shield would be ineffective, because it is simply too cheap and as a result the impact on the reduction in inflation was probably up to 0.5%. and inflation continues to grow due to other factors that affect it. This second anti-inflationary shield will, of course, be more effective. We estimate that a little over 1.5% it will reduce global price increases. However, these measures will not solve the problems of a rugged economy and galloping prices. We estimate that the average annual inflation rate this year, even taking into account this inflation, will be up to 7% and it will continue to be an unacceptable level for Polish and Polish wallets, but also for economic wallets, because it will project on the discomfort of our lives. The wage-price spiral is already noticeable - and unfortunately without other government actions it will continue to get excited. Of course, we have the biggest problem, the problem of rising gas prices, which can, let's face it, kill small businesses, and people often cry. As long as we have a bill this afternoon - here on the agenda - to reach out to those individuals who have received the highest price increases on gas bills, you have not prepared for the companies anything at all. And the truth is, it's gonna cost you bread for this, that they're gonna cost catering services, that they're gonna cost you a vacation, because the gas-heated hotels are just gonna raise their prices. And in many other places, this level of gas prices, if not controlled, will increase other prices. What do you have to do? This is what we have been saying for a long time: to strengthen the zloty, to restore investor confidence in Poland, to limit Galloping debt growth, especially debt outside the budget. An increase of 1/3 of public debt over the last 2 years is something that could not have had an effect on inflation, especially since this debt has been concentrated by the central bank in principle unfoundedly. Prime Minister Morawiecki must finally fulfill his promise. He spoke out loud about modernising the economy, about changing the economy to new tracks, about increasing production productivity. Meanwhile, the average rate (the Bell) of investment in the European Union is 22% and we are 17%. The goal of Prime Minister Morawiecki was 25%. Without increasing the efficiency of our economy, with avalanchely rising labour costs, the introduction of all these taxes, taxes, taxation of labour, taxation of production with successive positions, inflation will always occur and prices will rise. Of course, there must also be an energy transformation, spending resources on CO2 for what you should do. And one final question to the Minister: Is someone in the government leaning down and calculating the risk of a debt crisis? It is an extremely important element, which is not at all by the government at this point, at least publicly, taken. Does anyone calculate how the increase in interest rates will affect debt management of loans, including mortgages by citizens, and to what extent it can lead is it for the crisis not only in the loan and loan market, but also for real estate? Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Mr Robert Kwiatkowski. We are in favour of further work in the commission on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u34	I ask Mr Robert Kwiatkowski to present the position of the Polish Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is of course extremely necessary, because over PLN 11.5 billion in Poles' pockets in a situation of galloping inflation is probably some relief, but after all, High Izbo, this document, this presentation is a kind of a vote of distrust towards the President of the National Bank of Poland. I would like to think about this topic for a moment, starting with a quote from our constitution. Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1 says this: The National Bank of Poland is responsible for the value of Polish money. How is it responsible for this value? How's he doing? He's trying so hard to get inflation up to 8%. , the budget records, unfortunately adopted by this House by a majority, speak of fictitious 3% inflation, which is contradicted by the President of the Council of Ministers himself. In the meantime, I will repeat once again: The National Bank of Poland is responsible for the value of Polish money. This is, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, a vote of distrust against the President of the Central Bank, and I hope that the President's officials, who will decide in a few months to recommend this or another official as President of the National Bank of Poland, will take this into account. The central bank simply fails to fulfil its responsibilities, and that is the only reason why we have this submission. We must consider a law which, as I said, is good in my intentions, but as it happens in life, good intentions are hell paved, because this law clajstrates individual fragments of Polish economic reality. It has already been pointed out here that this law is clearly limited in time. I wanted to repeat the question, which already here, in this room, sounded: What after August 1st? What will happen after August 1 when this bill, if it passes, loses its power? This money will flow because Polish farms will live better? Finally, this has also been highlighted, how does this apply to European regulations? Are we facing another lawsuit and trial before the Court of Justice of the European Union? Because such a rapid and radical reduction in VAT on fuel is clearly contrary to European regulations and legislation, which even the initiators of this law point out in their justification. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This means that the Polish Parliament will adopt a law which it already knows is contrary to European Union legislation? If this isn't taking Poland out of the Union, then what is it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u36	Thank you very much. This concludes the introduction of clubs and circles and begins with a series of questions. The first question will be asked by Mrs Anna Paluch of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. And I'm telling you, I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. [[Voice from the room: There is no room, next.]] If not, it is Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the room: There is no room, next.]] Thank you for your cooperation, but I can also identify it. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about what instruments the government wants to use to actually stop price increases. After all, it is no secret that the net price, i.e. without VAT, is regulated by the seller of the services or the goods concerned. We can therefore announce today that we are reducing final prices by 23%, but what guarantee do we have that the seller will not increase net prices and will not sell these goods more expensive? And the second thing is, what will happen after five months? After all, after 5 months, after this VAT will return to normal levels, we should expect a shocking rise in prices again. Has the government conducted any analyses in this regard? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u38	Thank you very much. Late Mr Michael Szczerba. Then, if Mr Czesław Siekierski permits, then...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u39	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We all know how we started this year. Poles and Poles in the accounts saw in particular information about increases in energy prices. The Civic Coalition has been alerting for a whole month. We were hitting the alarm, we were saying expensive. You said: it's not a problem, the Poles can handle it. Today, action is being taken - late actions, ad hoc actions - but also, let's face it, extreme poverty is growing in Poland. That's 1%. when it comes to the age group of the elderly. But what hits seniors the most? Untruth and lie - the lie of President Kaczyński, who during the election campaign said: there will be 14 permanent pensions. Today, the Minister of Finance confirms that there will be no 14th pension. I will say more: there will be no 13th pension (the bell) because the 13th pension will eat inflation. [[Voice from the room: 'Cause you want to take her.]] [[That's a question, I guess.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These actions are late, that's a reaction. You should have listened to us a lot earlier. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! In an extremely difficult situation there are mass caterers: schools, hospitals, welfare homes or dairy bars. What form of assistance is envisaged in order to maintain the proper functioning of these institutions? Because we know how it translates, what is the situation of the institutions that finance it. Second question. It's about poor people, unemployed people, people with disabilities. They're the ones they're most affected by. Therefore, they also require a different form of support, apart from these blurry forms, in terms of VAT reduction. Finally, the problem of loan instalments with rising interest rates. Finally, the situation of farmers. If we do not use special forms of support for farmers (the bell) in terms of means of production, we will have food security at a disadvantage and this cost will only give us inflation. So all of this requires a look and just an amendment of the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u42	Thank you very much. I do not see Mr Konrad Berkowicz in the room. I would therefore like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon. I can't see either. [[I'm here, I'm here.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u43	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I think it is worth reminding that already in October 2050 Poland presented the so-called. Five Holovni, i.e. five concrete solutions for stopping the cost, helping people, support at this difficult time. Some of these proposals are being implemented by the government today. That's a good thing, of course, but, Minister, why did the government delay so many months of concrete action, allowing people to be poor? It's really unbelievable that the government hasn't taken advantage of these ideas before. He didn't think about it himself, and he waited so long. You guys should really get better. We propose a reduction of VAT to 27% on a permanent basis, while the government proposes a temporary reduction. [[27?]] This means that the cost will strike people once again, except that when education begins - in September. Minister! Is it okay that you suspend this tax only for a short time (the bell) and then hit people with this expensive hit when they need support most, which is September, when children go to school? Is that okay? Are you guys okay with this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u44	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bartus will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u45	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The fact that it's expensive doesn't mean you have to scream from the platform. We all know that because it's true. [[Voice from the room: Everyone feels it.]] On the other hand, I thank the Minister of Finance for the fact that, as Law and Justice, we can come out with this VAT reduction law even to 0. Yes, thank you. Without the Minister's approval, we couldn't go out with such a bill because it's known that it's hitting the state budget very hard. Therefore, I thank you for the fact that, as far as our state budget is concerned, despite the fight on the part of the European Union, despite the fact that we do not have the advance that we deserve, which the Union should pay us, even though we are exposed to speculation that results from Russia's efforts in the energy market, we can afford to (the bell) allow ourselves to try to relieve Poles. Question to the Minister: How can we ensure real reductions? It is also about food prices, and it is about making these fertilisers very expensive for farmers - which is also very striking - just cheaper. The point is not only that it will not affect VAT, but also that it will really relieve Poles and that inflation will really decrease. Are the actions so far effective? Can we hope that these actions that we are taking under this law will have a positive effect on people? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[No.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u46	Thank you very much. I would like to say to Mrs Skowronska that this question was not addressed to Mrs Skowronska. I would like to ask Maria Margaret Janyska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is good that you finally listened to Donald Tusk - only a pity that with a 2-month delay - which 2 months ago called for a reduction in VAT rates. [[Who?]] We would avoid a drastic increase in inflation in December, in terms of food, to 8.6%. , and energy carriers, to a level of 14,3%. I have a question for the representative of the applicants: What is the value in the project for the flattening of inflation that is required to include information at the cash register and in the VAT reduced accounts? Maybe you don't know that the applicable VAT rates are being programmed in fiscal cash registers and are visible on receipts. Or maybe you know, and on purpose, rather I bet this option, you want to point to a very high level of prices, which is as it was in the Polish People's Republic - the speculator. You want to show that the seller and the service provider are responsible for this level of prices (the bell), and pretend that you do not know that the level of demand and supply relations and the level of costs are responsible for this level. Or maybe in a moment you'll set up inspections of workers and boys like the Polish People's Republic, because mentally and administratively you're stuck in this era, and they'll check out speculators and report that there was soup powder under the counter, because that's what happened. in the Polish People's Republic. Thank you very much. I have another question, last question, Mr. Marshal, to the representative of the applicants. You said you were convinced that you were gonna flatten the inflation process. I ask you to prove this on specific prognostic data, because your conviction is absolutely not convincing me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u48	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Costowniak. There isn't. Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! According to the Central Statistical Office, December's inflation was 8.6% by December. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important what the opinion of Poles is. According to the research, inflation felt by Poles is more than 27%. You have to be aware of that, because it comes from specific research. I'm going to ask you a question. The introduction of a zero VAT rate on food, unfortunately, I am very sorry, will not have the expected effect if additional support tools for food manufacturers are not applied. The prices are gonna go up. Here is an example: producers of bread, or an article that is most often bought by Poles. In the case of producers (the bell), i.e. bakers, this is a sixfold increase in production costs. If VAT is 0% This increase will be four times. How much will a loaf of bread cost, and what other help will the bakers receive so that they do not have to raise this price of bread so much? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u50	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project involves reducing the VAT rate from 8% to 0% for the purchase of gas. This is the right thing to do if the European Union agrees to do so. On the other hand, the assumption that this will solve the problem of Polish citizens and citizens facing monstrous increases in gas introduced by PGNiG, amounting to several hundred percent - 600-900% for companies, 80% for customers in residential premises. The rapporteur justifies these gigantic increases, which have not yet been the case on the European market. It's lying because gas prices went up in December. on the European market, but since the beginning of January they have fallen. This is the biggest drop in seven years. And he doesn't find that inheritance... The price of 1 MWh on the Dutch futures market (Bell), which is a guideline for the purchase of gas in Poland, decreased by 30% in the last 8 days. It does not find any reflection in the activities of the Energy Regulatory Office, which 3 weeks ago introduced a price list, which at the moment frightens Polish and Polish people and causes many business activities to be closed. And that's a real problem, not an 8% reduction in VAT per 5 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Galemba.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u53	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! When I listen to what the opposition says, it scares me. This is a very good bill that I signed off on, and you're denying a lot of facts. After all, it is the Government of Law and Justice that listens to Poles and solves their problems immediately. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, President of Jarosław Kaczyński - we do everything we can to relieve Poles. I have a question for the opposition, which was and is companyed by Donald Tusk. Does the government have buttons? Low prices, high prices. What did Donald Tusk say? If he had these buttons, he'd react. [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] The Law and Justice government has these buttons and reacts. It reduces all taxes, especially on food. [[Applause]] This is the success of our government and Poles will thank us for it. And you want to deny it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why? Why are you so naive? You don't want to help the Poles and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u54	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First, I would like to ask myself why Mr Mateusz Morawiecki started reducing VAT from lying - a lie that he cannot reduce VAT to food because the European Union does not agree. Let us recall: he spoke about it when he had not asked the European Commission at all. But I wanted to say two things. One: note that NBP is responsible for inflation to a large extent. I wanted to ask you what is the situation in which we see that what is the decision is a mistake in Mr. Glapiński's case, you think of him for a second term. If someone makes mistakes, maybe it's time he stopped being president of the National Bank of Poland? On the other hand, Poles pay a lot for your impudence, and you like to burn their money very much for it. We already pay PLN 550 million for penalties under TSUE judgments, 80 million PLN cost us caracale, which we did not order. Next money: remember Ostrołęka - 1500 million PLN. But there's something else I'd like to tell you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Interestingly, everyone's getting worse, but KPRM's getting better. From PLN 141 to PLN 831 million per year. And extras without restrictions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u56	Mr Adrian Zandberg will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u57	High Izbo! This is the solution for a few months, and my question is, what's next? What about July when the shield ends? You said this inflation was cost-effective, that it came from abroad. Okay. So what will the government do if the high prices abroad last longer than the spring? There is no answer to that in this bill. The Prime Minister is afraid that big companies will now take advantage of the opportunity and raise the margin. And he's right to be scared because that might happen, but I have a question about where there are tools in this bill that will help it, because I just don't see them in this bill. Where is consumer protection? Where is the strengthening of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection? Where are the anti-monopoly activities here? This is not there, and the begging requests of the Prime Minister to the corporation - I have bad information for you - will not touch anyone there. We need, ladies and gentlemen, and that is what we need immediately, a shield for the workers. Today, the entire budget is powerless to look at it (the bell) as their salaries devour the cost. We warned you about when you wrote an unrealistic budget last year. This was warned by left-wing relationships with OPZZ. You didn't listen to us, you took the lunar indicators, and now the bill is being paid by a private employee. Ladies and gentlemen, today, the most expensive hits the least-earned workers, their households. It's where the bills hurt the most, it's where the rising food prices hurt the most. The underpaid minimum wage has simply been eaten by the cost and it must change, and it will change immediately. So my question to the government: When do you realize the wages in the budget, when do you have a shield for the employees? That's what we need right now. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Noblechta. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u59	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Members of Law and Justice have submitted a bill whose effects are to help thousands of Poles in a dynamic growth of inflation not only in Poland, because inflation is a global phenomenon, widespread worldwide. This law is another step in the area of tax reduction. The previous government decisions on tax reduction covered 18 million Poles, which leaves 17 billion PLN in the pocket of citizens. So we have another bill to help Poles in these difficult conditions. And I have a question for the government representative: What government decisions so far to reduce taxes result in a total loss of tax revenue to the state budget? Let me remind you that we have reduced the general tax (the bell) from 18% to 17%, the free amount has increased to 30,000. zł. It all generates a reduction in influence, but we did it so that Poles could live in these difficult conditions better. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u61	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This bill is a delayed-fire bomb, because there's no reason to kid yourself that for a while, for six months, these prices will be stopped, because let's not pretend that they're gonna fall, because they're not gonna fall. But, my dear Minister, honourable Members of the PiS, because you are the applicants, because you are not the Ministry or the Prime Minister, what in June? What are you gonna do with this crazy inflation? After all, this inflation, there's no reason to cheat, it's not gonna fall or stop in June, it's gonna continue to grow. And this bill is only for a little while, this bill is only for six months. What are you going to do next? Will people continue to fight this cost, to face this cost? We look forward to a comprehensive solution and we as the Civic Coalition offer such comprehensive solutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u62	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u63	Dear Marshal, High Seym! PLN 11 600 million less for the budget, so much more will remain in the pockets of Poles. The Prime Minister has already announced that thanks to the VAT reduction the fuel prices at petrol stations will fall and the fuel will cost about 5 PLN. The prices of other energy products will also fall. I have a question to the government: Does the government have the calculations that all these tax reduction activities will have to do with inflation over this six-month period, where the law is expected to apply and lower prices, VAT reductions, and later (the bell), after August, which the opposition is very worried about? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u64	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Barbara Dolniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not return to my previous term of office, but if we look at the current one, we will see that the rulers, the majority of the parliament, are constantly improving something. The project influences, and in a moment it turns out that it has gaps, errors, irregularities, has not resolved many topics that should be resolved in this project. This is a chaotic job, and yet you have full technical and legal service and should prepare meaningful projects. Projects are unprepared, are introduced without any strategy, without concept, contain legal gaps, holes. How can a citizen find himself in all this when one day he learns that something has been passed and in a day or two he hears that it must be corrected and changed? I also have a question as to how you foreseen the budget coverage of the drop in income due to the fact that we are reducing VAT in this law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] After all, the budget provides for specific objectives for which this money will be allocated. How do you intend to implement them? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u66	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski. Well, maybe before the Member gets together... [[If you don't know what to ask...]] ...I'd like to ask Mr Konrad Frysztak? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Oh, I see.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u67	I'm sorry, but I was at a committee meeting and I ran here from this meeting. Ladies and gentlemen! When I hear the statements of the opposition - starting with the first speech by the representative of the Civic Coalition, which spoke about powdering - it can be said that it amazes me how little economic knowledge is and also historical about inflation in Poland. Let me remind you that inflation from take-off after systemic changes in 1990 was 585% , and then - after very drastic reforms of Leszek Balcerowicz - in 1991 reached 70% , in 1995 - 27% , 1996 - 19%. And then no one thought about how to compensate citizens for such drastic changes, because it all reduced citizens' incomes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is an immediate reaction, and you're saying it's a powder. So what did you propose when inflation was 5% under Donald Tusk's government and you increased VAT? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u68	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Konrad Frysztak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u69	Minister! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the PiS equals the cost, we know that. We know that Poles today are simply drawn money from their wallets, what the government is earning, because the increase in VAT for each product is undoubtedly about the income of the Polish country, the Polish government. Ladies and gentlemen, today I am addressing the Radomian, Mr Radosław Fogel: Mr Fogel - you boasted that you were a baker, you spoke about it in interviews - I would like to ask you, in some way, how you can look the Radoms in the eyes of your neighbours from Radom Glinic, from the street. Złota, z ul. Slovaks, who have ever more and more increases in bread prices. The flour has been spent year to year by 100% There are several hundred percent increases in gas prices, electricity. When will you respond? When will the bread be 8 PLN each, 10 PLN each, 12 PLN each? Your actions are delayed. Everything you do to fight the cost is delayed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How will you look into the eyes and answer all these problems of Poles, including Radomians? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[This bill is the answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u70	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Voice from the room: But where? Where?]] [[Voices from the hall: In the store. In the store.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The equivalent of approx. 2 l of diesel is needed to feed one man a day. To ensure this amount of energy, it is mostly purchased in the form of not only oil but also gas. Is the government planning any action to reduce the amount of this energy... [[You don't know?]] ...in transport, though? In the European Union, we transport food in cars with a total weight of more than 3.5 t over a distance of 178 km, while on average for all goods it is 50 km. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a large reserve in terms of reducing food costs, but in the longer term. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski will ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! A moment ago, a Member from Łódź representing the PiS spoke about the fact that the opposition does not understand economics. And it is you, the authors of this project, who speak from this speaker: we hope, we think, about the project that is going to bring down inflation. [[Applause]] You do, and you should know. [[We're convinced.]] You should know this is not an anti-inflationary project. Yes, it is shielded, so we will support it, and it helps Poles survive the fact that you are stealing from them. [[Applause]] You're robbing at least 10% by inflationary tax. It is sheltered, supports Poles, but do not deceive Poles, it will not cause inflation to decrease either now or in half a year, especially since it will end in a moment. Stop lying, have the courage to talk about how you can't fix it, and you don't know how to solve the problem of ongoing inflation and expensive. [[How can you rob someone by giving him 17 million?]] Be honest with the citizens. I urge you not to lie. [[We're cutting taxes. That's bad, too.]] [[The opposition flew away in detail.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u74	Thank you very much. Now, please, Mr Marcin Porzuck.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u75	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, the opposition tried - inefficiently and informally - to present its comments in the form of a dissertation. The first sentence said that inflation is a global problem. Yeah, that's right. It is true that inflation is a global problem. We see this, for example, on the example of our Western neighbours, the strongest economy of the European Union, Germany. I wanted to ask, is the fact that inflation has been the highest in Germany for 30 years due to the mistakes of Chancellor Merkel, or is it the mistakes of the Minister of Finance of a long time, and today the successor chancellor, Mr. Olaf Scholz? Do these invectives that you're heading towards our government also apply to people from the German government? [[Voice from the room: How much?]] Do you have any positive ideas? Let me remind you: thanks to the fact that we will reduce VAT on fuel by several percentage points, prices will fall to the level of approx. 5 PLN per litre. Is it true that fuel in Poland (The Bell) after these changes will have the lowest price in the European Union? Why, 10 years ago, in the days of Donald Tusk, when Minister Leszczyna was also in the Ministry of Finance, did you not reduce either excise duty or VAT? You had the same tools. Why didn't you do it at a time when the Poles made almost twice as much money? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u76	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Isabella Leszczyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr Porzucek should read a few things to himself. Firstly, Mr President, inflation in Germany is twice as low as in Poland. Secondly, inflation in Donald Tusk's time was twice as low as it is now. It was even lower - we had deflation for several years. [[How much was the fuel?]] [[Seven zlotys each.]] Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This project... [[Don't brag about the inflation. It's a tragedy for the economy.]] Please make it possible for you to speak. This project proves that the PiS is beginning to listen to the Civic Coalition and the President of the Civic Platform. Good. Unfortunately, it also proves that he listens selectively, only takes what suits him. It only treats the effects without affecting the causes of inflation at all. I will repeat to you what I said a month ago: to combat inflation effectively and permanently, Poland needs European Union funds and private investment. Only then can we create a low-carbon, innovative and therefore competitive economy. I'll tell you again something you don't understand. Free courts are needed, [[♪ The bell ♪]] rule of law, respect for human and citizen rights, [[Applause]] not eavesdropping on the opposition. Mr. Marshal, excuse me, five seconds, please. [[Brilliant.]] It is symbolic that the PiS government, in this important debate, represents the minister of Gojny, who, as the director of the tax administration, violated the discipline of public finances, put the Treasury at risk and became Deputy Minister of Finance as a reward. This is typical of your government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u78	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec. There isn't. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u79	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, A dedication for authors and for the government. You can feed people with lies, but you can't live with them. This is the whole truth about your government. [[Voice from the room: True.]] For the last 7 years, you have declared that you will reduce VAT to 22%. You took 60 billion PLN from the Poles' pockets. [[Who picked it up?]] The government was asleep and inflation was rising. Today you have awakened and this awakening is very sad. Gas prices for entrepreneurs increased by 450%, artificial fertiliser prices for farmers increased by 300%. Kowalski also touched the rise in gas prices. That's what entrepreneurs write about, that's what farmers write about. I have a question for the Minister. If he's able to answer, I'm asking for a written reply. How much will the bread cost? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much will the fertilizer cost? How much will the real reduction referred to in this Act be for an entrepreneur whose gas prices have increased by 450% or 500% ? It's a slice. There's one more thing I want to say to you. My card's missing. What you're doing isn't gonna make people have more money. This is a transitional project. Lying is a snow globe. The longer it spins, the bigger it gets. Remember that. [[Applause]] [[The platform knows this best, Mrs Pierce.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u80	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Dolata.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Who raised VAT to 23%?]] The inflation during the Platform's reign in 2008 was 4.2% , 2009 - 3.5% , in 2010 - 2,6% , in 2011 - 4,3%, in 2012 - 3,7%. During the rule of law and justice in 2016, there was a deflation, a decrease of 0.6%. , in 2017 - 2% , in 2018 - 1,6% , in 2019 - 2,3%, in 2020 - 3,4%. In short, inflation was much lower during the rule of law and justice. In 2021 there was indeed an increase in inflation, but this is a global phenomenon caused by the pandemic crisis. [[Voice from the room: It's twice the size.]] We, unlike you, react. At the time of your reign, there was no response. When we react, we help Poles, you criticize it. This concerns, for example, VAT on fertilisers and plant protection products. This is a concrete profit for the farmer. I've heard here that farmers won't feel a drop to 0%. VAT on fertilisers and plant protection products. How will they not feel? Of course, the VAT-men won't feel it. I have a question for the Ministry: How many farmers pay VAT? Definitely a minority. 1,300 thousand. farmers will feel this reduction and when it comes to fertilisers, e.g. ammonium nitrate, that's going to be a 200% reduction. In short, agricultural production costs will fall. [[How's that?]] And that is the concrete dimension of our proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[What 200%? 200% of what?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u82	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Wielichowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u83	The economic situation and inflation situation in Poland have been the worst for more than 20 years. This is the result of government incompetence, irresponsibleness and waste of time in preparing a long-term strategy. Too bad you didn't listen to us two or three months ago. We were already talking about VAT reductions and the need to prepare a long-term strategy. VAT reduction is a solution that is very late, short-term and only temporary. Today, this solution will not limit the causes. The reasons will reduce tax reductions for entrepreneurs. VAT for entrepreneurs is indifferent. For entrepreneurs, taxes are important: minimum, power, issue, property taxes, leasing costs or credit. In addition, add the issues of managing the wealth of the Treasury, stop feeding Pisiewicz, stop hiring friends of the rabbit in fictional positions, and finally I propose: more humility and moderation when it comes to Prime Minister's and President's office, after all, it's loose conduct. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u84	Mr Dariusz Rosati. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u85	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, this project will not cause inflation to fall, for several reasons. Firstly, it generates a loss of revenue for the state budget of PLN 11.6 billion, which is not accompanied by a decrease in expenditure from the state budget, which means that we will simply have a larger deficit and keeping expenditure at a high level is, of course, an inflationary factor. Secondly, no one in the world has succeeded in lowering inflation by means of VAT reductions, precisely because, as has been said on many occasions in the business sector, VAT rates are neutral and, as far as households are concerned, you should go in a different direction. You should go towards direct transfers for those groups that are most affected by inflation and feel it most. You lower VAT rates for everyone, including the richest. This really isn't rational. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, thirdly, this type of action does not go to the right reasons for inflation. That's it. treatment of symptoms. Remember that, under the growing demand that we face in our economy at the moment, the reductions in VAT rates will not translate into lower prices. In many cases, price falls will be minimal. On the other hand, on 1 August prices will definitely go up and we will have to accelerate inflation growth rather than lower inflation as a cumulative effect of your actions. [[Applause]] [[Work better on the European Parliament forum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is good that Poles have finally seen the announcement of lowering food and fuel prices. I do not know if the reduction announced is capable of saving the economy of small and medium-sized enterprises, but it may reduce the scale of bankruptcy and bail-out. Yesterday, the Prime Minister called on small traders to comply with the VAT rules and to reduce prices. My question concerns the giants responsible for the supply of gas and electricity to companies and apartments. How does the government intend to regulate price changes in relation to settlement periods? How does the government intend to regulate the change in electricity and gas prices that have been consumed and whose prices have been fixed after the old VAT rates have been included in them? What about the reduced ones? The previous practices of giants consisted in charging all energy supplies at maximum rates, even though there were two or even three price increases during settlement periods. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u88	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Dorota Sunday.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Agriculture - the eye in the head of the PiS. It seems to me that the PiS state has closed your eyes and you're going blind, into a collision with the wall, and the farmers are already aware of it, and now they see the most clearly what's going on. Of course, the Member has spoken his language, because the prices of fertilisers will fall not by 200%, but by 200 PLN at the most. [[Is that bad or good?]] Now let's get this straight. Fertilisers in the last year have been 300% and 500%. It's a deal. It's a deal. If the price of a tonne of ammonium nitrate falls, which in December 2021 amounted to PLN 4669.69? How much will the price of a tonne of urea fall, which in December cost PLN 5320? We proposed to include 800 million in the budget for aid to farmers for the purchase of fertilisers, which was a demand of farmers themselves. The farmers offered 1 000. zł from 1 t... What does the government propose? VAT reduction. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask: How much will these prices fall and how are you going to be able to block the bankruptcy of farmers and the decline in income in agriculture? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u90	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Paluch has arrived in the room, so please ask us for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to thank the government for the new initiative to protect both households, i.e. ordinary Poles, ordinary Kowalskis, who are worried about their future and producers, because it is clear that the price of fuels, including motor fuels, diesel, petrol is clearly costing in all areas of the economy. So, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the complaining and ritual complaints we have heard here from the opposition, this matter is obvious and simple as the construction of the cepa. Opportunity to reduce inflation pressures is sought at source, because fuel and energy prices are the ones that drive inflation in all areas and increase prices. Ladies and gentlemen! But we should not lose sight of this issue, that we are dealing with a European tax here, with a massive increase (the Bell) in the price of gas, the price of emission allowances, 15 times in a few years. And my question is, what are we going to do about it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u92	Although we have completed a series of questions, Mr Zbigniew Dolata would like to make an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Of course, I've overspoken, the price of fertilisers will drop by 200 PLN per ton. But, of course, it is not true what Mrs Niedziela said by stating the price of fertilisers. That's not 5,000. per tonne, for example, when it comes to ammonium nitrate, it's 2800 per tonne. However, this reduction will be significant and felt for farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u94	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor of Mr Mariusz Gojny, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, who will address the speeches and questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The project is linked to a very difficult economic situation affecting society's living conditions in a negative way, and therefore contains non-standard solutions, but temporary and exceptional. Solutions include a temporary reduction in VAT rates for goods. The aim is to halt price increases and thus also to help combat the socio-economic effects of rising inflation, mainly caused by high fuel, gas, energy prices and the recovery of the economy affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The amendments proposed in the Act are a continuation of the tax reductions under anti-inflationary measures of the 1.0 anti-inflationary shield developed in 2021, including the continuation of the VAT reductions introduced for this purpose from 1 January this year. In order to further reduce VAT rates for gas, energy, but also for food and fuel, the Ministry of Finance was in dialogue with the European Union, we sent several letters, including a letter containing a detailed anti-inflationary analysis. On the other questions, the Ministry of Finance will answer the Members, ladies and gentlemen, in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u96	Thank you. Would Mr Costowniak, as a representative of the applicants, like to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Although it is difficult to ask questions about a project that man himself presented, I do have a very short question for the Minister. The point is for you to explain to us, especially to your colleagues in the opposition. You often say that you had solutions two years ago, a year ago. I wanted to ask, Minister, when the first major inflationary reading took place not only at the level of our country, but also in Europe or in the world. Because at yesterday's committee meeting, we heard that no international financial institution talked about this possibility of rising inflation two years ago. So today, the presentation of prescriptions that supposedly arose two years ago in your clubs, in the heads of state, in the institutions that support you, is completely untrue, because this phenomenon has not happened two years ago. [[But it was the Confederation that said...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u98	Thank you very much. Would the Minister like to refer to this?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is so complicated that we will respond in writing to you if possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u100	The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services, contained in print No 1905, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm, based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, a time limit has been set for the committee to submit a report enabling it to be examined at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on National Defence on the Government's draft law amending the Law - Education Law and some other laws (prints No 1812 and 1895). I would like to ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to submit a report to the committee. [[Voice from the room: Now, now, now, now, here comes a friend.]] But no one is rushing the Member, we all see that he is trying to get to the Sejm stand as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on National Defence on the Government bill amending the Law - Educational Law and some other laws, print No 1812. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 30 November 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on National Defence. The joint committee meeting on which the first reading and examination of the project took place took place on 4 January. During the committee's work, after overcoming technical difficulties in handling remote work, Minister Dariusz Piontkowski presented the bill. Development of the draft statutory changes is a further improvement of the legal basis for the functioning of the education system in Poland. Regulations were introduced concerning the establishment and supervision of military preparation units - at the request of the Minister of National Education and the possibility of setting up branch schools subject to artistic schools - at the request of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. In addition, the Act introduces an obligation to organise distance learning, remote teaching in case of suspension of classes for pupils for reasons other than COVID, if the suspension of these classes lasts more than 2 days, and the possibility of organising remote teaching for students covered by individual teachings or hospitalized pupils. The Act sets out the rules for non-governmental organisations in schools and institutions. In addition, a catalogue of the conditions to be met has been introduced in the Act in order for the host body to be able to liquidate the school or establishment. The Act strengthens the position of education curator in the area of common competences of the leading authority and the pedagogical supervisory authority. I will say very generally: the previous activities of the lead authority which required the opinion of the curator, in principle in these areas require a positive opinion of the curator in accordance with the wording of the draft. The position of the pedagogical board has been strengthened, an obligation has been introduced to evaluate the organisational sheet by the pedagogical board. The catalogue of data in the educational information system has been extended to include school tasks for pupils with a ruling on the need for special education and re-education classes and early development support opinions. It also regulates the transfer of data on the employment of teachers to the Social Insurance Institution. The draft law also includes new rules on the functioning of non-governmental organisations in schools and institutions. The debate at the committee meeting, the debate on this bill was very long and very hot, I can say colloquially. In principle, the opposition Members questioned mainly Article. 86 introducing the provision that the school curator is giving an opinion on the proposal made by the school principal and the non-governmental organisation in the area of the activities to be conducted with the students, the methods used in conducting the classes and the staff to conduct the classes in the school. The long debate of the opposition also concerned the issue of strengthening the education curator. I will not go into the details of the debate because it lasted a few hours, but I can say that the amendments tabled by the Members of the opposition and the votes in the debate show that the changes do not gain acceptance and that the opposition would like these changes not to be introduced because they are kind of exceeding the legal status which the Education Act introduces as regards the division of competences between the host authority and the pedagogical supervisory authority. The Minister, referring to this discussion, made it very clear that the remit of the lead authority in terms of the tasks it performs in the education system does not change. Conducting bodies continue to pursue educational policies to ensure that education is accessible to all pupils and young people. They have tasks in the area of good technical condition of buildings. They have tasks in the area of being an employer for the school principal. And these tasks are defined by law. The pedagogical supervision, as you know, is carried out by the state. The state has an educational policy. In the area of pedagogical supervision, there are issues of compliance with the provisions of the Education Law, the functioning of schools. These are the basic documents of the programme basis, regulations in the area of evaluation, classification, promotion and admission of pupils to schools. The legal status is uniform throughout Poland and there is supervision of the curator. But what is most important is the implementation of the curriculum basis and the objectives of the school at the different educational stages that are written in the programme basis. There is also pedagogical supervision of compliance with the school statute. The Minister stressed very clearly, and I personally fully agree, that such opinions, that the school is losing its autonomy, should not take place, because the school is not, as is higher education, legally recorded autonomy. In the area of education, we are talking about the autonomy of the teacher and this autonomy of the teacher in choosing teaching methods and achieving educational goals is absolutely intact. On the contrary, many activities have been undertaken in the Ministry of Education over the past years, which provide additional tools and teaching aids. Absolutely no teacher is restricted in his autonomy. After the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law. Mrs Dziemianowicz-Bąk's motion was rejected by 36 votes to 38. Ms Krystyna Szumilas has requested a public hearing. The motion was rejected by 37 votes in favour, 39 against. Mr Piotr Borys has requested that the bill be sent to the subcommittee. This motion was rejected by 35 votes in favour, 40 against. We've moved on to the bill. I'm just going to make a very big reference, so to speak, exactly. This amendment was tabled by Mrs Krystyna Shumilas. I think that this amendment corresponds to the debate that has been held. She has tabled an amendment on amending the title of the law and has proposed that the law should have the title: on the manual control of the school by politicians and on the right to raise children to parents. [[Applause]] Of course, this is a very good amendment, very serious, very substantive, very consistent with the legislative process. Ladies and gentlemen, let's really, really, really make the law, not like this, you can say, rhetorical fun. In the course of the drafting of the bill, the clubs tabled amendments. The Civic Coalition has tabled 22 amendments, Law and Justice - 11 amendments, Left - 6 amendments and Confederation - 1 amendment. In the process of examining and voting on individual amendments... Oh, one more piece of paper, that'll be it. The final result of the committee's work is the adoption of 11 amendments to Law and Justice. I will briefly describe what changes the committee has made to the draft print bill 1812. As a result of the amendments adopted, the procedure for appealing the school head or establishment under Article was harmonised. 55 and Article 55 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member A transitional provision was also introduced for applications for cancellation of the school head submitted before the entry into force of the law - in general the law currently in force, the applications will be dealt with according to the current legal status. Amendment, with the approval of the Ministry, after discussion in the parliamentary club, concerning the withdrawal from changing the composition of the competition committee in the competition for the position of head of the school. We have returned to the provisions currently in force, the compositions of the competition committees do not change, as well as the powers of trade unions in the delegation of the members of the competition committee. A very important amendment was adopted introducing deadlines for the publication by the bodies holding the term of the competition for the post of school head. This was also due to the conclusions of pedagogical supervision. Unfortunately, there have been, although very isolated, situations in which directors, with whom the lead authority wanted to part, to obtain an evaluation of the work, were generally prevented, these competitions were announced at a time convenient for the lead authority. So we are introducing a provision aimed at rigidly determining at what time this competition can take place, so that those participating in the competition can complete the documentation, attach the certificates and get an evaluation of the work. In this context, we have also amended the provision that, in the case of a school principal, an evaluation of the work is given by the pedagogical supervisor in agreement with the local authority, with the lead authority. Unfortunately, there were cases where this assessment could not be agreed. In a situation where there is no such arrangement, we have accepted the solution that the education curator is presenting the evaluation. We have also introduced in the form of an amendment a solution aimed at obliging the school head to inform the pedagogical supervisory authority about changes in the school's organisational sheet introduced after 30 September. Here, too, there were very serious signals from teachers concerning unfortunately such activities of the school management, that the teacher generally learned in August before the pedagogical council starting the next school year, what is the allocation of hours, what are the jobs, what are the solutions. Thus, in this procedure of opinion of the organisational sheet, which is provided for in the Act, is also to familiarize the pedagogical board before sending for opinion by the curator. There are three amendments to the amendments, the amendments can be said to be technical. These are changes in the date of entry into force of the proposed law. These amendments are really technical, it concerns the creation of artistic schools, the deadline for submitting an application for permission to establish a branch of military preparation and the entry into force of the entire draft law, because we are already a little later with the legislative process in the Sejm. Perhaps one more sentence important for the report. Members have tabled 11 amendments as proposals by a minority who have not received a positive opinion from the committee. Commissions pursuant to Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm present 11 requests for minorities - but I have written down - and they ask for the adoption of a draft law annexed to the printing report No 1895. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u102	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Tomasz Zieliński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Law - Educational Law and some other laws, print No 1812. The planned amendment to the amendment to the Act - Educational Law, among others. strengthens the role of the pedagogical supervisor, which is a consistent implementation of the Law and Justice electoral programme. In order to carry out statutory tasks, the curator should be provided with appropriate legal provisions excluding any application of the Educational Law. At this point I would like to reassure all school heads and institutions, because the demonization of this law by the majority of the opposition has nothing to do with the solutions proposed in the legislation. There is no legal regulation in the Education Law regarding the completion of the recommendation procedure and the effective supervision of non-public institutions and schools. Very few, but there were situations where the school principal did not make the recommendations made or the head of a non-public school, and very often he is also the lead authority, prevented the audit from being carried out. The proposed changes regulate and equip the school curator with appropriate tools to effectively carry out surveillance tasks. The role of supervision has been strengthened in the case of the appointment of a director for less than 5 years, the appointment of a director if he is not selected as a result of a competition or the appointment of a non-teacher as a school principal. The draft law introduces an obligation for the authority to obtain a positive opinion from the school curator in these cases. In the same project as the critics of the law, the legal protection of school heads was strengthened, making the teacher's dismissal from the management position during the school year without giving notice to receive a positive opinion from the school curator. Currently, the guardian's opinion was not binding for the lead authority. For the benefit of school heads, provision has been made for the lack of agreement between the authority on the assessment of their work. Until now, the lack of agreement between the lead authority and the pedagogical supervisor has prevented the evaluation of the Director, which has often prevented the Director from applying for another term of office. Now, in the event of a disagreement, the education curator will issue an evaluation. The conditions of activity in schools of associations and organisations have been regulated, which so far depended on a positive opinion of the pedagogical board and the parents' advice. The proposal for amendments also made the conduct of these classes subject to the consent of the school curator, who, in the course of pedagogical supervision, ensures the implementation of the curriculum in schools and institutions, but, above all, for the first time, the requirement to obtain written consent from parents, who must be informed by the school principal of the objectives and content of the programme. I can therefore assure my parents that when the law enters into force, no out-of-school organization, except for scout organisations, will be able to conduct classes with their children without their consent. The bill also contains a number of other amendments. The term of the competition for the post of head of the school has been introduced, which is a good solution for the current headmaster in the event of an intention to run for office in due course to ask for an evaluation of the work. It also prevents a competition from being held one year or more in advance. The Act, which is a novel, sets out the conditions that must be fulfilled in order for the school or establishment to be wound up. In addition, the proposed law clarifies that a local government unit may indicate that pupils can only continue to study in schools or schools run by that unit. The draft law also introduced proposals for changes concerning military preparation units in secondary schools developed in cooperation with the Ministry of National Defence. A new regulation has been introduced on the obligation to organise classes for pupils using distance learning methods and techniques where there is no traditional possibility of conducting classes. Regulations have also been proposed to allow the municipality to organise the transport of pupils in situations other than those in which the municipality has a statutory obligation. The deadline for adapting the housing conditions of pre-school units in primary schools was extended until 31 August 2024. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, taking the above into account, will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u104	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition by Krystyna Shumilas. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u105	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today's debate is not just a debate on the adoption of another fatal law, because this law should actually be called a law on the manual control of the school by politicians and the right to raise parents. Therefore, today's debate is of fundamental importance for the upbringing of generations of Poles and Poles. Today, the Sejm will decide whether the Polish school will be a school responding to the needs of children and will serve their future according to their parents' expectations, or will raise people who are enslaved, subordinate, prone to propaganda of the ruling party. This is the fundamental meaning of this law. [[Applause]] Non-governmental organisations, local governments, teachers, trade unions, parents and students are fighting for free school. They fight a power that does not understand the meaning of words: freedom, democracy, independence, openness, honesty, tolerance. They fight against power, which does not understand how important it is to raise the wise, responsible for himself and other Poles who care about the heritage of their homeland and its future. That's what the laughter says. And the giggle of history is that we have to fight... [[You've been eliminating history.]] ...the free school, because it wants to be eliminated by a party that calls itself the heir to the idea of!Solidarity, but the dreams of the!Solidarity about a free and independent school throws it in the basket. [[Applause]] You want proof? The first quote comes from the Act of 1961 on the Development of the Education and Education System: All non-school educational and educational activities and other forms of work with children are supervised by the Minister of Education. 1961 - how is this different from the one proposed today by Minister Czarnek? Nothing, because the minister wants it to be just like the times were right. [[Applause]] The past curator, his political governor, had unlimited control over schools and could block out after-school activities offered by his parents. The piss puts the policy, the guardian of education above the parents. [[Applause]] Above his parents he puts a man nominated by PiS, faithful PiS and PiS-based ideology injected into Polish schools. And the intellectual pattern is your parole officer Nowak. And the second quote, coming from the programme resolution of the first convention of October 1981. Listen carefully: Culture and education cannot be used to impose uniform beliefs and to shape the attitude of submission and passiveness. [[Applause]] 1981, "Solidarity": education cannot be used to impose uniform beliefs. What's the PiS doing today? He wants to force the school to impose uniform beliefs, to force teachers to model submissive and passive people, because only they will be, as Marshal Terlecki says, true patriots voting for the PiS. This project hits the foundations of our children's education, gags the mouths of teachers, tie hands with your parents. Is that what you want? Why are you voting for this project? [[Applause]] Because you think the school is meant to serve the state, not the child. Because you think you know better than your parents how they're supposed to raise their children. Because there is still sentiment in your ranks that the state, through the help of education curators, should raise its citizens. For more important than knowledge are superstitions and ideological passions for you. Because you think that ignorance and bad emotions built on resentment for all diversity and differentness are the way to maintain power. What you're doing is a disaster worse than an economic disaster. It is a moral disaster that can have fatal consequences in the process of raising young generations of Poles. Finally, I would like to remind you of the words of Andrzej Frycz Modrzewski, who, while examining the role of science and teachers, wrote: Where reason does not prevail, power will grow into tyranny and the state becomes barbaric and inhuman. We do not want such a country, we do not want such power, and therefore we are requesting that this project be rejected in its entirety. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Great.]] [[What was so great about it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u106	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, club Lewis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u107	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Much has been said about the fact that the law known as lex Czarnek is an attack on school freedom, the autonomy of the director and the subjectivity of the local government. True, but no less important and true is that lex Czarnek is a danger to the students. And it is mostly about them, about young Poles and young Poles that I want to speak on behalf of the Left today. When we talk about school, we're not just talking about the institution, about the building, about the equipment of the halls, we're not just talking about the teacher's workplace, but we're also talking about the teacher's workplace. When we talk about school, we talk about a place where every Polish child, each young person spends 1/3 of their time. We're talking about a place to live because school is a place of everyday life for young people. It's the school that learns new things about the world, it's where they make friends, sometimes for life, it's where they experience the fuss of growing up, ask questions about themselves, their identity and their future. The school is also a place where they come with private luggage, family experiences - good ones and bad ones. This is a place that should provide care and professional support whenever necessary. Listen, feed, advise, help solve the problem and realize your dreams. School is just a second home for young people. It should be full of light and warmth, caring, safe, full of curiosity. He should have a good host - the director - and teachers who will build a safe and prejudice-free space for every student and student. And when needed and in accordance with the parents' will, guests will be invited to this house - social organisations and specialists, which make education more interesting, more comprehensive, responding to the needs of young people who the school itself is unable to meet. This is the second home a public school should be. And she could be, but Minister Czarnek once again enters this house with boots. This time, to block all the windows in it, banish his parents from it, so they don't decide what kind of extracurricular activities their children take part in... [[On the contrary, we strengthen the role of parent.]] ...in the principal's office to put a guard of his own, and in the teacher's room, his criminal subordinates. The school doors only want to be opened for the curator-procurator, who will see if there is a party line in the class. If it isn't, the probation officer will force even the most committed school staff to exchange, threatening the principal with a three-year prison. Minister! The same energy that you are putting into the concreteing of the Polish school today could be put into creating a good, friendly and safe place of learning, care and development, a second home for young people. A few changes in your plans would be enough. Instead of a fanatical fight against sexual education - the fight against extreme poverty among the youngest, poverty in which another 100,000 fell in 2020. children. They don't need protection from education about health and sexuality. They need a warm, nutritious meal at school. Instead of fighting the insubordinate directors - fighting children's caries and supporting the school in creating good quality dental offices. Instead of repeating anti-scientific propaganda, curator Nowak and resisting vaccination even when your health minister wants to introduce them into schools - building systemic support for children who lost a close person through the pandemic. Psychologists in every school have never been as needed as they are today, when almost half of Polish teenagers suffer from symptoms of depression, and the number of child suicide attempts increases from year to year. These are just a few examples of real, burning challenges of the Polish school, challenges that you do not have time to meet, busy separating schools from the outside world with curators cordon, supervision and control. There is no educational environment in Poland today, from which there would not be opposition to this law. Not for lex Czarnek - one voice is spoken by students, parents, teachers, trade unions, school heads, self-governments, educational social organizations. Members and Messengers of Law and Justice! This voice of opposition also reaches your constituents. What's more, it's also their voice. The vast majority of Poles want the final decision about what is happening at school to be made by the principal and teachers, not by the minister and his curators, and Polish parents do not wish to be at the mercy of the ministerial governor and do not want their children's extra activities to be decided by the party nominators. They do not want curator Nowak to prohibit their children from classes about the Polish constitution or health education. They don't want school violence when the student gets hurt, so it's up to the probation officer to agree to external support from a psychologist or an anti-violence social organization. These parents, these students, these directors and teachers want, expect and demand from all of us in this room today one vote against this bill. The Left won't let them down. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u108	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Klimczak on behalf of the Coalition Poland Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u109	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In terms of organization, including in terms of self-government and freedom of action, this law withdraws the Polish school by three decades. Ladies and gentlemen! PiS funds us a return to the PRL, because this is a classic example of centralization and de facto art breaking. 15 Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which clearly states that power in Poland is decentralized. It's not just the art that's talking about it. 15 constitutions, but also doctrine and practice of legislation after 1989, when we take the central competences and give them to the local government. After this law has been passed, neither teachers nor parents will really have anything to say at school - I do not mention management or local government - because there is a curator. Today, the probation officer will decide everything. The curator, the PiS, the government, the Minister of Blacks. It's easy to imagine what this school's gonna look like. In government rhetoric it looks like this: we strengthen pedagogical supervision of the school. I'm gonna tell you the truth from this lecturer today. It's not about any pedagogical supervision, it's about the political supervision of the school. [[Genius.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] The coroner's argument is to look at who the parole officer is. After all, most of these probation officers in the media directly claim that they support the PiS and they act in favour of the PiS. If we want to increase the powers of the curators, let's look at them, let's look at your curators. Recently, one of the cases became public - the probation officer who said that vaccinations against COVID-19 were an experiment. Do we want school to look like this? That's why we're increasing the powers of the curators to actually create next generations of anti-vaccines? Because that's actually what it's coming to. When I spoke at the committee meeting about the fact that this was not about pedagogical supervision, it was about the political supervision of the school of PiS, in one of the interviews, he was terribly upset about this argument by Minister Czarnek, but he did not give the counter-arguments. He insulted the Polish People's Party, but did not provide any substantive arguments. Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask you one more thing. What happened to President Andrzej Duda's project? I remember that in the election campaign he wrote a project that would give all parents the opportunity to co-decide on the types of content and how to conduct additional activities. That was President Andrzej Duda's promise to the campaign. This project went to Parliament. As I checked today, even the government's opinion is gone. Such consent prevails among the United Right. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not what the ministry should be doing today. There are a number of other serious problems at school. Not to mention what the local government says about what their parents say. Recently I met a parent from Tomasz Mazowiecki and in the context of the so-called. lex Czarnek says: Ministry today should address systemic problems. My kid's in second grade. It's at an hour. Twelve's out of class, there's nothing to do. Parents work at least until hours. 16. What's he gonna do with that kid? Of course there's a lounge, but what's the class? Who's organizing classes there? What's the offer for those kids who end at hours? 12 jobs? What about foreign languages? Maybe the Ministry will take care of what to do to make it English every day at school or another foreign language, or maybe food, free lunches - that is also a problem - or maybe a number of other things, e.g. In high school? Tell me if any student who graduates from high school will be able to write a contract or sign a contract, he'll know what to pay attention to. Or in tax matters... These are useful things. I think the school should take care of that. It should also focus - the ministry should also focus on this - how at school the student is supposed to gain the ability to distinguish truth from lies, not queer from hat and others, but truth from falsehood. These are school assignments. There are many important tasks in front of the Ministry of Education, and it deals with the issue of introducing such a system so that the head of the school is from the appointments of the current government. That's too little, that's why it's based on art. 15 today I submit on behalf of my club a motion to reject the committee's report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor will speak on behalf of the Confederation's circle. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u111	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As I started my teacher's career, they functioned so-called. The three Gortens. I don't remember these days very well. From the teacher's point of view, they were not thrilled that it worked. [[The voice from the room: But it was...]] Now this bill reminds me a little bit of the atmosphere of horror that was in school at the time. Although I was a young teacher who was actually ignoring all the arrangements, arrangements, situations - apart from teaching young people, I was completely not interested in what was going on there - I actually remember what caused the three of them. Ladies and gentlemen! This law is exactly the opposite of what we should aim at, namely decentralisation of education and making schools compete with each other in some concrete way and be able to conduct their own programme, educational policy in terms of offer and in all possible respects. There was an amendment by the Confederation, which I made to the education committee, which, first, gave more power to parents. Because it's up to parents to decide. In addition, the rapporteur said here that parents should decide. [[They will be.]] Only in your case it's an empty phrase. And in my case, it was written in an amendment that you rejected, which gave your parents more power to choose the director. This amendment also eliminated the vote of the trade unions in the election of the director, because trade unions are supposed to be against the director. However, in the case we are considering, they take part in the choice of their competitor. They are in a state of constant dispute, that is obvious. You rejected that amendment. You strengthen the role of the curatorium, you strengthen the role of trade unions, because without them you will not be able to really make personal decisions at the highest level; you give the curator the right to remove the obstinate director without the possibility of cancellation, except completely that someone has chosen this director; you centralize the school, you lead the minister to give orders to the curator, the curator gives orders to the director and everything is to be there as in the army; you lead to a situation where the Minister of Education becomes a dictator of the Polish school. I asked this question many times, and I asked this question also in the education committee: Do you want the power you want to give your minister to take over somebody from the Left? Because I wouldn't. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u112	Mr Michał Grammar on behalf of the Polish 2050 wheel.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u113	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! It wasn't enough for you to liquidate junior high schools, extort the government of meaningless reorganization of schools, not enough for you even to suppress the brutal strike of teachers, push out many valuable people beyond the parentheses of this noble profession. For you people who were passionate about supervision and control of every manifestation of life, it was not enough. Today, when schools need democratisation and autonomy, you fund the power of officials. Because PiS can't do democracy or autonomy. Today, when school needs backup, you guys are giving us more control. Because the PiS can't support it. The evidence is pandemic, quality of remote education, lack of psychological care, etc., etc. School needs development, but you don't see it because the PiS can't develop or understand its role. In the eyes of many of you today, the school could look like pictures of Alcybiades or Satan of the seventh grade. School needs courage, not fear, but the PiS prefers to fear, because you still haven't heard what the teaching of upbringing says. School needs a sense of self - control, not an educated helplessness. But you're trying to destroy the consciousness of creation and make it feel like nothing can be done without your only enlightened consent. The whole world, all the professionals, all the professionals, are telling you this bill is pointless, but you guys are chasing her through the Sejm, no matter what happens at night for hours of committee meetings. Like a moth that flies into a fire, you're building this crazy education centralization project. In the reversal of concepts, you have gone so far that even in the justification of the bill yourself, because perhaps no one else, you are convinced that increasing curatorial supervision is expected to have a positive impact on the development of pupils and pupils. This bill is good for basketball, everyone tells you today. It is worth telling you once again: the Polish school requires a calm, thoughtful reform focused on the welfare of the child, not a return to the times of the Polish People's Republic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u114	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But how about after the questions, Minister? [[Minister of Education and Science Przemysław Czarnek: No, no, now, right now.]] The Minister can at any time? Okay, good. In that case, please, Minister Czarnek as Minister for Constitutional Affairs. You're welcome. [[Voice from the hall: How embarrassing are you?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for allowing us to speak at this point, because there have been too many words, too many absolutely detached from the reality of the arguments in these club speeches, to leave it for later and to throw into the thickening of questions that will probably be, and to which we will gladly answer me and Minister Dariusz Piontkowski. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues with the chairwoman of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in charge of a truly excellent democratic work on this very important law. There have been many discussions, including many hours, and in the ministry, and here in Parliament, concerning the point after the point of this law. There was an analysis, an in-depth, substantive analysis, you know, by whom? By teachers internships, by school heads. You go out here and you say that teachers are protesting, and Mr Grammar even said that the whole world is protesting against this bill. Well, sir, in this world there are also school heads, teachers of Polish schools, practitioners from various parts of Poland who co-created this law. [[Who want to be fired without notice.]] Please accept that the whole world is not just a world of Holovnia and the Civic Platform. This is a pluralistic world and this pluralism we demand. [[Game in the hall, applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is actually a plebiscite, what we are for and for which we are Polish. Are we in favour of Poland strong, strong, caring for children and young people? It is about children and young people everywhere, in every place of Poland, from Lower Silesia to Suwałszczyzna, from Bieszczad to Western Pomerania, from Zakopane to Gdansk, because Gdansk is also in Poland, even though you may not like it. There are Polish children everywhere and they deserve the same treatment and care of a strong Polish country everywhere. Or are you in favour of what, of course, you have repeatedly declared, i.e. the decentralisation of the total state, i.e. For the neighborhood crash? I did not know that Polish People's Party was also in favour of this. Shame, sir. You say - allow me to address you first in this speech - that you are referring to substantive arguments and I insulted the Polish People's Party. Sir, a caveman is your word, I never called you that. That's what you used to call me. If anyone's insulting, it's you. Please note that the Polish language is the same for everyone. I wasn't insulting you, I was paying attention that you were reading ripped pages from the constitution. The Constitution needs to be read in full. You can't even get to your mouth. Article 2 15. You're talking about decentralisation, but you forget that in your mouth. 2 of the same article, only you didn't have time to read it anymore, does it say that the rules of this decentralisation determine what? The bill. And the law states that there is no decentralisation of Polish schools, that there is no autonomy of Polish schools. There has been a diocese in Polish schools for decades. There is a leading body that deals with the school infrastructure, the maintenance of schools, and there is a pedagogical supervision body that ensures that the content transmitted in all schools, from Bieszczad to Western Pomerania, from Zakopane to Gdańsk, is the same and non-demoralizing. [[Applause]] Do you understand that or not? You want more substantive arguments? Don't lie to me. People from the Polish People's Party, also in my country, are ashamed of you and what you are doing. Because you really do fit in completely with a series of post-communist and liberal oppositions, and they see it. Thank you so much for this speech. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Will there be anything about the bill?]] Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is only about one thing. I don't understand why you don't let the public know all your parents first about the materials that each non-governmental organization wants to pass on to their children... [[But the Minister knows that's not the point.]] ...only you want to keep to the very end what some organization wants to pass on so that your parents don't have access to it. We just want to... [[Lies!]] Don't be nervous, Minister. Your nerves are really out of order. We're discussing. [[You're lying, that's not the point.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that every non-governmental organization that we invite to Polish schools first presents everything that the children want to show what they want to say to their children. It's about transparency. [[Applause]] If Mr Dziambor was talking about freedom... Mr President, for me, freedom is transparency, openness, and that is what we are fighting for in this law. We want to know what one, the other or the third NGO wants to pass on to children everywhere in Poland. We want freedom for our parents. That's what we're fighting for in this bill, and that's what we discussed at our meetings at the Ministry. [[You don't understand freedom.]] Transparentness, which is absolutely lacking today. Minister Szumilas, Minister Krystyna Szumilas, spoke about the manual control of schools by politicians. Ladies and gentlemen, do not pretend because Poles know exactly that you are pretending and trying to fake reality. Ma'am, Trzaskowski is a politician, Vice President of the Civic Platform. Dulkiewicz is a politician, he is a man associated with the Civic Platform. Jaskowiak is a politician. In the same way, some of the PSL leaders in each municipality are PSL politicians. And today, thanks to the fact that she doesn't have all this pedagogical supervision, you guys are politicizing the school. [[Applause]] Remind me who's using Librus? Remind me, who, with the help of school educational tools, sends political letters to their parents? Who politicized the school? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Yes, sir.]] Who politicized the school? It's you who politicized the school, we depoliticize it. Because the supervisory authority, the lead authority, the local authority, which is the lead authority, is not from determining the content that is passed on to children at school. The governing body, it's from running schools. Take care of the school business. We're helping you very much. These are billions of PLN from the Polish Order, which your uncles also allocate to schools. This is exactly what you need to do: run schools, expand schools, develop infrastructure, create the working conditions for teachers they need. That's what we give the money for. [[You take the money out of the pockets of Poles with big hands.]] Take it, expand it. This is what you do, not the politicization of the school - from Platform to PSL. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, next thing you know, Minister Shumilas said, teachers protest, unionists protest. Let us recall the protests from a week ago, which were shown in the free media of the opposition, so-called. free media. All of Poland protested. Szucha Avenue in Warsaw - all of Poland protests - 36 people. [[In Kalisz, two.]] In Kalisz - two, in other places - four. At the protest, when you were sitting on the committee, the whole of Poland was reported to have pulled over. Do you know what this whole Poland looked like? So that even the Chairman of the Defendor had to use the following abbreviation: there are 100 organizations represented by almost 100 people. This was a powerful protest - 100 organizations represented by nearly 100 people. [[You want more, you will.]] Most of it, Madame, with rainbow umbrellas. You were there to defend the school? From what? Before your ideology. I'm glad you were there. [[Applause]] One last thing. Minister, listen to me, let's look each other in the eye. If you, for many recent years, have been walking side by side, hand in hand with post-communists, Communists, neo-Marxist ideologists, refer to the ideals of the '81 'Solidarity'... [[Peterovich, Minister, Peterovich.]] You have no right. People who presently perform hand in hand, shoulder in hand with communists and post-communists, have no right to wipe their faces with ideals of 1981. [[Applause]] You have no right. You have no right. [[Speech outside the microphone, ringtone]] Calm down, sir, because pressure is a very important issue. It's really important. I wouldn't want you on my conscience, really. [[Control yourself.]] Mr President, I draw your attention. Not with that finger and not with that voice. You're welcome. Minister of Education and Science, Przemysław Czarnek: Mrs Dziemianowicz-Bak. I don't know where the Member is. Madam, you have made an absolutely wonderful argument: let the Ministry take care of child poverty. Dear Member, do you really want me to remind you of the extreme poverty of children when your party companions from the SLD ruled this country? [[$100,000. There's more today.]] Is that what you really want? I'll remind you not of your time, but the days of your coalitioners today from the Civic Platform and the PSL. Ladies and gentlemen, the monthly income of a four-person family in Poland, everywhere in Poland, has increased by 126% over the last 5 years. That's what we do. These people have no shame. They protested against 500+, protested against all pro-family politics, and they're talking about fighting poverty today? But the Poles remember that you left them in extreme poverty, from which we have been extracting them for the last five years. Member, please remember all this and look into your conscience. What are you saying? I'm really asking for it. Depression. Dear Member, all the programmes that we are implementing, and 700 million, which we are going to use this year for additional jobs for psychologists, for special educators, that is what they do. There are various reasons for this, but one of the reasons is that first you make water out of your children's brains, cause emotional instability for those poor children at school, and then you say they get depressed. First you set fire, then you want to put out fires. Do not do this, and it will be much easier for us to fight the really serious problem that we are facing. I have already talked about Mr Klimczak, but I will address this to a parent from Tomaszów. Where is the Member? Did he leave? I wanted to tell him two more... [[Voices from the room: There it is.]] [[A voice from the room: Maybe you can tell me something about the bill.]] Mr Tomaszów Mazowiecki, a parent from Tomaszów Mazowiecki, I heard, spoke to the Member, saying that children have nothing to do after hours. 12. Mr President, I therefore see that the Polish People's Party is ready to support our great reform of the professional status of teacher. The point is that teachers, each one of them, have at least two hours a week at school, so that this child, who at hours, can have at least two hours a week. 12 finishes lessons in Tomaszów Mazowiecki, could go to a Polish language teacher, to a math teacher, to a teacher of any other subject and ask for advice, to ask for help in doing homework. That's what we want. I see that you want this, too, because you use this argument, so I count on the Polish People's Party to reform the professional status of a teacher. Thank you so much for being ready to support our project. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Mr Dziambor used the arguments I have already argued with here. It's mostly about freedom. Mr President, there is no education in Poland, in the Polish system of decentralisation of education. [[It's gotta be.]] But today we're adopting this law as part of the system in which it is. We haven't changed the system, it's been in the system for decades, so the argument that we want to centralize is missing. We just want to seal this centralized system of pedagogical supervision in such a way that the content of child demoralization does not go to school, because the Polish state - a lesson from the Constitution, Mr Klimczak - has a sacred duty to protect the child from demoralization. That's why we're making these laws. Thank you so much for your work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u116	Thank you very much, Minister. The two Members mentioned by name shall be corrected. First of all, Mrs Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Coalition. [[Mr Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bak: I, too, would like one.]] You weren't mentioned by name. [[You weren't mentioned.]] [[Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Fak: I have been replaced. Take a look at the transcript. Several times, Marshal.]] But don't yell.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm just gonna say two things. How do I judge Minister Przemysław Czarnek as Minister of Education and Science? Not me. Parents, teachers, society. 52% - against, 16% - Yeah, yeah, This is an assessment of your work, Minister. [[Applause]] [[Where was the test done?]] Secondly, you will not say who has the right to appeal to Solidarity. [[Applause]] It's just that you want to divide people into those who have the right and those who have no right. I'm just going to remind Peterowicz, the Attorney General of martial law... Madame, this is a correction procedure. ...with whom you have been working closely in the last seven years. You have no right to say to me, nor to any Pole, nor to any Pole, nor to a student, nor to a teacher, what we have the right to say. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u118	Thank you very much, Commissioner, you have crossed this... Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. You're welcome. [[The voice from the courtroom: Marshal, I was also mentioned by name.]] No, you weren't mentioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u119	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It's very good, Minister, that you're listening to me very carefully, because maybe this will help you with your work, so that you can finally get on with your work. First of all, if I'm talking about art. 15 constitutions, I was not just talking about the fact that it is said that there is a decentralisation of public authority, but I have also been talking about doctrine and legislative practice since 1989. Anyway, I recommend you, and I'll send you a lot of reports on the centralization of public authority that is happening in your day. I'm gonna send you, I'm gonna send you some professional literature, and you're probably gonna need it, just about that, and maybe you'll understand. Secondly, I know you're ashamed of that term: the caveman, but it wasn't PSL who called you that, the PSL only said the fact. And when it comes to shame: if you are talking about some shame, then the biggest shame for Poland is that you are in the role of Minister of Education. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Nice patterns. Master to Professor.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u120	Mr... Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050, also in correction mode. Just don't really stick to the mode and refer to the speech, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u121	Minister! Professor! High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! In the world of the Holovnia, in the world of the Civic Platform, in the world of the PSL, in the world of the Left, the school is to give children roots and wings to develop in them the courage to take up the challenges they face in the future, to pursue professions that are not yet available today, and not to tighten up control or to write para-scientific considerations... [[But this bill is not about that, Mr. President.]] ...in which we beletistically wonder whether there are effective or not physical punishments. [[Where did you read it?]] I will dedicate to you the thought of Abraham Lincoln: You can fool everyone for a while, some all the time, but you can't fool everyone all the time. [[But you have to be able to read, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u122	Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bak also in the correction procedure. You're welcome, my fellow Member. In the future, don't yell at me, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u123	Minister! Extreme child poverty in 2020 increased from 4.5% in 2019 to 5.9% in 2020 This means an additional 100,000. children who have fallen into extreme poverty. What are you telling them today? The minister of these hungry children says today: remember the Polish People's Republic, see how bad it was 10, 20, 30, 50 years ago. Minister, with your hopeless lessons of history, no child will be fed, no household will come out of extreme poverty. Your duty as Minister of Education is to feed every hungry child a warm meal at school, not send them back to the Polish People's Republic. You're talking about psychological help from the Ministry of Education. Minister, you're allocating PLN 3 to a student for psychological assistance. For 3 zlotys you will not get a child out of depression, for 3 zlotys you will not save him from a suicide attempt (The Bell) or a lifeless one. Thank you, Member. And Minister, last sentence... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u124	Thank you, Member, thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, as corrected. That concludes the corrigendum. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u125	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, I didn't criticize the fact that you wanted to give power to your parents - I'm in favour of giving them more power. I'll add that, for example. I had this situation in my career, when I was conducting entrepreneurship classes for about two or three years, on which I explained the difference between, for example, students. Rothbard, Friedman and Keynes. Now that the parole board is going to give an opinion on the schedule of such a lesson, I'm a little afraid that the parole officer might say that I didn't include Marx in this class, and that's manipulation, right? So that's what this is about. [[But what are you talking about? That's not true.]] If parents have power, parents have power. If your parents really want to do this class that you're criticizing, about having sex with, then your parents have decided, and unfortunately you have to agree to it. On the other hand, if they don't want it, then it shouldn't be. It's the parents who should have the power, not the parole officer, and that's what I'm talking about. But I was talking about the director's selection mode, not the power we give our parents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I agree, so be it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u126	I understand you're still in the mode of correction or addition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u127	Just one thing, ladies and gentlemen, about arguments that haven't been made here. I would like to talk further with Mr Dziambor about what should be in school, because I see that we have a common point of view, but we do not really understand the same sentences that are written in our bill. Because it is parents, Mr President, everyone, not 1/10 or 1/5, that we want to show all parents what content will be passed on to them at school, and that is what we want. But that's not what I want to talk about. There were no more substantive arguments here. There is only one thing I want to say to Mr Klimczak. [[And again, I have to take care of myself.]] Mr President, it is that I - unhappyly from your point of view... Minister, no, no, Minister, I'm asking you to limit yourself. Minister of Education and Science, Przemysław Czarnek: ...I don't know, with my luck, I have one wife, I'm married... Minister, it was supposed to be a while. Minister of Education and Science, Przemysław Czarnek: ...I have a church wedding, I have only married children, doesn't mean I'm a caveman. That's how many people live in the country, including peasants, including PSL. Don't use such rude words. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u128	Thank you, Minister. Let's get to the questions. I closed the list before the Minister spoke. We have 84 MPs reporting to ask a question. Therefore, I set the time for the question - 0.5 minutes. First question... [[Voices from the hall: Oh, no, no.]] [[Your marshal, one minute.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not gonna shorten it if it's questions, unless it's just insulting, like it happens all the time. First question, Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Hysteria and hypocrisy--that's how you can vouch for your speeches. This bill isn't bad, this bill brings in a lot of good records. During their meetings with Świętokrzyskie voivodship, they repeatedly talked about problems with the transport of students to schools, they said that the municipality claimed that it would like to deliver these children, but there are no such opportunities. Minister, are those records you're introducing in this bill gonna meet your parents' expectations gonna make their lives easier... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. Are they gonna make it easy for the kids to get to school? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u130	Thank you very much. Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Coalition. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The recipe of Minister Czarnek, who seems to have already gone, for the highest number of suicides in Poland's history, is to give additional powers to the curator Barbara Nowak. This bill leads to absurdity. If e.g. There's gonna be a suicide attempt at school, God forbid it's a successful association (the bell) to run a crisis intervention, and it's gonna have to file a motion two months before that suicide and wait 30 days for the probation officer's approval. What nonsense are you leading to? [[That's a ridiculous question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u132	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Why is the entire achievements of socializing and democratizing the Polish education of the last 32 years destroyed? Why is the individualization of teaching, the teaching of critical thinking being replaced by a return to the schematic teaching of dogmatic, ideological content imposed by right-wing and ecclesiastical power? Why are Minister Czarnek and Jarosław Kaczyński afraid of school? Why are they scared? Because like every satrap (the bell) they are afraid of people thinking independently, asking questions, critically analyzing reality. Such youths are afraid of the current power. And such a school, free school, wants the current power to be smothered.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u134	Thank you. Well, that's the question, isn't it? Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u135	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to go back to the Presidential Act, amend the Law on Education, that's print number 458. Minister, I would like to ask why there has been no opinion on this project until today. It's been a long time since the presidential campaign. It is about giving all parents the opportunity to co-decide on the type, content and how to conduct additional activities. Don't you agree with President Andrzej Duda? What's going on with this project? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u136	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation. There isn't? No. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u137	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, despite what Minister Czarnek said, corruption takes place in government media rather than in schools. There, Law and Justice are beyond the bounds of indecency. Meanwhile, schools should educate people who think critically, who are critical of information and, of course, the government does not want to do so. The government wants to de facto prepare people who will swallow government propaganda like pelicans, and you can see it in textbooks. Minister, since the (Bingle) in Małopolska is such, not another curator, and it is already a step over the abyss, who is it? You guys wanna make heads of school? And what are you really gonna do in these schools? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u138	Thank you. Mrs Anna Ewa Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u139	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law, apart from the fact that it strengthens the role and position of the guardian, also, ladies and gentlemen, strengthens the role and position of the parent, the teacher. Teachers or parents came to my office many times, where there were schools where, in agreement with local government officials, weird organizations came... [[Time's up.]] ...which provided strange content. And we sort it out. At the Polish school will be taught by good teachers... Thank you very much, Member. Member, no, that is not a question. ...who will have the support and good pedagogical supervision of the curator. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You're taking away your parents' right to decide.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u140	Thank you. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition. [[Change for one minute.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u141	A lie repeated is still a lie. PiS claims to give power to parents unless one big party parent is your parole officer Nowak. A man who's against vaccination is to decide if there's gonna be extra biological education at school. A man who opposes the theater will decide whether the children can go to the theatre. A man who opposes ecology, because they called it environmentalism, will decide whether children can have environmental activities at school. This law rapes art. 48 Constitution that gives parents the right to decide how their children will be raised. Because it takes away their right to decide on all the extracurricular activities. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But what do you want?]] [[Even your own club doesn't clap Mrs. Lubnauer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u142	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Following the announcement of the Minister's programme to promote the virtues of the women, we move on to a cold war return to some traditions where in schools small children were taught to wear gas masks and to protect themselves under school benches. I have a question: Does the United Right plan to set up children's defenses or is the whole operation purely propaganda in order to arouse patriotic emotions among the extreme right? I'll ask the Minister to answer in writing. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: The masks are already made to wear.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u144	Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u145	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you when you will restore dignity to Polish teachers, not only when you increase the minimum salary, because you have to add to the trainees. When are you finally gonna add to your education grant? Because local governments add millions to their education every year, ladies and gentlemen. And Minister, first of all, when are you going to dismiss the probation experiment, Mrs Barbara Nowak? I'm expecting an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But there must be experiments, right?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u146	Thank you. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation. Oh, Jesus, that's the run, sir, careful.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u147	That's right, because we're in a hurry. Dear Marshal! Then I would like to say that, going further as far as this point is concerned, since it is that we are supporting the power of our parents, I was just trying to support it. In that case, I understand that even though my amendment in the education committee is that the parental authority should be greater and that it is the parents who should have more votes in the election of the director that has been rejected, it will be supported by the High House. I would like to hear a declaration: yes or no. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u149	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! This bill except for the whole part of the so-called. The civilian also has a military part. Art. 53a offers very wide possibilities for controllers from the Ministry of National Defence: the right to interfere in classes, the right to obtain personal data, issues of assessment of classes, inspection of documentation, issuing recommendations to the school. This may, of course, end with the director's appeal, but the law also allows another director to be a non-teacher (the bell), without the opinion of the pedagogical board. In the ministry's view, is it not a violation of the autonomy of the school? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u150	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Zieliński, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u151	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The opposition is threatening that the curator will now fire the directors, especially when they will not follow the recommendations issued by the visitors. [[Bullshit!]] Minister! I would ask you to explain to the Members of the opposition what happens when the Director does not actually follow these recommendations and whether the curator automatically dismisses the Director. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u153	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In this bill, good ideas are mixed with bad ones. Bad ideas are above all the ones that centralize this system today. Once more centralised, the system will also serve the governments in this shape, and unfortunately we are not sure what governments it will be, not necessarily the governments of the Confederation and the New Right. On the other hand, the good things that are here, like stopping these various rainbow organizations (the bell), could be introduced, but, by God, do not put it together in one project.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u154	Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ministers! The task of the school is to equalize the chances of poorer children and richer children. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: No, this is not a school assignment.]] The school's task is to ensure that children in disadvantaged areas, far away from the centres have the same opportunities for development, access to culture, but also full knowledge as these children are wealthier. The effect of the bill will be that wealthy people will move to non-public or international schools (the bell), and poor children will have limited access to NGOs and cultural institutions, because there the freezing effect will be much greater. It's painfully unfair. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u156	Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Why does the draft of changes in the Education Law process in the Seym include solutions that force the collection of additional documents and increase bureaucracy at school? The legal provisions that make it difficult to build a good school in particular show that you do not have confidence as a government in directors, teachers, parents and students. Not for lex blacks. [[Applause]] [[There's no law.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u158	Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u159	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Through such laws as this one we are dealing in Poland completely not what we should be doing in the area of education, because the biggest challenges in education are also the size of classes, and the curriculum, but above all, that, as Barbara Nowack has just said, we are able to address education to these poorest children, from these least privileged families. It's discovering talent, it's creativity, it's empathy, it's skill. searching for information to teach children (the bell), that's teamwork. On the other hand, we are not dealing with these real challenges at all, we are simply dealing with the nonsense that you bring us here as draft laws. [[It's true. The opposition is dealing with nonsense.]] Question, Member. Local governments in Poland today are divided into those that add slightly more than 50% Or a little less than 50%. That's not a problem, either, which would be minimally... Thank you very much, Member. ...addressed in this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u160	The question was meant to be. Mr Sławomir Skwarek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u161	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is an undeniable right for parents to choose the education they consider best for their children. It's, of course, truism. In practice, this was not always the case, especially for the power of the PO-PSL. As a longtime teacher, the head of a school under the local government, which had been decommissioned by the left from the SLD, I have repeatedly encountered the problem of closing rural schools against my parents. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Minister (Ring) about the article. 89 law, why the government decided what were the grounds for detailing the rules governing the school's liquidation procedure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After many changes introduced by the government of PiS Polish education, Polish education was in a crisis situation. We know that very well. The Polish school is not prepared for the challenges of the future. There has been a fall in the material status of the teacher. Does this project respond to these challenges, to this crisis of Polish education? Absolutely not, he's next door. This project is intended to secure (the bell) the interests of the governing party. This is an attempt to get PiS personnel into schools, which has so far been blocked by the local government. This will not improve the situation of Polish education, it will kill Polish education. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u164	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In Amendment 4. This law gives municipalities the opportunity to organize transports to schools even when they are not obliged. There is a group of students who in the normal general system cannot finish this school and pursues the so-called. admission to the occupation as part of the Volunteer Workers' Party. They do this by becoming a professional and end up in primary or public school or non-public school. And here, unfortunately, there is no refund (the bell) for accessing schools for these students. I wanted to ask the Minister if he is familiar with this problem, because that means that he is limited to children with special needs to fulfil the school obligation, because the municipalities, without legal basis, do not want to reimburse their parents for these costs. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: In this project it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Władysław Kurowski, Law and Justice. [[Read it right.]] Gentlemen, if you'd like to talk, I'd like to see you in the cockroaches, not at a distance. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This project clarifies the rules on the participation of non-governmental organisations and associations in school work, and, most importantly, gives parents a real impact on what their children will learn, and this impact is confirmed by their signature, which is the first time written in the Educational Law in this project. My question concerns Art. 86. Minister, why is the school curator supposed to decide whether or not school activities run by non-governmental organisations can take place? And the second question is: What is the procedure for issuing opinions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You and Minister Czarnek dream of a school where no one asks questions. The teacher is only to indoctrinate a student who is to be the new constituents of Law and Justice. After the last election, Marshal Terlecki talked about how you lack the voices of young people, and the changes in the education you propose, that's what they are for. I ask Minister Czarnek, who announced that his parents would decide what kind of organization he would be able to go into school with (the bell) and why his parents would take this competence and give it to his clerk, the school curator. Why do you despise your parents so much? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u170	Mr Przemysław Koperski, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! What you want to do with the Polish school is implement Satan's plan. You want to force the Polish Sejm to make a pact where you play the devil's role with curator Nowak by your side. However, we have centuries-old Polish national traditions of fighting the devils. We know that you are afraid of Mickiewicz, his grandfathers, his Twardowski, you are afraid of Twardowsky, Baginski, Więckiewicz, you are afraid of truth, science and freedom. You make jokes and jokes about Polish students, parents (The Bell), teachers and local governments. When are you gonna stop doing hell in Polish schools and when are you gonna get religion out of school? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[But one thing has to do with the other, oh, people.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u172	Well, that's a brilliant substantive question. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u173	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The reform of Minister Przemysław Czarnek is the answer to what the Civic Platform and PSL have been doing for eight years. You fired 47 grand. Teachers, you've closed 1146 schools. [[7,000. Your junior high school is closed.]] We are strengthening the supervision of the Ministry and curators and I wish Mrs Barbara Nowak to be a model for another 15 curators, because she is an excellent person. [[You're full of shit.]] The way you mock, attack a woman, testify to yourself, and the school must be closed, absolutely (the bell) closed to your ideological rainbow organizations. School's supposed to teach, not indoctrinate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u174	Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u175	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is worth reminding that PiS has eliminated several thousand junior high schools. [[No, we didn't. We didn't eliminate anything.]] [[Seven.]] But the ideals of Solidarity, the ideals of August are freedom, equality and democracy. The ideals of August, the ideals of Solidarity, are praises of diversity. And that should be the Polish school. It's not centralised, it's not ideological, as Minister Czarnek wants it. Minister, you have no right to deny the value of solidarity to anyone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in this House, not only because you were only 4 years old at the time, but because your party buried these ideals. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u176	Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Convention on the Rights of the Child guarantees every child freedom of thought, conscience, religion and expression of his or her views. The Polish Constitution guarantees freedom and civil rights, such as freedom of expression, information acquisition and dissemination and freedom of conscience. Minister Czarnek and his inquisitors are trying to take it away from Polish children today, but I want to be very clear: young people and children in Polish schools know exactly what a free choice is and no minister will take it away from them. He is an excellent example of how not to act as Minister of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u178	Mr Kazimierz Moskal, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The school system is a complex system, there are many actors with many competences. I have, among others. Question: What should be the competence of pedagogical supervision, what competence of the lead authority? The school is an institution to keep the student safe. My question to the Minister is: How much of these regulations, which are, guarantee that this school by strengthening supervision (the bell) will be a school safe for the student? Because the student is the most important. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Grupiński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Power such as countries, when entering the swan's singing, is also experiencing an ideological increase. I hear you guys like romance, and I don't think romanticism likes you. I will quote a piece, slightly changed: the President, his party lordship, the President enters, and what he does not look - he wrinkled his eyebrows, looked through the sting. Ah, brightest president, ah, I can't, my voice is frozen, ah, thrill, sweat, chill (The bell) of the cold, ah, marshal, as for me turns back, and Members, court officials, ah, I die, I die, I'm buried, I'm rotten... [[Wrong scene, sir.]] [[Voice from the hall: This isn't a theater.]] ...and I get bugs, ridicule... [[Applause]] [[I think you've got the wrong job.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u182	I think you have the wrong profession, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u183	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Everything has actually been said. Mr. Nick's parole officer was wrong about the curia, and the curators were wrong about the Inquisitors. Minister Czarnek has the good of Polish school and Polish education for nothing. You lack the knowledge and idea of 21st century education. Today I appeal to all my former students, to my fellow teachers, to the directors: hold on and do your job. Minister Czarnek will pass away and only the stench will remain. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u184	God, what a... Member, woman. [[The woman on the left.]] Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u185	Amazing. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm gonna ask you a question right away. How the proposed solutions of the Article are designed. 55 laws will help improve the functioning of schools? I'm asking you to explain. Permanently, still, 100 times must be countered by the lies that appear here. It's the only thing that's gonna set us free. The truth will set us free. The lead authority and the supervisory authority shall be two authorities. The lead authority is responsible for preparing the school, the supervisory authority is primarily responsible for education. In the first place, he's responsible for the upbringing, the didactics. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's about patriotic upbringing, according to the principles of the Decalogue. [[Handcuffs.]] Satan's ideas? These are God's ideas. What words do you use? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u186	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. [[This is the effect of PRL education.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u187	This law limits the autonomy of local governments, parents, limits the autonomy of the school. This bill is the management of fear. The student is to fear a teacher, a principal's teacher, and the director is to fear a political guardian such as. Barbara Nowak. [[Have you read it?]] Why? To raise us only on the right political patriots who will go to vote for you. It's not about education, it's about political indoctrination. It's a return to the Polish People's Republic. This bill is a return to the Polish People's Republic. We're not authorized to do that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u188	Oh, my God. Member, this is not an election rally. This is the Seym. Mrs Anita Sowińska, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of this law is to intimidate teachers and teachers. If we add propaganda, which is being implemented in the form of an object of history and present, to the tool of intimidation, then we have a complete set. Lying propaganda and intimidation are the tools of totalitarian power. I'm a mother and I represent my parents here. We do not agree to the indoctrination of our children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We do not agree to the use of tools of totalitarian power in our homeland. [[Voice from the room: We do not agree to the sexualization of our children.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A weak parole officer is the dream of a total opposition. You're dreaming that no one can react to any problems in the school. It was visible under the rule of the Platform and the PSL, when schools were mass-decommissioned, and the probation officer had nothing to say. His voice was only reputable. We changed that in 2016. We've stopped the liquidation of schools by local governments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Time's up.]] Today, strengthening the probation officer is expected by both teachers and parents. It also came up at the school board meeting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u192	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to respond to Mr Dolata. Polish teachers asked me to do this, who say that school is not a place where a political curator carries out your sick political ideas. [[Voice from the room: Already?]] School is for a student. The point is that he can gain knowledge, develop passions, interests, so that he can find answers to questions that are important to him. One more thing. I was asked to say that. It was believed that Minister Zalewska, who started a deformity of education, was the worst minister in history. That's what the teachers thought until Minister Czarnek came along. Unfortunately, today (the bell) did not dispel these doubts with its conduct and behaviour in this Chamber. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u194	Thank you very much. Madam President, I would like to remind you that we are at the point of question, not at the point of statement. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club. You're welcome. [[Ma'am, you can't do this in 30 seconds.]] Mr President, is there something bothering you? Then leave. [[The PiS is bothering us.]] Then leave. You don't have to sit here. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u195	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! We know perfectly well what the PiS plan is for Polish education. Marshal Terlecki was talking about it. It's about formatting young people so they can vote for law and justice. It is to be served by enslaved directors, who at one time at the beck and call of their favorite curator, Mrs Barbary Nowak, will not send their children to the theatre at Mickiewicz's Departments. But is it really? I feel most sorry for the children. Minister! Do you really feel sorry for children who are deprived of their ability to think on their own and need to think in the way you want to inoculate them? [[Applause]] [[What are you saying?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u196	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u197	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I am astonished by the great hysteria of the opposition Members, especially as the statements of the opposition Members show that they simply do not know the content of this document. Finally, read the bill and then speak. [[Voice from the hall: What do you say for stupidity?]] Minister! Will the provisions contained in the project enhance the effectiveness of pedagogical supervision? Will they allow for the elimination of such gross irregularities as evasion of the recommendations made by school curators in the event of non-compliance with the law and (The bell) e.g. the cases that have taken place with regard to the dismissal of school heads by local authorities without termination of the employment contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u198	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns reality, everyday life after the entry into force of this law. If it comes into force, the Polish school will become very sad. Imagine that it is half a year old, and in Polish school boys stop playing soccer for 2 months, children stop learning to play instruments, volunteers stop helping, because everyone will have to submit applications for registration, consent, opinion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The voice from the hall: What foolishness you are telling.]] This will also be the case in future years. [[But that is not true, my fellow Member.]] I ask you to answer the question of whether every year scouting, volunteering, sports teams will submit applications and wait for an opinion or once. [[You weren't listening.]] What's it gonna be like this year? We ask for concrete details about this reality - not big words, that it will be great, just concrete as it really will be. [[Voice from the Chamber: Madame, really.]] Thank you, Madame, you have already asked the question and the question has been understood. Will organizations be able to work with children? Thank you very much. [[Mrs Boy Scouts are excluded from this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u200	Mr Robert Obaz, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u201	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a representative of Poles and Poles, I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question, because it was to him yesterday that representatives of teachers' organisations, trade unions of education, local corporations and local government and social organizations sent a letter asking them to withdraw from the educational law changes improving the competences of curators who took away the autonomy of students, pupils, parents and schools, as well as restricting the competences of local authorities in the way schools work and their networks (the bell), changes in the basis of the programme eliminating knowledge of society in secondary schools and introducing the subject matter of history and present, to withdraw from the introduction of criminal sanctions to directors of institutions into Education Law. 100% I agree with the points in the appeal, and therefore I ask: Prime Minister, what is your position on this appeal? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u202	Thank you very much. Mrs Mirosława Stachowiak-Różecka, Law and Justice. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u203	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have indeed noticed that we have a problem with counting the majority in this House. For you to violate the majority and the will of your parents is to postpone deciding what is going on in school, from the advice of your parents, where there are several, several, for the whole board, i.e. to decide which additional activities his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/his/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/his/her/her/his/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/es. So just count 300 people, 400 people, 500 people... [[But that's not the point.]] [[Keep it down, don't disturb me.]] ...all parents (the bell) and dozens of people on the parents' council. [[That's not the point. You know that.]] And one last thing. Minister, please remind me of the article. 6 Teacher Cards, if I remember correctly, about the teacher's duties, because it is you who doubt teachers, believing deeply that only NGOs are able to work with our children, not the teacher. [[The teacher doesn't have time, he fills out the papers.]] Thank you. It's questioning the role of teacher. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u204	Thank you very much. Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u205	The Minister spoke of pluralism, and in the meantime, the Minister wants it not to be parents, students, teachers, party nominators, school curators who decide what will happen in schools, who, like you, are driven by ideological, anti-scientific clues. It's not democracy, it's not education, it's extremely right-wing, stupid and dumb indoctrination. Young people will show you how they treat those who try to indoctrinate them stupidly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u206	Thank you. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice. [[And why are you selling Lotus to the Russians?]] Sir, do you have a problem? [[So you sell lotus to the Russians. That's the problem - real.]] [[Why don't you know what year it is?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u207	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm listening very carefully, ladies and gentlemen, and I don't know, I think we're working on two different prints on the education committee, because you're talking about things that aren't there. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But I didn't bother you. A little more culture is needed to teach others. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Keep your voice down!]] Tell me, Minister, or change the article. 86, when it comes to organising extracurricular activities, minimises the role of director. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because the opposition claims that the Law and Justice of all rights of parents, students, teachers are being removed. Ladies and gentlemen, reading with understanding is an essential basis for education. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[You have to start with each other.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u208	But not everyone understands that. Please, Mrs Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u209	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The arrogance and mentoring tone of Minister Czarnek present today are the announcement of how life will soon be at the Polish school - unfortunately. I will not be particularly concerned with the example of virtue: the probation officer you know here, but I would like to tell you that your probation officer has refused, for example. closing a bust where there were no children at all. The building was falling apart, there was no central heating furnace, your parole officer didn't see it at all, but she refused. No, because that's how it's gonna be. Teachers are waiting for your censoring (the bell), for greater authority of the curator as well as the carp for Christmas Eve. You build a system of segregation, a system of control and censorship instead of trust, and education without trust is training. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u210	Madam, there was not even one question here. Mr Maciej Necessary, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, we could be happy because, at least since Minister Giertych's time, it is known that nothing encourages young people to leave like a dull, right-wing indoctrination, but unfortunately there is nothing to enjoy, because the cost of this scandalous reform will be borne by all and they will be measured in a substantial part mainly by these departures from public education, by the departures of good directors, teachers who consider that under these conditions they are not able to work honestly and in accordance with their own conscience. It will be the cost of this reform (the bell), which will be hell to catch up on. I only have one question - and I'm very curious - whether you will send your children to your trashed school. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u212	Member Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice. Politely, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u213	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question concerns Art. 127 and Article 127 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2013 laying down the rules and These articles concern the change in the organisation of individual annual pre-school preparation, teaching, training of children and young people staying in medicinal entities, because children, even though they are sick (the bell), also need to continue their education. What is the purpose and objectives of making changes in this area, and in what specific situations will these changes be used? [[Some people have 20 seconds more.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I'd like to say hello. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u214	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u215	Minister Czarnek! Have you ever asked yourself what young people, young people, students think of you, Mrs. Nowak? After all, they do not understand what language you speak to them. [[Applause]] [[Eight stars.]] The paradox is that they, looking at you, feel like they're learning about you at school. Because as you read the Sisyphean works, it's exactly about you. You are exactly like those Tsarian teachers who raided the Polish language, just as you are raiding NGOs today. I hope that some Polish writer, maybe Żulczyk (The Bell) for example, will one day write about you new Sisyphean works... Thank you, sir. ...and that these new Sisyphean works will someday become a reading - what was the school for the Black. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u216	Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u217	Mrs. Marshal! The works of 19th-century Catholic priests, which do not lose their news and can become an inspiration for the reform of the Polish education system, from the Institute of National Thought Heritage. Roman Dmowski. Catechism builds the virtue of a young man... [[It's like that bishop.]] ...punishment protects you from going into loose conduct and frolicking. This is training teachers' competence or spreading the sexual obsession of seminarians at the expense of the Ministry of Culture? Is this how teachers are supposed to be trained (the bell) according to lex Czarnek? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u218	Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u219	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I knew that in Poland 2050 was not doing well. But as I heard from Mr Grammar today... [[It was a good Christmas. It's gonna hit the button.]] ...that there's something going on in the world of Simon the Hollowhouse, and you guys are really out into space, and I'm starting to fear you guys, and I'm kind of scared for you guys. As for your escorts, I think you could have an enchanted pencil instead of your escorts. When it comes to this enchanted pencil from a fairy tale, one could conclude, it could be done to draw such a thing: I care about Polish school... [[You're the man of the fairy tale.]] ...I care about Polish families, I care about Polish children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You've run out of it. On the other hand, as for PSL, I would like to ask you one question: What would have happened if this law had not been in place and for example. One of the MEPs would come and say... [[What kind of question is that?]] Thank you, sir. ...that she wants to discuss it, like, I don't want you to... Thank you very much, sir. ...breeding animals, etc.? Or would you do it?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u220	The questions are for the Minister, not for Members. Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice. [[Your marshal, it's a little embarrassing, though, isn't it?]] Members, please calm your emotions, okay? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! School is a very important place in the life of a young man. Parents, choosing a type of school together with their children, resist, among others. on the results of education, but also on the assessment of other parents of pupils. We are proceeding on the draft law on amending the law - Educational law. My question concerns the role of parents. Are amendments introduced to the Act - Educational Law to strengthen or weaken the role of parents in the education system? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u222	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Coalition. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u223	Did something go on in there? No, no, no, it's... But it bothers me. You know, I don't turn it on and off, really. That's why I waited. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today Polish school according to this government is to be ruled by curators. You all know what your parole officer Nowak has done, and I won't mention it. But I don't know if you know that Mrs. Bielang's Pomeranian parole officer in Pomeranian has proven the charges of mobbing in the parole office - she bullied, humiliated and sought hookes on her coworkers. I don't know if you know that Artur P., head of the Tarnów delegation of the Małopolska school curatorium, was convicted of abuse of his wife. Such people are to rule in Polish schools today, to decide the fate and future of Polish children. We don't agree to that. But I want to ask the Minister one thing: aren't you just ashamed? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u224	Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice. Oh, I'm sorry, Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the Left Club. Excuse me, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u225	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Czarnek tells us here that this bill will not limit the influence of parents on after-school activities, on the contrary, he claims that it is exactly the opposite. And that's very interesting, because according to your project parents and schools will be able to make decisions, but only ones that will be in line with the views of the curatoria and ministry. How did it work out to you that this is more power for your parents than it is today? Because in my opinion, this is some kind of alternative version of logic. For this reason (Bingle) please answer in writing: How will parents and school management have more influence over decisions on extracurricular activities and on the choice of guests invited to school - psychologists, experts and educators? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u226	Thank you. Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u227	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Before I ask the Minister a question about the article. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3 of the proposed law on enhanced pedagogical supervision of non-public schools, I will turn to the respectable opposition, which unfortunately does not have a substantive idea for a good Polish school and that powerlessness left you with a hat, scaring parents, scaring teachers... [[We show them pictures of the Black Man and they're scared.]] ...and making a bad theater (the bell) from the seym hall. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u228	Thank you. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u229	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! From what key did you choose the authors of the basis of the program subject history and present? Because the PiS has a history, the president's history. Your school does not take into account the competence of teachers, but their party membership. I'm sure the Minister wants to raise his children as he wishes, and let him do it, just hope he doesn't hurt them. But you are also responsible for their upbringing, behavior and all actions (the bell) to reach adulthood. Let all the other parents do the same. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u230	Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u231	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister, I have information from my constituency, from the ZNP, information from Kutna, Zgierza, Pabianic, that the directors, for fear of the consequences of the implementation of this law, intend to refrain from any cooperation with social organisations. Is that supposed to be the hidden purpose of this project? Minister! You argued that the changes are dictated by concern for the welfare of the students, but, Minister, students need more psychological support, not more mixing (the bell) in the history teaching program, more security is needed for the students excluded, not the pope's encyclical, and more freedom is needed, not the dictation of radical curators. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u232	Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u233	Mrs. Marshal! Minister Czarnek! A friend of Stanisław Piotrowicz, attorney of martial law! Buddy Andrzej Kryża, convicting opponents as a judge! Friend of Wojciech Jasiński, a strong PZPR activist! Wouldn't it be easier to include a ban on anti-discrimination education in the law because you hate the LGBT community, a ban on equality education, because you don't recognise the rights of women and minorities, a ban on civic education, because you don't need conscious citizens, a ban on sexual education, because you're confusing it with sexuality, a ban on access to psychologists (the bell), because even today's statement by the Minister shows that depression is being underestimated to a great extent? Wouldn't it be easier, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u234	Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Just because more people decide something doesn't mean it's better. 'Cause I don't know a body like that, 20 and 30, so let's say they're parents who come to one sentence. about what kind of organization extracurricular activities can be conducted. On the contrary, there will be more contradictions. It's an illusion that this is a better democracy, because more people are more contradictions. And what are you gonna do with people who want one, not another organization, and most of them won't let that happen? This is democracy. In your edition? [[Voice from the hall: Who says? Look who's talking.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u236	Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u237	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Let's look at the morale of those from whom you will soon make the real rulers of the Polish school. Do you remember that the present curator of Łódź has become famous for his vulgarism? Do you remember that his predecessor fired him personally, the Deputy Minister of Education, in the middle of a pandemic, talking about the LGBT virus, which is more dangerous than the COVID-19 virus? Do you finally remember the contempt that the present Małopolska curator gives to all (the bell) people? Do you remember that the current constitutional minister of this government said that he had no sense? Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember... But, sir, these are questions to the Minister, not to you. Do you remember this country, and is it that such people are to rule the school today, the ages, but the faithful? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u238	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Osos, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u239	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I wonder what wrong Polish children have done to you, that you offer them such a school. Education is the foundation for future life. Thus, instead of facing challenges and teaching how to live in a dynamically developing world, to teach practice, to focus on skills and passion, you are aiming for the future of Polish society to be a flock of obedient rams? Hence the most important object is the history written by the rulers? That's why you put a leash on the directors so they don't go out of the front door (the bell) imposed a frame? Civic education, sexual education, environmental education - forget it, unnecessary. Because it's indoctrination that counts, not inspiration. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u240	Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to receive an answer to a question about the activities in schools of organisations and other associations, various kinds of associations. Aren't the current solutions sufficient for school not to have random or bad, undesirable quality information? Is there still a need for an education curator's opinion? This opinion shall not be required in the case of activities carried out in the context of tasks outsourced to the government. So I have a question: Will the parent have the right to decide whether to participate in these activities of his child? How will (the bell) influence the child's ability to participate in these activities or not? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u242	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dictatorship, cynicism and return to the Polish People's Republic - is a vision of education according to Minister Czarnek. What's gonna matter now? Political correctness of the director? The teaching content corrected by the PiS and only correct? This is a terrifying scenario for Polish democracy. It's a terrifying scenario for students who will be robbed of the truth. It's a terrifying scenario for school heads and teachers whose invention is limited. This is a script from hell. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u244	Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The very fact of proceding this legislative monster, lex Czarnek, is a scandal. You want to change the education system, and you ignore the voice of those who create the school, i.e. teachers and teachers, students and their parents. But I'll tell you one thing: despite all your urges, despite your desire for total control, you will not succeed. Young people are smart, you can't indoctrinate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it will turn against you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u246	Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u247	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The participation of students of senior classes of primary school in a meeting devoted to popularization of the Polish Constitution and its application is according to the Małopolska curator of education a crime against the safety of children. I repeat: the education curator believes that knowledge of the rights and obligations of every citizen and state body is harmful to young people. One of the tasks of the school is to shape pro-social attitudes and enable them to participate actively (The Bell) in public life. Why do you want to limit the development of students? Is it because it is easier to rule a nation that is unaware of its rights? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u248	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Black! Can you hear us? I don't think so. On the basis of this bill, you want to get people like your parole officer Nowak to throw any anti-vaccine nonsense into their children's head. 100,000. COVID victims, and you're holding an anti-vaccine in the government administration. It's a disgrace and it's a scandal. You're gonna answer for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u250	Is that a threat, sir? Why don't we talk about Chełmoński's paintings? Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to ask you why you want to take our children back to the Polish People's Republic in development by putting a muzzle in schools and hitting their autonomy. PiS wants to reform the Polish school so that it becomes the forge of their voters, i.e. to model our children. It is to be right-wing, Catholic, and the teaching of our children will not be taken care of by teachers and parents as it is now (The Bell), but extremely right-wing environments of Ordo Iuris. And Minister Czarnek in all this. He's kidding us that it's the parents who decide. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u252	Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is an attack on self-government, open and modern schools, violates the rights of parents, children and young people, deepens inequalities and hinders the work of teachers. In facilities after these changes there will be no place for modernity, for your own opinion, to search for an individual path of development. There will be fear, intolerance, disregard for the rights and needs of the individual. How can you not be ashamed of the prosperous (Bell) and the high-ranking Polish school in Europe and the world be marginalized? What about the rules for raising the penny? You guys gonna keep going in denial or are you gonna listen to the social side and lighten the rules on this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u254	Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Czarnek! Are you really able to sacrifice the future of nearly 5 million students, children and young people, in Poland on the altar of your sick visions and on the altar of Fr. Tadeusz Rydzyk's vision, the same one that, contrary to the opinions of teachers and students, spoke not so long ago about you as the best minister since World War II? Minister, who will really benefit from this reform? I don't think anybody, just you and the school counselors, really 17 people (the bell) in the state. Informally 18th person will be Tadeusz Rydzyk. Who's gonna lose it? Ladies and gentlemen, they will all be lost. They will lose students, their parents, teachers and school heads. Minister Czarnek, your reform puts the whole school on its head, which is why it should be thrown in the trash immediately. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u256	Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. There isn't? Barbara Dolniak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After Minister Czarnek's speech, I have a question: what democracy are you talking about when you don't even know what that means? What democracy are you talking about when you want to deprive students, parents and teachers of the ability to decide for themselves? What school in the 21st century are you talking about when you want to deprive your students of their ability to learn self-think, their ability to make decisions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You want your parents to decide, but you're really giving authority to probation officers who are government representatives who can't make a specific decision these days, for example, about the probation officer when one minister says he needs to be called off and the other leaves him in office. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u258	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u259	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Mr. Messenger. Polish culture and Polish education since 2015 have been occupied by the PiS state. Therefore, today, each of us must answer the question of what country he wants to live in: in a democratic country or in a Fascinating State of PiS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u260	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have this question: If this draft law, or government position, interferes so much in the life of the school, in the organisation of the school, in everything that happens in the school, then when will the government take over the full financing of the expenses associated with the operation of individual schools? Why should local governments pay for the maintenance of schools that will have no impact on their activities? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking for an answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u262	Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u263	Minister! This law from public school makes Mr. Czarnek's academy, releasing a very ugly propaganda clutter to his students for a notebook, or what else to call this government program.: PiS-boat in every school. Worse still, this year's issues of prom work were also leaked from the subject of the title of HIT, i.e. heresy and dullness. And the theme is: Who is the biggest Pole in Poland's history and why is it Jarosław Kaczyński? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: John Paul II.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u264	Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u265	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Instead of dealing with the most important things in the Polish school, you want to introduce ideology. It should be made clear that at the time of the commune there was less ideological pressure than after the introduction of lex Czarnek. School can't be another victim of PiS's evil reign. We do not agree that there will be more and more (the bell) ideologies and party decisions in the Polish school. You want to limit the role of self-government, but leave the responsibility the same. The cost of education is rising. What about more education, Minister? What about the higher salaries of the teachers, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u266	Thank you. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u267	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The truth is, this bill wants to turn education into darkness. You want curators to decide everything, and we in Małopolska know how it works in practice. Nowak's parole officer does indoctrination instead of education. Not education, not health is important to you, but poll posts. This indoctrination you're doing is to just pick up these poll posts. Why, instead of increasing the influence of parents, local government or the students themselves on what they learn at school (the bell), do you want to increase the participation of party guys in this? Why are you bringing back communist standards? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: This isn't a theater.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u268	Oh, my God. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u269	Mr. Liberty Man! Minister of Catholic Education! In school, let us not limit the voice of students, teachers, parents, directors or NGOs. For this, let us reduce religious indoctrination at school, historical politics only of the right party and nationalism, and, above all, let us finally eliminate the curatoria. Finland has done so and has the highest level of education in the world. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u270	Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u271	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the impression that the authors of this project have been deeply inspired by the scenario of the film "Goodbay Lenin!" Remember that movie? The deep yearning of the president of PiS for the commune, since he did not show up at that time in particular, made today, in 2022, you want to suppress all manifestations of freedom, self-government and creativity and to give Poland a Polish bis with its propaganda, even in the field of education. [[Read the bill.]] I have a question for Minister Czarny, who isn't here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you know in what category the young people to whom this reform is to apply have assigned you the title of the year? What category is this, Minister Black? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u272	Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u273	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The frightening thing is that you rulers are going to usurp the right to everything today. Even to decide for parents how they want to raise their children. [[It's the other way around.]] What do you care? It's none of your business. It is the sole right of parents to decide how to raise their children, and the right of children to decide what passions and interests they want to develop. [[Don't recite the learned message.]] School is to be free, school is to be self-governing, democratic and modern, not based on the values you want to pass on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u274	Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The first teacher of the Republic of Poland after an arrogant, ridiculous, cynical speech left the pleural hall. That is also the education of Minister Czarnek. Minister Czarnek - I understand, it was supposed to be funny - he talked about corrupting content smuggled into school. I would propose to the Minister that he address his colleagues from the government because there has never been such a corrupting way of exercising public authority. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I just want to say one thing: recently in my town, the PiS-owski nominate has been pushed so hard to the post of high school principal. I'm very happy because he was chased by teachers, by parents, by students. Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u276	Well, thank you very much, Member. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition. Let me remind you that we are at the point of questioning. Okay? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u277	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Małopolska curator of education for 7 weeks blocks the investigation of the PiS policy teacher from Myślenice, who harasss and mobs students. Schoolgirls say they're bullied and verbally humiliated in class. They are addressed to them: where you were scoundrels last weekend; you are to be in my sight, for you will return with the child; you are retarded; you run like a bunch of queers. Do you believe that such a person needs to be further enhanced? Should a person with signs of insanity have even more competence than today? When's the resignation? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u278	We've got a lot of people here with signs of insanity. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u279	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is another bill that shows your fear. You don't trust anyone: you don't trust the teachers, you don't trust the directors, you don't trust the parents, you don't trust the kids, you don't trust the local government. You're dreaming of a school where there'll be full enslavement, full surveillance, enhanced surveillance, a school that you'll manually control straight from Nowogrodzka. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You don't respect teachers and students. You don't give enough money to school. You don't let kids spread their wings. But we have great teachers, we have talented young people, capable kids. I want to tell you one thing: what you're gonna ruin today is we're gonna fix it. But what you're about to destroy, unfortunately, sometimes will be un-- [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u280	Mr President, the question is: This isn't a statement. Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u281	I have a question for Members of the PiS: Why are you lying? Because I can't believe you can't read. Just because Minister Czarnek doesn't understand what he wrote in this bill, I can understand. But why are you lying to your parents? Parents can sign thousands of papers, they can demand different activities, but the final decision is made by the probation officer. And that's what the parole officer tells his parents: no. Why do the PIS Members not have the courage to say this directly to their parents? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more question: What about student self-governments? Young people are asking us if they can meet Judge Tuley, if they can talk about the constitution, because today the directors are afraid to organise such meetings at the school at the request of the local government. You gag school's mouth, you gag your parents' mouths. And you're lying. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u282	Thank you very much. Because the school should not serve political meetings, Madame Member. With a political judge - certainly not. [[But with the PiS Member, they can meet.]] Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u283	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 105 suicide attempts. There were so many attempts among children and young people by the Małopolska Police between January and September 2021. Including five attempts, children between the ages of 7 and 12. What action has the Małopolska curatorium taken in this regard? We don't know, but your parole officer managed to attack the LGBT youth in the broadcasts and review a show she hadn't seen. And this is the person you want to give even more power over the Lesser Poland schools? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u284	Thank you very much. Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u285	You're turning things upside down because you don't know history. The story is that if schools were decentralised and passed on to local governments in 1990, there would be more subsidies, but it would be left, the Polish Teachers' Union and then ZSL, then PSL, were against it. In 1994, schools were to be transferred, but PSL again with the left, with the SLD blocked this transfer. They were only handed over in 1996 and then the subsidy was significantly reduced by you. And that's the truth. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But now it's about this: schools were handed over to the leading authorities, whereas the issues of the curriculum basis, the textbooks - this is the role of pedagogical supervision, not of local governments. Thank you very much, sir. Think about it. You want to introduce this kind of ideology into... Mr President, in this part of the point, Members are asking questions and we are finishing it right now. Thank you very much. ...schools, so that local governments have textbooks to write or decide on programming issues? This is unacceptable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u286	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science of Minister Dariusz Piontkowski to answer his questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When I listened to Members of the opposition clubs, I had the impression, like one of the Members, that either you have not read the bill or are deliberately trying to manipulate those who listen to the debate. [[Don't lie to me.]] You're talking about things you've dreamed of, you've read in party or club propaganda speeches, or things you're just trying to tell us that they're in the bill. Firstly, it must be made clear that this bill offers several new opportunities, reacts to certain gaps that have been in place for a long time. We've been taking advantage of the experience of the last few months. This is about the possibility of introducing remote learning in situations where the school cannot function, for example. There's a storm, a storm that partially destroyed the building, and you can't go on with your fixed education there. A remote learning obligation has been introduced if such a gap would last more than 3 days. Similarly, I answer the question of one of my fellow Members here - there is the possibility of remote learning in the case of individual teaching or children who are in medical establishments. These are elements that take advantage of the epidemic experience, and that's what you haven't even heard about, talking about this bill. Part of the provisions on the establishment of military preparations units of high popularity should also have been clarified. There we introduce pedagogical supervision similar to that of the curator of general education schools, and the Minister of National Defence - to the preparation of the military. We also regulate the creation of an artistic school branch, which has not yet been regulated. In fact, they could not be created according to the law, and yet such schools were created. This had to be regulated, allowing local governments to reach an agreement with the Minister of Culture. It is also a response to the suggestions of local authorities to give even more time to prepare the rooms in which preschool units operating at schools are located. We're extending the time to adapt these rooms for another two years. The biggest part of the discussion was really about two subjects: the role of guardian and the role of parents at school. And with this in mind, it must be made clear that the state has a very different view of how the state should function. Listening to you, I have the impression that the state should abdicate from all its competences also in the field of education. The only thing you would like to propose - I am using the term one of the Members here - is to liquidate all state institutions and act in accordance with the principle laid down by one of the activists: do what you want. At one time, the Civic Coalition had already proposed the liquidation of the probation officer's office, considering that the State should give up any influence on what is happening in schools and pass on It's completely self-government and NGO. [[You can always sell the idea to the Russians.]] Mr President, I have not disturbed you, and it would be worthwhile for you to maintain a culture as well. You behaved very unsympathetic, insulted here, among others. Minister Czarnek, you have used unworthy, vulgar and rude words, and now you are demanding that we speak culturally. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[What vulgar ones?]] But, sir, I have not interrupted you, so please listen to me calmly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I understand that we differ in our views, also on this bill, but please show at least so much culture. Please be tolerant, as you are constantly calling for, and also allow the thinking people to express their thoughts differently. [[But you're talking to us.]] As far as the role of guardian is concerned, this law gives only powers similar to those already held by the managing authority, i.e. local authorities, so as to be able to respond to irregularities that may arise in schools. Fortunately, they appear occasionally. The State in its questions to the curators has been informed that the need to respond to illegal activities is fortunately very rare. Until now, the mayor, mayor, or president, may have even called off such a director. So far, the curator has not had such authority, even if he has repeatedly issued recommendations in which he reminded that e.g. The head of the school should comply with the provisions of the Education Law that it should ensure the safety of children or that children are in preschool or I-III classes. These are authentic records from the recommendations made by school curators or visitors after school checks. Today, you want to prevent the school curator from responding to such extreme situations. Extreme and individual. I'll say it again. There will be nothing you suggest, some, I don't know, mass dismissal of directors. The same applies to non-public schools. One of your fellow Members asked that question. Unfortunately, there are non-public schools that do not want to continue their studies, which do not give students a chance to finish their school, do not even give them a chance to check the documentation that says that the school is functioning properly. And here we're giving the parole officer a chance to respond to this kind of, few fortunately, situations. The school curator has the right to do so and should, in accordance with the law in force in Poland, check how the law is implemented, how teaching, educational and caring duties are performed. Listening to you, I have the impression that you would like non-governmental organisations to replace the school so that non-governmental organisations react in difficult situations so that representatives of non-governmental organisations raise children against the responsibility of the teacher and against the tasks of the school. After all, what you said today is really repeating what a teacher should be doing at school today. It's about art. 6 Teacher Cards: The teacher should carry out the tasks related to the positions entrusted to him and the basic functions of the school: teaching, education and care, including the tasks related to ensuring the safety of students during classes organized by the school. And you would like NGOs to come here instead of teachers. The teacher is also to support every student in his development. We do not change this, nor do most of the entries in the Teacher's Charter, Educational Law or the Education System Act. The teacher also has a duty to pursue his own personal development, to improve himself professionally, to educate and raise young people in love with his homeland, and while listening to you, I feel that if the teacher prepares a student to love his country, that he wants to raise him as a patriot, then you try to say that this is nationalism. It's a fake. [[But what are you saying, Minister?]] The teacher is also to raise in respect of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, in an atmosphere of freedom of conscience and respect for every person. [[But when the kids went to a constitutional lecture, you wanted to change the director.]] We do not change such a thing, these are the provisions of the law that still apply, and no draft law coming out of Law and Justice or with the support of Law and Justice of these duties of the teacher and the tasks of the school does not change. The teacher also has a duty to maintain moral and civic attitudes among students in line with the idea of democracy, peace and friendship between people of different nations, races and worldviews. And we're not changing that record either. On the other hand, listening to some of the speeches, especially those of the Left, I feel that they are still traumatized and want to cut themselves off from their SLD roots. They keep talking about the indoctrination that was in the Polish People's Republic, the lack of democracy, the dictatorship. Indeed, it was in the times of the Polish People's Republic. The teacher could not teach about Katyn, could not teach about opposition, could not teach about soldiers cursed and many, many other things. Even Piłsudski was forbidden. And today, as I understand it, Members... [[Now you're forbidding Grandpas.]] ...about leftist or leftist roots just keep remembering their roots and still seeing the same creeps everywhere. When it comes to the role of parents. That's a very common question. Mr Czarnek mentioned in his speech that this law largely responds to requests and requests from parents. It is they who are concerned about the actions of some local governments, especially in large cities, when local governments, going beyond their powers... Because I would like to remind you that according to the law in Poland, local government is responsible for: administration of the school, financing, organisation of the school, quality of the rooms in which the students learn, construction, renovation of school buildings. Instead, some local governments are really trying, as you have said, to introduce elements of indoctrination in schools, to try to change the next generations of Poles into a prayer and ideas of the heads of government data. After all, these politicians, who are the mayors, mayors or city presidents, are trying to go beyond their roles today. And that's why our parents asked us to put a dam in place to introduce activities that parents simply don't want. That is why we have introduced two or three additional elements that have not yet been introduced. Firstly, any non-governmental organisation wishing to conduct classes with students must present a programme according to which classes will be carried out and materials that will be used during the course. Is there anything wrong with the fact that the materials and the curriculum will then be presented to parents so that they can fully consciously decide whether or not their child is going to attend these classes? [[If this class is even there, or the probation officer will allow it.]] We believe that the parent has every right to know what activities his child is going to attend. We have also introduced an additional probation officer's opinion to verify that the extracurricular programme meets the conditions set out in the article. 1 Act - Educational law, whether it is a program and whether it is classes suitable for the age and development achieved by children and students, or... [[The probation officer knows better than the parent.]] ...this class will support through school the role of family, or upbringing as a class... [[There used to be a big brother, and now there's a big parole officer.]] ...helping the child develop to full physical, mental and social maturity... [[That's exactly what the communists argued.]] Dear Mrs Shumilas, I ask you very much to calm down and listen to what the Minister has to say. You've asked questions, given the opportunity to answer. You're welcome. [[Tell me the truth, you want to stop class on school grounds.]] State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science Dariusz Piontkowski: In its opinion, the curator will also check whether the content offered by NGOs is tailored to the psychophysical capabilities of children. Is this kind of review of the programme and the material offered by NGOs according to you a bad thing? Doesn't a parent deserve to have an additional opinion of professionals who will tell him, suggest whether they are good classes for their children? [[If the parent wants to, he doesn't need your rights.]] Eventually, the parent will still have to give his consent in writing to have his underage child take part in extracurricular activities. There hasn't been such an obligation so far. The state is simply trying to shout the truth and what is written in this law. It is not true that those who shout louder are right, and unfortunately the state is trying to apply this idiotic principle. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] This law therefore introduces additional powers for parents and protects them from indoctrination. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mrs Shumilas, Mrs Lubnauer, ladies alternately like bribes, I apologize very much, at the bazaar. [[Voice from the room: Even worse.]] This is the Sejm, this is the parliament, this is the plenary room. [[Like your friends said, you didn't react.]] There's a minister. You're welcome, Minister, to proceed. State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science Dariusz Piontkowski: So this law gives parents additional tools that allow them to raise their children according to their world view and how they want to raise their children. I would like to remind you that in this case, the school only serves as an auxiliary function. Some of you, some of the politicians representing your parties, who have power in local governments, would like otherwise, these people would like to indoctrinate young people. [[And you're lying.]] This law also offers an opportunity to respond to emergency situations. We have already talked about the ability of school heads to respond to the violation of law, but it is also about the violation of law by local governments. Today, local government authorities can call off the head of the school in special situations. Happily, this is rare, but these authorities often do not take advantage of the probation officer's opinion. Today, the probation officer is of the opinion that there have been grounds for dismissing the director. And what are your teammates from the local government doing? Not listening to the probation officer's opinion, not checking whether the legal conditions actually existed, dismissing the directors and then losing in court. Also in my voivodship and in other voivodships such cases take place. We want to put an end to this and make sure that the probation officer has the right to decide on this. As I said, it is a chance for a curator who supervises the most important part of the school's functioning, i.e. teaching, educational and caring, to finally be able to react to irregularities, so that it is not so that politically empowered heads of local government politicize the school, make heads dependent on each other. You're looking at the situation where the Platformed President appoints his directors. [[This president was elected by these parents. And you're not.]] You don't want balance in the competition committees. You want school heads to really be party officers. This law restores order at school, gives parents more powers, allows them to respond to possible bad developments at school, introduces modern teaching methods if there is an emergency at school. It is worth supporting this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u288	Thank you kindly, Minister. Mrs Teresa Wargock, as rapporteur, also asked for an opportunity to answer the questions raised. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In principle, the discussion in the plenary room did not differ from that at the first reading of the last meeting. There are amendments tabled, there is a request for rejection. Tomorrow at hours. We'll continue to process 10. I just wanted to share one more reflection with you, because I do not expect anything else at the committee meeting tomorrow, that you have already convinced me, but also many parents, that the solution that the school curator expresses his views on the content of the classes with students is very good, because I cannot imagine a Polish school where parents who have different views, who have different ways of raising their children, meet in the classroom and are subjected to such pressures, manipulations and lies as you Members are doing at the moment. There are really signals that come to us, Members of Law and Justice. President Trzaskowski sends a letter to the school principal: it is recommended that such and such classes be conducted at school. What does the school principal do? He's doing everything he can to accomplish this class, to obey, to follow orders. And what do the principal and teacher of this school do? They're either misleading parents, or those parents who don't want sex education are branded, pointing out at school, and they really don't have a chance to defend their right to raise their children. That's how your system works. Thank you very much for this bill, thank you for your competence for the probation officer. Really let the kids at school feel safe, let them grow, deepen their knowledge, and really let them grow into good citizens and happy people, good fathers, good mothers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u290	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment and the proposal to reject the second reading were tabled to the draft law, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on National Defence to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Law - Water Law and certain other laws (prints No 1843 and 1851). I kindly ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u291	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I present a report on the draft Parliamentary Law amending the Act - Water Law and some other laws. The draft is contained in print No 1843, and the committee's report is in print No 1851. This draft law amends the Act of 20 July 2017 - Water Law, the Act of 19 July 2019 amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and certain other laws, as well as the Act of 13 February 2020 on the amendment of the Act - Construction Law and certain other laws. High Izbo! The aim of the project is to decide which provisions are to be applied in the proceedings concerning the environmental conditions which were issued before the decision to establish the location of the investment in the construction of a nuclear power plant, issued on the basis of a speciality of 29 June 2011, in respect of which the investor has already requested a decision on the environmental conditions. The aim is to ensure that the environmental procedures to which this investment is subject are carried out in accordance with the law currently in force for all other investments. The procedure for issuing decisions on environmental conditions for the construction and operation of the first Polish nuclear power plant was initiated at the request made in 2015. The environmental impact assessment for such a project - which can always have a significant impact on the environment - requires the verification of the environmental impact report, and therefore in 2015 the investor requested that the scope of such a report be determined. The competent authority has issued a provision specifying the scope of the report, as well as a provision to suspend proceedings on the issue of environmental considerations until the investor has submitted a report on environmental impact. The report after these few years is ready, the proceedings may be suspended, the competent authority may proceed with the adoption of decisions on environmental conditions, but since 2015, the provisions mentioned by me at the beginning of the laws have changed in a very important way. Failure to take these changes into account in the proceedings will result in its failure, inefficiency and delays, and that is not what we want. Administration should be efficient, effective. I would like to remind you that the Act - Water Law adopted on 20 July 2017, a very extensive law, probably the most extensive in the last term of the Sejm, the Act for which I was rapporteur, implemented eight directives, amended 45 laws in force, including - Article. 509 - to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. There have also been amendments to the Law - Construction Law and, as I say, many other laws. As far as the transitional and final provisions are concerned, there were 50 articles in this law finally adopted on 20 July 2017 and 19 laws amending the Water Law have been adopted since 20 July 2017. High Izbo! All the laws, the regulations of which standardize the localisation procedure, have been amended several times since 2015. In the Law referred to in Article. 2 of this print project No 1843, i.e. the Act of 19 July 2019 amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments - that was print No 3616 in the last term - has been fully transposed by the Evaluation Directive, i.e. Directive 2011/92/EU. It is not, therefore, as the opposition Members held in the debate that we had in the first reading of the joint committee, that the draft print law 1843 narrows down the public's participation in procedures, that the fact that we will apply the current wording narrows down the public's participation in procedures, that the inhabitants of the places where the investment will be located will not have access to the localisation procedure, and it is not true that environmental organisations will have difficult access to the conduct. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that the issue of the participation of social factors was raised by the European Commission in relation to the specialities and that this procedure is completed after the changes have been made. Here we are dealing with the so-called. Comfort letter, which is the closure of this procedure and the recognition that everything is in order in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, this Parliamentary print project 1843 does not address this issue at all. On the basis of my experience with working in the environmental committee, I will say that it is quite the opposite, because one of the environmental laws examined in the environmental committee a few months ago just increases the power to participate in court proceedings, environmental proceedings for environmental organisations. So that all that the opposition is saying here is unfortunately just fairy tales, I do not hesitate to use that word. That's another line. Act of 19 July 2019, which I refer to, amended in Article. 2 amended the technical regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, this 2019 amendment has led to a change in the decision-making bodies. The rules for establishing the parties have also changed, and in this respect the determining parameter has become the distance from the planned investment and not, as previously in the legislation, the numbers from the land register of neighbouring parcels. It was a very bad solution, because sometimes the party was someone whose site was 5 km away from the planned investment, because that was the configuration of the neighboring plot, and it had to be notified, and the person living or living even close to the investment, but who was separated from it by the road, was not a party. So these were just very unreasonable regulations, which have been changed and rightly, because they better protect the rights of neighbours of various kinds of investments. High Izbo! In turn, the law which is amended in Article. 3 projects, i.e. The Law of 13 February 2020 introduced the digitisation of procedures in the field of construction law and the Law on spatial planning and development. It regulates the technical aspects of the construction procedure, introduces the electronic form of documents. It is now difficult to turn back with the Vistula stick and to have analogue maps prepared for environmental management purposes, which we will then throw into the basket, because electronic maps with electronic signature reconciliation procedures will already have to be used in building law proceedings, etc. It would just be completely pointless. High Izbo! The project was addressed to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry. The first reading of the two committees took place on 15 December. Whereas the committees first rejected the objection to shortening the deadline for first reading. 10 people were opposed to shortening, 27 people were in favour of shortening the deadline. We've come to the first reading. At first reading, two single-sounding requests were made to reject the project at first reading. These claims were also rejected in the vote. Ten votes in favour, 32 against, with one abstention. A public hearing was also requested during the proceedings which was not supported by the joint committees. High Izbo! In the course of detailed work on the draft, legislators raised issues of a kind of bad legislative practice as regards the creation of provisions with retroactive effect, in particular as regards transitional provisions, where, in the case of the Law - Water Law as amended by Article. 1 project dates back 4 years. Similar reservations, i.e. distortions of legal certainty and contradictions with the principle of trust in the law created have been reported by legislators in relation to the article. 2 and 3 of the project, except that the 2019 and 2020 laws are being amended there, i.e. this period is slightly shorter. However, it must be noted with all responsibility that we are dealing with a change in the transitional provisions to a very narrow extent, as this concerns only one proceedings suspended since 2016. It is the procedure referred to in Article. 72. 1 point 18a of the Evaluation Act, because all articles refer to this provision. So there will be no legal chaos, as the Members of the opposition say. Legal chaos could be expected in the absence of the amendments discussed today, because of the three laws that we are amending, i.e. the Water Law, the law amending the 2019 Assessment Act and the law amending the construction law of 2020, part of it says that the new rules apply, and part of it says that the old rules apply. Thus, the conduct of proceedings in which each law, which is simply an integral part of the process of granting permission to enter the territory, says otherwise, would simply lead to legal chaos. I will say more because the period of suspension of environmental proceedings takes quite a long time, because from 2015 until now it is happily 6 years, the general environmental director would have to apply the evaluation rules of different years during this procedure, which would have been a completely sanctioned procedure. Therefore, High Izbo, the procedure for amending the transitional provisions is, by way of exception and carried out with caution, acceptable. I would like to remind you and stress that in a very narrow way and carefully this is the case in the bill discussed here. High Izbo! I'll be very brief, because I'm running out of time, about the changes that the bill will make to the procedure. It is about changing the formal requirements of the report on the environmental impact of the project. There will be a few of these changes, I will not dig into it, you have it described in the explanatory memorandum. These provisions will also prejudge that an application for a decision by the authority competent to issue an opinion on the environmental conditions for the implementation of the project, as set out in the Environmental Conditions Decision, may be submitted no earlier than 5 years after the date on which the decision on environmental conditions has become final. This will also change the catalogue of annexes to the application for environmental decisions, etc., etc. He's taking this into account in detail, and I'm not gonna quote it all. I would also like to draw attention to the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office attached to the project, in print No 1843, which explicitly states that the project is not contrary to Directive 2011/92/EU on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment, i.e. in conclusion: it is compatible with European law. High Izbo! The joint committees adopted the report on Draft Print Act No 1843 33 with 8 votes against and no abstentions. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I ask the High House to adopt a draft Parliamentary Law amending the Act - Water Law and certain other laws contained in the report of the Committee on Printing No 1851. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u292	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present the position of the club as regards the report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Law - Water Law and certain other laws, print No 1851. The purpose of the amendment is to decide which legal regime is to apply in the case of proceedings concerning a decision on environmental conditions issued before obtaining a decision to establish the location of investments in the construction of a nuclear plant issued under the Law of 29 June 2011 on the preparation and implementation of investments in nuclear installations and associated investments for which the investor has already requested a decision on environmental conditions. It should be pointed out that the only procedure for issuing decisions on environmental conditions for investments in the construction of a nuclear power plant, a project consisting of the construction and operation of the first nuclear power plant in the Republic of Poland, was initiated at the request of the investor submitted in 2015. So we're talking about one single situation, but it's extremely important. It is one of those that can always have a significant impact on the environment and therefore the environmental impact assessment in its case includes in particular the verification of the environmental impact report. The investor requested a provision setting out the scope of the report in 2015. In view of the above, the authority competent for the decision on environmental conditions has issued a provision specifying the scope of the report and a provision to suspend proceedings on environmental considerations until the investor has submitted a report on the environmental impact of the project. This is simply the order of these actions. Since 2015, the procedure for issuing the above mentioned document the decision remains suspended. During that period, the provisions on the basis of which the competent authorities have acted on the issue of environmental considerations have changed repeatedly and significantly. The transitional provisions accompanying these changes did not always take into account the specificities of the suspended procedure on decisions on environmental conditions for nuclear energy. Therefore, it was considered appropriate to introduce provisions updating the legal status to be taken into account when making decisions on the environmental conditions for this project. The amendments provided for in the proposed wording are intended to improve the process of issuing environmental decisions, including ensuring the participation of specialised bodies in the process of issuing that decision. It should be stressed that the proposed solution increases legal certainty on the part of administrative authorities and the parties to the proceedings for decisions. It is therefore necessary to amend the proposed amendments without delay. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice accepts the legal solutions proposed in the joint report of the Commission: Energy, Climate and State Assets and Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry, print 1851, as they will significantly speed up the formal preparation of the construction of a nuclear power plant in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u294	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Urszula Zielińska, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition. I kindly ask you to present your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens I have the honour to present a position regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the Act - Water Law and some other laws, prints No. 1843 and 1851. Ladies and gentlemen, we are quite theoretically debating here the amendment of the Act - Water Law, and in fact the project is related to the planned construction of a nuclear power plant. This is one specific investment decision at the request of one particular company, the 2015 proposal. Projectors would like the decision to be based on this investment not on the law in force at the time of the submission of the application in 2015, but on the law introduced 4 years later in 2019. In addition, they would like this right to be applied in a very selective way, choosing only certain articles from the 2019 legal regime and leaving others from 2015, at their own discretion. Why? That's a good question. In a country where the legislator would operate under the law, such a solution would be excluded, because the law cannot act backwards. Such an action would violate the principle of certainty, predictability, introduce an element of instability and unnecessary risk in investment processes. Unfortunately, this law is another proof that the Polish legislature has long since ceased to operate under the law. So what's her real purpose? I have reason to believe that the aim is, in short, to facilitate the process of granting permission to an investor with the maximum exclusion from the decision-making process of local residents in which a nuclear power plant in Poland would be set up. Why do I think so? With regard to the Member, I compared both legal regimes from 2015 and 2019 in very detail and this is what I found there. E.g. one of the fundamental changes in this amended act, in the evaluation act, is almost total blockage of public participation in the process of issuing environmental decisions, including decisions for investments potentially harmful to the environment and absolutely harmful to the environment, and we are talking about such an investment here. While in the old legal regime the right to be a party to the decision-making process, the right to court was granted to almost all residents neighbouring the investment, i.e. in this case with a nuclear power plant, but not after the 2019 amendment. This right was limited in 2019 only as regards residents living within a radius of only 100 m from the investment. In practice, this means that almost none of the inhabitants of Lubiatów, Kopalina in the municipality of Choczewo or other localities will have a real impact on the decision to establish a nuclear power plant in Poland. I stress: it was a real impact with access to court, a right to be a party to an administrative procedure, not to be a citizen, a patent in a public consultation that provides for a nuclear special act. People's opinions are important. especially when we consider the attitude of Poles towards nuclear energy. According to the research carried out by CBOS in 2021, only 39% of nuclear power plants in Poland are in favour of the construction of nuclear power plants. Subjects. There is much more in this 2019 regime than there are similar changes and legal loosenings concerning environmentally harmful investments. It is also possible to suspend proceedings regarding the adoption of an environmental decision to take it after a considerable period of time. And it doesn't matter that the location may have already created new housing estates, hospitals, resorts, tourist hotels, parks or reservations. It does not matter that residents and investors for decades will not be sure that there will be a nuclear power plant in their neighbourhood. It is important that the investor under whom this law is needed has full flexibility. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already lost five decades in this country. [[In Poland.]] 50 years arguing about whether we want a nuclear power plant or not. In the meantime, the nuclear power plant is going down to the lamus, and it is replaced by safer, cheaper technologies. This is the future, scattered, secure energy. And finally. Although this project is very short, only on one side, it already has a serious mistake in the first article. It shall contain a reference to Article. 509 laws - Water law that doesn't exist. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Should someone who can't write a project on one side flawlessly undertake to build a nuclear power plant in Poland? Thank you very much, Member. I want you to assess this for yourselves. Mr Marek Dyduch, on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left. Madame, time is up, really. This project, your marshal, is suitable for basketball. That's why I'm filing for rejection. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u296	Please, sir, the position of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Build a Polish nuclear power plant or not - that is the question. This project, among others. is going to answer this question and to point out whether we will come to this point or not because of other proposals. It is very important to settle strategic issues first and then to go into details later. Today Polish energy is based on coal, everyone knows that. Renewable sources are around 20% Polish energy and far from us e.g. to the Germans, but this is a way that should be very strongly taken into account in our thinking. If we have the thesis and demand that we move away from nuclear energy and give ourselves more than 20 years, then we need to find other sources of energy to ensure the energy security of the country. This is an issue of industry and this is a question of the population. Today we see what it means when the market rules energy, what it means for citizens when it comes to rising prices, living standards for it, investment, etc. That's all we can talk about. The Left points out very strongly that renewable energy sources are our primary route. We know that we can reach a certain level in the case of those technologies that are already there, and those technologies that will emerge, and we would like to see a few dozen percent of the energy sources coming from renewable energy. We prefer this direction very much, and we point very strongly to it. I would like to stress that today, if we had made this road easier, we would have acted much faster and more dynamically on this matter. We have a problem with transmission of networks and connections, e.g. to new photovoltaic installations where this process could be accelerated. We have legal uncertainty. First, we proposed cheap loans to Poles and the opportunity to build their own photovoltaic farms, and today we say that we are changing the law. This is not conducive to the development of this energy. Finally, the third is the climate in Poland, and it will limit us in this area. So the question comes back, how not coal and the incomplete possibility of renewable energy sources, in terms of securing Polish energy, is whether nuclear energy can be considered. This question, of course, involves many answers that people are raising today. Germany departs from nuclear energy after the various cataclysms that have emerged. Because with Fukushima, the Germans decided that they were going away from nuclear energy for their safety. But today, experts say they're making a mistake because they're about to start a coal plant. The question is whether this is a substitute for nuclear energy. These questions, which I am returning to the source, should we all answer ourselves - and politicians, and experts, is the second leg for renewable energy some other form of energy? What's the other leg supposed to look like? Whether nuclear energy, or e.g. carbon residue? That's an important answer, because here and here are very negative effects. That's something to pay attention to. Returning to the merit of this law, the Left sees all these doubts about the withdrawal of the law. Let me remind you that the scope of the environmental impact report has been defined. This was suspended in 2015. This is not yet a report on environmental impact, but a framework for this report, which needs to be carried out. We believe that the Polish side will keep EU rules on this matter and that there will not be, for example, nuclear power plant in Poland without the consent of the European Union. After all, we need to look at all of this in a broader way, not just in the context of the decision on this subject today. We also believe that NGOs will have normal access to the opinion of a potential venture on this issue. It's not like we're gonna shut everyone up here. Even if the law were to interfere with this case, if it were to say that you had no right to speak, people would still have spoken. I don't take it or feel like we're shutting people down... Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. ...opportunity to consult on this. That's why the Left doesn't... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u298	Mr President, we are very late, you are running out of time. Thank you. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u299	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives and referring to the draft of the bill presented - Water Law, which is a parliamentary project, I will say that it is a pity that the Polish People's Party, because it bears all the marks - when I look at this document - also the government project, only that given in the initiative of the Members. What is this project really about? It refers to the legal regime to be applied in the proceedings concerning the adoption of decisions on environmental conditions in determining the location of the investment, namely the construction of nuclear power plants, which is implemented under the Law of 29 June 2011 on the preparation and implementation of investments in nuclear power plants and associated investments. What do we read in the explanatory memorandum to this law? That it was the only procedure to decide on the environmental conditions for such an investment and it was initiated by the investor in 2015. On the basis of what bill? The 2011 Act. Ladies and gentlemen, have we forgotten that we have a strategic investment in nuclear energy, making legislative changes, which were mostly government projects, we have forgotten that it is important to ensure that transitional provisions respect this fact? Apparently so. The authority competent to issue this decision suspended the proceedings, expecting the investor, i.e. Polskie Elektrowni Elektrowni Elektrowni Łądowych, to present the relevant report. This report is now being finalised, in the meantime in 2016 some substantive scope of this report and spatial scope is to be introduced. The so-called. the scoping procedure which has defined these requirements and consequently the work is being finalised at the moment. It has turned out that the absence of transitional provisions in the three laws concerned does not facilitate this procedure, and therefore it is necessary to add transitional provisions to these three laws at the moment, including amendments to the Act - Water law, which, as the rapporteur said, affects amendments to 45 laws and is linked to the implementation of eight directives. However, in the meantime, it was also the Water Law of 2017 that was amended: the Act of 19 July 2019 amending the Act on the making available of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and certain other laws, as well as the Act of 13 February 2020 amending the Act - Construction Law, which concerns the electronicisation of proceedings. Therefore, we have the 2011 Investment Implementation Act - on this basis the proceeding has started. In 2016, we have a scoping procedure on the content of the report, there are four further three changes, major changes: in 2017, 2019 and 2020 in the said laws and we do not take into account that the ongoing proceedings need to be taken into account. It is only in 2021 that the government discovers that the procedure cannot be completed efficiently without changing the provisions of the three laws mentioned here, because they do not contain transitional provisions for the most important strategic investment, which is the nuclear power plant. I have no doubt that this is a strategic investment and we are making changes, introducing transitional provisions after 4 years, and it is a novel on the initiative of the Members. What does the Legislative Bureau say? It says that it is a bad practice when we introduce provisions with retroactive effect, and it is still within the scope of transitional provisions, and the clock is withdrawn here by 4 years in the case of at least one of the laws, and we also do not have Polish energy policy, but we only have it established by 2040. It would be good for us to work on the basis of the current energy strategy of Poland. So we have, High Sejm, not only the problem with the Polish Ład, but we also have a problem with the legislative order, because this example shows that we do not use all the possibilities that we have in the state institutions. After all, there is a Legislative Council and there are procedures for dealing with government projects, and it seems to me that this is the right stage for us to bear in mind, especially if this concerns strategic investments. Because if there were more than one of these proceedings initiated under the 2011 Act, we could say, "Well, it's gone through there somewhere." [[♪ The bell ♪]] But there's one strategic investment, and right now we have to fix it after a few years. It doesn't add up to this project that I'm going to say there, the value of a project that you'd like to vote on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u300	Thank you, sir. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, on behalf of the Confederate circle. Politely, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, we are really talking about nuclear energy here, but a few fundamental issues need to be discussed. First of all, the number of laws. Laws on land management should be issued no more than once every 25 years, and I hear here that 19 such laws have been issued since 2015. How can you live in a world where things change all the time. But the answer to the 19 laws being passed is the 20th law. It doesn't make life any easier, but I understand that it's a necessity because you have to build a power plant. Now for the second, extremely important thing. In this respect, Mrs PiS explains that it is not true that the views of environmental organisations are not taken into account. I do not understand the basis on which the opinions of environmental organisations are taken into account. Five people are gathered, they're called an organic organization, and they think they have the right to stop any decision. Well, unless you give them a bribe for the right to build a freeway. Strangely enough, all the demands of environmental organisations, or almost all of them, are to block the possibility of using all energy sources except for energy from Gazprom. These organisations always block all investments outside Russian and always promote gas. [[What kind of nonsense are you talking about?]] Even nuclear energy, the absolute cleanest ecological energy, is also bad. I've seen pictures from Brazil, where there's a nuclear reactor, it's over the ocean, kids are playing there, they're almost walking around the dome of the reactor, and nobody seems to mind. I believe that these organizations are criminal organisations set up for extortion, bribery and political influence in Poland. I do not understand the basis on which the opinions of environmental organisations are taken into account. Their members are often also maniacs who cling to trees, etc. We take into account the opinion of mentally ill people. The last case is people's opinion. The Germans are shutting down nuclear power plants. Of course, they cannot be replaced by photovoltaic cells or wind power stations, because the wind does not always blow, the sun does not always shine. These are extremely expensive and inefficient energy sources. Germany, on the other hand, resigns. There are crazy people out there, same environmentalists. The Greens are probably even in the government coalition right now, so they're doing their crazy ideas. We must, ladies and gentlemen, go ahead and build nuclear power plants. Poland should already have 10 nuclear power plants. Thank you for your attention. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u302	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u303	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I am pleased to present the position of the Polska 2050 wheel in relation to the Act amending the Act - Water Law and some other laws, print no. 1843. Mrs. Marshal! At first, I will file a motion for you to reject this law in its entirety. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, it can be said that if the management of a nuclear power plant in the future in Poland would look as chaotic as the introduction of the rules that we are adopting today and the previous regulations, it would probably be better for this power plant to never be established in Poland. It's really fear. I'll make a few points. One investor, one company, and the bill we're writing. There are several, several, dozens of laws that Mrs Paluch referred to as rapporteur for the committee. The rules work backwards. You're not even hiding that the rules are working backwards. After 4 years, you add transitional provisions to the bill. It is simply a matter of absolutely no precedent in our Seym even after six years of such bad government. The parliamentary procedure at this point is clearly abused - it is evidently a law written in the Ministry, it was not written by its Members - of course, it is known why. The point is to avoid certain procedures that are necessary. The mode of working on this bill, when we get it for a dozen or several dozen hours before the procession... Finally, I have to say that we are discussing Water Law here, and we all know that it is a nuclear power plant. The level of chaos that can create a PiS is incomparable with nothing. If you were ever to build a nuclear power plant, if your agendas were to manage this nuclear power plant... Lord God, keep us from this. In fact, the most important questions we should ask ourselves today are questions about a nuclear power plant. What's the technology gonna be? Who are we going to buy this technology from? The political context with regard to energy sources is absolutely the most important issue today. Where's the power plant supposed to be built? When is it to rise? When will the energy policy documents be amended? For five years, you've ruled without energy policy papers. When you created some documents, they turned out to be out of date. It's one big horror movie, isn't it? From the committee meeting that the rapporteur told us about, the most important thing I will remember is the Minister who was banging his fist on the table to say that this bill must be. It is not managed, Minister, in this way energy in Poland. It's not about punching the table. Hitting the table with your fists won't do any good. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have to watch the rules, prepare them at the right time, not hit the table with your fist. It really doesn't change anything. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But they are not the ones who are going to build this power plant, they are going to build the Koreans.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u304	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Stanisław Żuk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary proposal to amend the Act - Water Law and some laws introduces regulations that complement, among others. Water law, legislation on amending the Act - Construction Law and the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments. Generally speaking, it is the choice of provisions that we will apply in the case of environmental decisions prior to the decision to establish the location of investments taking into account the construction of nuclear installations. Such an investment is included in projects that may have a significant impact on the environment. In 2015... Excuse me, phone call. [[Voice from the room: Answer it.]] I'm not gonna answer that. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Something like that.]] Such an investment is one of projects that can have a significant impact on the environment. Since 2015, with varying degrees of intensity, proceedings have been underway in the case of... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm gonna finish this, and I'm gonna answer later. [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: What environmental impact?]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] Since 2015, with varying degrees of intensity, the construction of the Polish power plant has been underway, and in the area of environmental impact assessment these issues are practically suspended. Also in the period from 2015 the provisions on environmental considerations have been amended several times, and it is therefore appropriate to introduce provisions that update the legal status which is taken into account when issuing environmental conditions for such investment. Since the amendments proposed by the applicants should improve the adoption of environmental decisions and change the participation of specialised bodies in this process, they should be considered appropriate. On 15 December a first reading was held at the Joint Committee meeting. energy, climate and assets and environmental protection. Both committees are bringing in a proposal for a law to be adopted. I'm a member of both of these parliamentary committees. As the Circle of Poselskie Kukiz.15 - Direct Democracy we are in favour of adopting a procedated draft resolution. Since I have 30 seconds left, ladies and gentlemen, I will address Members on the left side of the speaker. I do not hide the fact that I am terrified to hear you talk about ecology, only about renewable energy. I have been professionally involved in energy engineering for 45 years, and believe me, there is no system in a country that is capable enough to work only on the basis of renewable energy. Therefore, if not coal (the bell), there must be nuclear energy and there is no way out. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u306	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's one comforting thing about this legal bubble, because that's clearly what this project needs to be called, because it's not designed to build any nuclear power plant, God forbid. This is a replay of entertainment, a replay of Turova. It is becoming a basically bad law that violates not only European standards, but also so as to quickly issue paper to investors and possibly allow some colleagues to earn money on projects and programmes, to remember a little in international negotiations, what technology we will choose, and then say - and here is the question whether it is true that the German Ministry of Economy has asked for a repeat of cross-border consultation - that (the bell) the money spent without production is the fault of the European Union and that it demands compliance with the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u308	Thank you very much, thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question as to how, in the case of such a key investment, you are not able to introduce a legal order that would raise no doubts. As was heard in this Chamber, there were a number of doubts about this law, but they also pointed out, as the rapporteur said, in several points of this law, legislators. The answer to this is that we do it by way of an exception. Why in the case of a key investment, as you call it, which is to be so, are you not able to maintain the legal order? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: For the first time we are building a nuclear power plant.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u310	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u311	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This bill shows how the Government of Law and Justice approach the energy security strategy in the pill. Chaos, arrogance, separation from reality - these are the terms that can be attributed to this strategy or this lack of strategy. At a time when it was necessary to think very intensively and build and conduct this strategy, the PiS government dealt with the decommissioning of wind energy, halting the development of RES, importing coal from Russia, building power plants in Ostrołęka, then destroying this power plant in Ostrołęka, changing regulations from wall to wall. I have a question, when the government realized that all the deadlines laid down by the rules that today are to be made back up (the bell) have passed, because as for the fact that this is a project that comes from the bosom of the government, I think we are all agreed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u312	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law aims to improve the adoption of an environmental decision for the construction of a nuclear power plant. It's a pity it's such a bullshit and an underdeveloped bill. Even the Sejm legislators paid attention to this. We have learned that the first power plant is to be built in Choczewo commune in Pomeranian Voivodeship. Therefore, I would like to ask what compensation is planned by the government for the inhabitants of Pomorskie Voivodeship, Wejherowski County and Choczewo Municipality. I would like to point out that this project has almost completely blocked the participation of residents in the process of issuing environmental decisions, limited to residents within a radius of 100 m. I would also like to ask if there are any conversations going on, among others. with Marshal of Pomorskie Voivodship on the necessary investments, among others [[♪ The bell ♪]] road or rail, before the start of the investment and when the government plans to start this construction.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u314	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed act aims to improve the process of issuing environmental approvals for the construction of a nuclear power plant. However, in a strange way, the discussion of this undertaking, the law itself or the announcement of a possible location of a potential power plant coincides with galloping energy prices. The truth is, you haven't created any broad strategy of action that you could show the public in general about the construction of this power plant. You're only talking about the year 2033. After all, the date itself is no longer real, it is not to be fulfilled. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Why?]] Didn't the experience of other countries really teach you, teach you? You can't use this. You can't make such an investment in 11 years, or at least the experience of others shows... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Koreans build in 5.]] ...that it's impossible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why don't you have a comprehensive plan for this investment that you could show the public? Thank you very much, Member. You guys are really unprepared. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u316	Thank you. Please, Mrs Anita Sowińska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u317	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Poland has the potential to install 45 GW of power from windmills at sea by 2050. This is a huge amount of safe, green and cheap energy - energy that can be stored in the form of synthetic gas, which can be used as a carbon-free source in gas plants. For comparison, the total capacity installed throughout the country is 53 GW. Do not know why, the government does not want to exploit the potential of wind energy at sea and assumes in its energy strategy the installation of up to 11 GW of power, which is four times less than, it seems, potential. So I ask: What is the point of building a large, expensive nuclear power plant just by the sea, a place where we have wind potential that we can't even use? And second question. In August (The Bell) Minister Przemysław Czarnek became Vice-Chairman of the Technology Development Board of small HTGR reactors, it is about high-temperature nuclear reactors... Finish it, Member. ...gas-cooled. What are the effects of this team? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u318	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I was inspired to ask Mr Andrzej Grzyb, who says that there is a report on the environmental impact in the context of building a potential nuclear power plant. So I have a question: Are there really work on the environmental impact report? If so, on the basis of what extent? Because the scope of the 2015 report was suspended. The question is: Is this report done and based on what extent? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u320	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u321	High Izbo! The climate crisis is the biggest threat of our time. If we really want to prevent a disaster, we need to use every means we can. This means that we need nuclear power, and that means we need big investments in wind energy at sea. These are not contradictory elements of the energy system. We need both. My question to the rulers invariably for six years is: Why are we so late, why are we still in this place for six years where we are talking about a power plant that will be built and this power plant is still not being built? We in the Together have no doubt that Poland needs nuclear power today, that it is a great pity that Poland no longer has nuclear power today, and that is why Together is in favour of further work on this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u322	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Necessary, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u323	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! High and rising energy prices, energy dependence on Russia, the climate crisis, the biggest costs of which are absolutely crucial issues for Poland, for the inhabitants of Poland, for their future. On each of these issues, in each of them we would be in a much, much better situation if we had a nuclear power plant. We would have been in a much better position if we hadn't interrupted the construction of the Żarnowiec power plant, we would have been in a much better position if the Civic Platform project had ended with more than the appointment of the president and the management board. But unfortunately, we can't turn back the time. We're in the situation we're in, and there's really nothing left to look forward to, you have to start building. Therefore, as a party We are in favour of further work on this law and therefore as a party We are in favour of the construction of a nuclear power plant in Poland as soon as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u324	Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u325	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The decision to build a nuclear power plant in Poland comes from time to time as a result of important political events. And this is President Duda's meeting with former President Trump of the United States, and this is where the central politician in Konin will appear, and he says that there will be a power plant being built, and in turn other politicians say that there will be another place. There's no decision, though. Secondly, the lack of stability in the functioning of the rules, as Mr Marek Dyduch said. Well-growing renewable energy sources, which are of course photovoltaic farms, but these photovoltaic cells... As a result of citizens' decisions, the rules are also changing. I wanted to ask, until when (the bell) will be paid to those citizens who have invested, in the amount of 3,000. zł, and what rules will apply after this limit has been exhausted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u326	Thank you very much. You're welcome... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: So the links don't pay off, how do they pay off?]] [[But you promised.]] I ask you to remain calm, sir. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u327	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! This project raises huge doubts. First of all, for legal reasons. Namely, we have here once again an example of circumvention of laws and principles by laying down such a fundamental change in the situation in Poland, if it is adopted, a project without public consultation, and we know that this issue is extremely controversial socially and avoiding public consultation through the submission of parliamentary projects is a clear violation of democratic principles constitutionally guaranteed. So stop with this type of legislation in Poland. Secondly, we are also dealing with a very outdated investment here. It's like we're investing now in landline phones or faxes instead of modern technologies. So I'm asking if you really -- once you've destroyed wind energy, recently photovoltaics, while you're at coal -- now you're going to want to invest in outdated technologies. I don't think that's the way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u328	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u329	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have further evidence that the laws prepared by the PiS are unreliable and unverified by persons who are prepared for such tasks. Not later than 1 March 2021, the Government Monitor published the contents of the Water Law Act and a few months later, the entire Parliament must improve legislative buffs pushed through its knees by the Sejm and by committees. Do you really need as many as 50 Members of the United Right to write an amendment saying that the provisions of the Act are applicable in matters pending the entry into force of the provisions announced on 1 March 2021, and did it take 10 months to reflect on this? Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS! If you announce amendments in the Polish Lada with equal commitment and at a similar rate, 40% Polish society will be pushed into a state of extreme poverty (the bell) and the number of homeless people will increase by several million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u330	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are talking about a parliamentary bill amending the Act - Water Law and some laws. Perhaps he is a member of the House because there is no public consultation. In the case of the government, they would have to do so. The question to the rapporteurs, I think, and those who have signed this bill: Is it true that this bill was written specifically for one investment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u332	Thank you, sir. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law, which assumes the introduction of Polish nuclear energy, has aroused social emotions for many years, raises doubts. If this project were supported by a reliable analysis of the potential of renewable energy sources in Poland based on today's data, on today's knowledge, and if such a reliable analysis, which is lacking here, indicated that, however, we need to reach for nuclear energy, that these renewable energy sources are not enough, it would be an argument for the public and for us. However, there is no such analysis, moreover, the development of energy from renewable sources is halting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] PiS finished the wind energy issue three years ago and does not invest in this energy on land, especially at sea. Now he has basically finished the issue of photovoltaic energy, and it is proposed to us in connection with huge, monstrous increases in prices for energy processing on nuclear energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u334	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u335	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In Poland, through the negligence of the Government of Law and Justice - but there is more to blame, it is not only your fault - we have a critical situation regarding the supply of electricity to companies, institutions, houses. The miners who extract coal from traditional power plants are waiting for a wage because they work on Saturdays on Sundays. You're already behind them in six months. It is also worth mentioning today. Today, by changing the Water Law, you want the Sejm's approval to build a nuclear power plant. Poles from my generation remember Chernobyl and fear the atom. This fear is justified because the State does not resolve the doubts that arise. Minister Sasin couldn't handle the Ostrołęka case, the block was built, now he's stripped. There's just more of this bullshit. Today we need good information, a fair debate on this matter. I have a question, please answer in writing. It's said that you'll be storing these radioactive waste in the salt mine. I would like to know whether in the salt mine in Kłodawa or in Bochnia or Wieliczka or in Polkowice. Where will this radioactive waste generated at the nuclear power plant be stored? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u336	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u337	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! There is no doubt about the need to build a nuclear power plant in Poland as soon as possible. If we want to develop renewable sources, we need to have stable ones. At what time can the first nuclear block be put into service in Poland if the long period of construction of nuclear units is taken into account? How does the Minister expect? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u338	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u339	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you when you're lying. On 24 June 2020, following the meeting of President Duda with President Trump, you informed us enthusiastically that the great project of supplying nuclear energy to our economy is one step away from closing the system, that we will be able to build up in a moment that the negotiations on this matter have been conducted by Minister Naimski for a long time, and in the explanatory memorandum to the bill on which we are proceeding today, you write that the only procedure for this undertaking was initiated at the request of the investor submitted in 2015 and it is not really clear what is happening with this proceeding. So when do you lie? When you say what you say today, or when you say what you said on June 24, 2020? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[You just don't know and understand the rules of administration.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u340	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u341	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The decision to build the first nuclear power plant in Poland was made even 50 years ago, in 1972, and the construction itself started a decade later. The failure to build a nuclear power plant in Żarnowiec after systemic changes from today's perspective should be assessed as an error, especially since the reactor, which was to work in Żarnowiec, is still operational in Finland. As a Member of Pomerania, a Member from the district where the nuclear power plant is to be located, I am particularly interested in issues relating to compensation for residents of both the area where the power plant will be located and the protection zone. And I would like to get a written answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u342	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Krutul, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have three questions. What technology proposal do experts from the Ministry possibly agree to in connection with the construction of a nuclear power plant in the municipality of Choczewo? Why is this project a parliamentary project, not a government project, when the issue of national energy is so important? And another question about the power plant: What government has plans to modernise outdated transmission lines in our country? It is a time frame for the renovation and modernisation of these lines. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u344	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Obaz, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u345	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are once again investigating the parliamentary project, and we all know that it is a government project, only that as such it would have to be consulted. I also wonder whether, after the introduction of this law, public consultations will be wide enough and advanced enough to allow all those who wish to speak on the subject, to say in favour or against, to take part in such consultations. Second thing. This project was created very quickly, actually on order. And in Water Law we have provisions contrary to the provisions of the Construction Law, as in this case concerning domestic waste water treatment plants. Somehow, the country... Perhaps you would simply as a parliamentary project take up and prepare such a project so quickly as to help all those inhabitants from whom Polish waters today require water permits for the construction of domestic sewage treatment plants. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u346	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Law on Water Law was designed to help the rulers to cut down the rules for the construction of a nuclear power plant, and in particular to disable the social side, to deprive the inhabitants of the vote so that they are not party. Why? That's how much you care about the residents. But it does happen without that right, ladies and gentlemen. An example is Lubelszczyzna and Janów Lubelski, where the rulers do not care at all about residents and prepare investments without the participation of residents. This bill, prepared sloppyly, bypassing the social side, is simply outrageous, but extremely important. The project was prepared by Members, i.e. without public consultation, for investment. Why? To disable public consultations and residents. This is how citizens are treated in this country. We'll be against it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u348	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u349	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for the Minister because this project we're talking about is undoubtedly out of the ministry. The investor we are talking about and for which this present law is being sewn is working on an environmental programme and location at least since 2010. According to my information from 2009 to 2018, she invested here whether she had already spent more than PLN 447 million, or PLN 0.5 billion for this purpose. In the meantime, you have taken further steps to take over this company from PGE. What is the total amount of expenditure so far? Let me remind you that we still don't have a final location decision, we still don't have an environmental report. He was supposed to be at the end of December last year (the bell), we still have nothing. What's the cost?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u350	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u351	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We could understand this project if it were a government project, consulted. The amendment of Water Law is, after all, limited to the construction of a nuclear power plant. But if the government doesn't want to answer, perhaps the Members of the applicant will give us information. First of all, where are you going to locate the nuclear power plant? There's an article in Oneta today. Choczew commune, maybe in Goose, maybe in another location. Secondly, what technology will be used in this case in relation to the nuclear power plant in Poland? Will it be co-operation with Americans, French, Koreans, maybe Japanese? We don't have any information on that. What have you been doing for the last six years, when there has actually been no concrete action on this matter? Preparing this right in such a way, by evading the government party, is simply frivolous and I expect the applicants to answer these questions (the bell). Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u352	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Mr Jacek Czerniak, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u353	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If electricity is not from coal, if electricity is not from the wind, because there is a law of 10H, if electricity is not from the sun, then I understand that electricity from the atom. In that case, specific questions to the Minister. When will the first reactor be built and launched in Poland? If, in the strategy, Poland's energy policy states that the first reactor is to be launched in 2033, is this date real if the Parliament will eventually adopt decisions on administrative and environmental provisions? I remind you - my friend from the club mentioned this - that we have already built a nuclear power plant in Żarnowiec. It was the years 1982 and 1989. And it didn't work out, although the power was supposed to be less, about 1600 MW. Today Poland's strategy says that the nuclear power plant will have 9 GW. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So it's a fundamental difference. And I have one more question. Dear Minister, what will be the cost of the disposal of radioactive waste, what this cost will be? Is he in Europe today? Because there is no nuclear power plant in Poland. I ask for this reply in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u354	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Minister Piotr Naimski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u355	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The number of questions that you have asked, in fact, is affecting the fundamental problem, i.e. whether nuclear energy is to be in Poland. This nuclear energy is essential in the situation of Poland. If we assume that it is necessary - such a discussion may be held on another occasion - it is simply necessary to facilitate the rapid implementation of this project, the project of building the entire nuclear power sector in Poland. There is no way to ensure energy security, security of energy supply for all customers in Poland, by renewable energy sources themselves. This means that nuclear power plants must be present in this energy transition, which we assume we will carry out in the long term, certainly by 2050. The law that we are investigating today is a law that actually facilitates the procedure for making environmental decisions related to the construction of a power plant. These environmental procedures, which are necessary for the environmental assessment of investments such as nuclear power plants, are particularly restrictive. The scope of the environmental report, which was defined in 2016 and has not been suspended - by the way, is the answer to any question that has been raised here - has been recognised and this procedure has been carried out in accordance with this scope. The environmental report prepared by the Polish Nuclear Power Plant is in principle ready to be submitted to the General Directorate for Environmental Protection. Today's law, in fact, aims to create a situation in which the decision taken by our environmental administration will be based on the rules that are in force today and not on those that were in force in 2015. It's important because we're talking about, among other things. to ensure that the rules to be applied have full approval at the level of the European Union's regulation. This letter from the European Commission is therefore important for the whole procedure, which is acceptable to our state of regulation. I can say that this amendment, which we are looking at today, was in a sense waiting for the completion of the procedure between Poland and the European Commission on these environmental measures. At a time when it was recognised that our regulations were in line with European regulations, we began to update the state of affairs. If we hadn't done it - I would have liked it to sound - it would have meant that from a formal point of view environmental procedure, as well as the definition of the scope... In short, the whole process would have to start over in a formal sense. That would mean a real waste of time, a very big one. That is why it is a parliamentary presentation which is supported - yes, it is supported by the government. To answer some of the questions that have been raised here, so grouply... The situation regarding the preparation of investments, the preparation of the construction of power plants is this year: this year - not next year only in this autumn - the government will have reason to believe that, after a decision is taken, a key decision on the choice of technology, which you are asking about, which will be applied in the Polish nuclear programme. At the same time, in the report, what was given, in this report, which has not yet been submitted, but the company has prepared, the preferred location is precisely the location in the Pomeranian Voivodeship, in the municipality of Choczewo. It seems from all possible indications that this is the optimal location. Optimum for access to water, cooling, in one word and the environment, and also because of the fact that... I can answer by the way, it's not like the government stopped the construction of wind power plants at sea. On the contrary, the Sejm passed a law on support for these investments in the decade of the 20s. Nevertheless, the amount of power plants, the amount of energy sources in Poland in the northern part should be balanced, because most of the sources we have in central and southern Poland at the moment. This is one of the reasons why a nuclear power plant is planned on the coast, and regardless of the wind power plants, it will certainly be needed there, as well as needed throughout the country. If I may ask the honourable House for support for this amendment, I will use this to say that this support is one of the few steps that are now, so to speak, to be carried out in the short term. He's not big, but he's very important. We will be in the High House proceeding on at least one more law, which will be an amendment of the existing law of 2011, which is being prepared in the government, a law directly relating to this particular investment. You ask Members whether this is an amendment to one investment. Yeah, she's dealing with one investment. It's a big enough investment that she requires, requires special treatment. And that's what I'm asking, if I can ask the High House from here, for special treatment. This special treatment is also a condition, it is an argument that this unusual mode - he is not extraordinary, but is not ordinary - whose subject you raise and which was raised by the Legislative Office of the Sejm, which pointed out to the initiators of this law that it is a legal disability to amend the transitional provisions backwards. Yes, it is, and it is difficult to deny, but the circumstances seem to be translating this unusual mode. Dear Members, I ask you to support this project, it will enable us to go faster and better through the energy transition, which really poses many problems for us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u356	Thank you. I ask now the representative of the applicants of Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u357	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As a representative of the applicants, I would like to stress that as Members, we have tabled a procedated bill, wishing to accelerate the physical preparation of the construction of a nuclear block in Poland. This is necessary in connection with Poland's signing of a new climate package, which includes Poland's departure from heating and coal energy until 2049. So we're 28 years old for a powerful energy-heat transformation. In order to be energy safe, we should build at least 6 to 8 nuclear blocks, giving us reliable and carbon-free electricity. Indeed, I agree that we have been preparing for this for too long, but financial considerations have often prevailed here too. But now that we have signed the climate package, as far as our place in the European Commission is concerned, this is a necessary necessity. And, in fact, if we consider technological processes, we can do this within 28 years. There were also doubts about the waste. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we have a landfill in Różana in Poland in our district not far from Warsaw. It's a post-baby landfill. There they put all their waste, which they then, after 1992, partially exported. There, until now, because it will be disposed of, Poland has been depositing radioactive waste from health care. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, as Poland, we produce as much radioactive waste from health care as from one nuclear block per year. I have a question. Whether, therefore, we have to eliminate the CT, MRI, X-ray, ultrasound, etc.? Turns out we live with that. At a time when I was a minister, the procedure for the disposal of this landfill was initiated in connection with its filling. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of this, the municipality receives considerable money, far above its budget, was brought to me as the minister of the girl 85-year-old, 90-year-old, etc. And they said, "Leave us this landfill, we want it to continue with us." Because now they would only get PLN 2.5 million a year because the old blocked landfill will be closed. So from the local community's point of view, that's what it looks like. No one was harmed there. This technology, like any other technology, requires considerable and good preparation, good implementation. These technologies are functioning. In fact, in all modern countries around the world and in various fields. So just as we cannot give up energy, nuclear technology in health care, so is the time when we need to use nuclear technologies more widely in our energy, in our heat and so on. In this area, a major energy transformation is being prepared around the world and we have a chance to find ourselves in the main Peleton. That is why I believe that as parliamentarians, we should do everything we can to help the government to achieve these tasks. Without stable energy sources, energy transformation cannot be carried out in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u358	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u359	Thank you very much. High Izbo! There were a lot of speeches and parliamentary questions. Both Minister and Mr Tchórzewski referred to substantive issues concerning the construction of a nuclear power plant. I just want to stress in one sentence that there is no way to balance the energy system without a large, stable energy source. We won't have a stable energy system, either from photovoltaics or windmills at sea or on land. Without such large sources - let me remind you that nuclear energy, nuclear energy is emission-free - we will not shut down the energy system. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the issue of the procedure in more detail, because we have heard a lot of invectives here, that as an applicant we have presented here a legal bubble that there is chaos, arrogance and separation from reality, wind energy decommissioning. As for wind energy decommissioning, I would remind you that we have never referred to as the majority governing offshore energy. We try to support her and we want to develop her. On the other hand, where on land wind energy caused great social problems, we intervened. I now want to focus on legislative issues, that there is a legal bubbly and a scandal of amending the transitional provisions. This was particularly the case with the Civic Coalition. Madam President, I would like to say that you are the rapporteur of the committee. I would therefore like to remind you, Members of the Civic Coalition, that during the last term of office in which they ruled, in the 7th term of office, we have examined the parliamentary draft from print no.388, which was the law on amending the same law that we are now amending, i.e. the evaluation law. We extended the time to make a decision after the environmental decision from 6 to 10 years. So long-term road construction procedures, much simpler investments than the construction of a nuclear power plant. We extended it from 6 to 10 years, because then investors were unable to meet the requirements of the procedure. But, ladies and gentlemen, the biggest problem and the biggest controversy was the writing of the article. 155 of this draft amending the transitional provision which concerned decisions under the Act... Madame, I am so sorry. Mrs... ... Environmental law 2001 This is... Yes, Marshal? I'd like you to talk about the project we're investigating in this room. I would like to remind you that you are the rapporteur of the committee, not the rapporteur of the Law and Justice Club. Marshal, I would like to point out that you did not listen to my speech as rapporteur, during which I was very much addressing this issue, which was criticised by Members on the revision of the transitional provisions. That's what I'm talking about. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in the 7th term of office of project No. 3388, you have amended the transitional provisions of the Environmental Law, a law on the basis of which environmental decisions were issued before the adoption of the Act of 3 October 2008. It is as if we reached the old Water Law, which was before 2017. So he doesn't remember how calf he was. Before you start criticizing and mocking, first check your own activity. This procedure, which I have mentioned here, which I have explained in detail, to a very narrow extent, I would like to remind you once again, only on the matter set out in the article. 72. 1 point 18a of the Evaluation Act, which refers to the speciality concerning the construction of a nuclear power plant... Only in this respect will this provision work. Therefore, despite these invectives, I ask you to reconsider your position and support this bill, because this will improve our environmental behaviour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u360	The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm do not refer this bill back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the urgent government draft law on specific arrangements for the protection of gas fuel customers in view of the situation on the gas market, print No 1907. Therefore, the Marshal of the Sejm, pursuant to Article. 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on the added point, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs submitted a report on the draft law amending the Law on Strategic Reserves and some other laws, print No 1910. Therefore, the Marshal of the Sejm, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on the item added, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the wheels. If I do not hear any objection, I will find that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Social Employment Act and amending the Law on Education in Sobriety and Against Alcoholism (Prints No. 1834 and 1901). I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u361	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the Act on Social Employment and amending the Act on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism from Print No. 1834. Your Marshal of the Sejm, based on Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 sent the above proposal to work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy carried out its first reading and examined this draft law on 11 January this year. High Izbo! The Social Employment Act of 13 June 2003 counters the marginalisation of social groups and the consequences of social exclusion through labour and social reintegration implemented by social integration centres and social inclusion clubs. In view of changing socio-economic conditions, in particular the labour market situation, it has become necessary to amend the provisions of the Social Employment Act. These changes, included in the draft law, will improve the situation of participants in social inclusion centres and clubs, facilitate the functioning of these institutions and improve the quality of functioning of social employment entities. Thus, the draft law contains the following proposals. Proposals that improve the situation of participants in clubs and social inclusion centres are: increasing the level of integration benefit to 120% unemployment benefit for the entire duration of the activities of the Social Inclusion Centre, including the probationary period; more flexible participation in the Centre up to 30 hours per week; longer participation in the activities of the Integration Centre by 6 months, up to a total of 24 months; additional free days, in total 12, including the maintenance of the integration benefit; up to 100% of the maximum incentive premium paid by the Social Inclusion Centre's own resources integration benefits. There are also proposals for changes that facilitate the functioning of social inclusion centres and clubs. These proposals include: abandoning the conditions of poverty when running social assistance centres to participate in classes; allowing social cooperatives to set up centres and clubs for both legal persons and individuals; enabling social and professional reintegration services to be carried out within a functioning social services centre in a different location from the centre; enabling the Marshal to receive grants for the equipment of the centre in the event of its expansion or the creation of workshops in another municipality - now such a grant is only for the equipment - and extending the catalogue of sources of funding for the activities of social inclusion clubs to grants from the municipalities' own income and grants for equipment from the marshal. Another proposal is the granting of supervisory powers to the voivodeship as regards the activities of social inclusion centres, including the granting of appropriate supervisory instruments, such as a call for appropriate explanations and a call for the cessation or removal of irregularities found. The draft law amending the Social Employment Act and some other laws introduces the possibility for the Minister responsible for social security to create programmes for the development of social inclusion centres and clubs. Eight amendments were tabled at the Social Policy Committee meeting on 11 January. All amendments have been accepted. I will mainly discuss the substantive amendments, amendments that went beyond the scope of this law, as the Legislative Bureau pointed out. Nevertheless, the members of the committee did not object to these amendments, because they are very important from the point of view of the current situation in which our society, related to COVID, is located. There is also one amendment that applies to persons who receive supplementary benefits for persons unable to live on their own. Thus, in this Supplementary Provision Act, the amendment concerns the rule of increasing the amount of the monthly allowance threshold. We have introduced a provision that this threshold, this amount of entitlement to benefits, is valued annually on the same principles, as well as the valorization of pensions on 1 March each year. So we know that valorization is annual and that this rate of pension and pension valorization will also be raised. The two amendments I was talking about in connection with the Law on specific arrangements for preventing, combating and combating COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them concern that those programmes which are implemented by the Regional Labour Offices, concerning the support of instruments, the support of employers in the labour market in connection with COVID, may also be applied after 2021, i.e. since 2022 these programmes have been extended from the Guaranteed Workers' Benefits Fund and the Labour Fund. These measures remain in the offices, these instruments will continue to be used. There is also a change, already more technical, in the Act on the Polish Tourist Bone. We know that it has been extended by six months for the use of these vouchers. Not all of them benefited, although I say it is a small group of people, children who have not yet used the gift. We want this to be a full use. We therefore postpone the deadline for the transmission of data collected in the electronic system until 31 December 2022. The other amendments were legislative in nature. I would like to thank all the members of the committee, the secretariat, the Minister very much. We didn't have any votes on this committee. All amendments and the submission of ministerial proposals in the draft law as well as all amendments were accepted without objection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u362	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Władysław Kurowski, Mr Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u363	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to present my position on this project. The reason for the necessary amendment of this law is the changing situation on the labour market, remaining without employment of the furthest from the labour market, often facing coupled life problems. As we learn from the justification for this law, it is the intention of the legislator to motivate people who are socially excluded from the concept of labour and social reintegration in order to develop adequate living attitudes, to perform social roles both in the workplace and in the place of residence, and to rebuild their ability to provide work on the labour market on their own. The social employment sector has been developing in Poland for 20 years now. Centres and clubs operate at the interface of two key areas of social policy, i.e. social assistance and labour market policy. It should be borne in mind that supporting social and professional reintegration in this form of social employment is not a compulsory task for local self-government units. The law regulates the possibility of reaching this form of education, shaping the local social situation, leaving the decision in this regard on the part of the actors who create them, i.e. on the part of local governments and NGOs. Together with the Social Employment Council, the solutions contained in the project facilitate inter alia. the functioning of social employment actors, the organisation of the reintegration process and the extension of certain powers of participants in centres. At the same time, the draft law provides solutions to improve the system of monitoring the activities of social employment actors, thus making the sector even more comprehensive. Changes in the social employment sector are due to different factors, but the situation on the labour market plays a key role. Although the rate of registered unemployment has steadily decreased over the last period, interestingly, the number of social employment actors and those benefiting from this support has increased in the same period. In this respect, the participation of people with disabilities and addicts to alcohol or drugs has increased systematically. Research and information provided by members of the Social Council confirm that other social problems are also common among the long-term unemployed. Changes in this area require measures to facilitate reintegration addressed both to participants and to lead actors. Further development of the social employment monitoring system is needed. The proposed changes have been developed, which should be highlighted, with the Social Employment Council. Now some of the most important issues that have been placed in this amendment. Firstly, it is a waiver of the obligation to meet the conditions of poverty for access to the instruments provided for in the project. This change is due to the fact that social exclusion is a fundamental issue determining whether to benefit from the support provided for in the Act. Poverty can be both the cause and the result of social exclusion and should therefore not have a decisive impact on access to the support law, which aims at social and professional inclusion. Secondly, and I think that this is a very important condition that is being examined, it is to allow the participation in clubs of persons who have a fixed right to an invalidity pension. So far they have not been able to participate, but after this amendment they will be able to do so. Thirdly, a very important change is an indication of the possibility of implementing reintegration services outside the location of the centres. The current regulation does not indicate where the services are to be provided to the participants of the centres. This situation has led to interpretation doubts and divergences in the practice of the operation of these entities. In some cases, it has been indicated that classes with participants can only take place at the place where the centres operate. This also led to a reduction in the development capacity of the centres and hindered access to the services of these entities for residents of remote areas from that indicated in the application for the status of the centre of operation. Such an interpretation also contributed to the creation of new centres in situations where it would be sufficient to extend the offer of existing entities, e.g. the possibility of organising integration activities outside the centre's place of operation, e.g. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in another town. The possibility of such organisation of the activities of the centres has been taken into account in the proposed amendments to the rules. Conducting part of the activities outside the centres is an opportunity to reach new groups and people at risk of social exclusion, which is particularly important for small towns. At the end of this speech, I would like to say that, in view of what I have put forward, as well as the discussion at the committee's meeting - substantive and, in principle, without opposition - as a representative of the Law and Justice Club, I recommend that the High House adopt this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u364	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u365	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Social Employment Act and amending the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism, print No. 1834. The Social Employment Act adopted in 2003 was intended to help those excluded from employment. In line with the rationale of the draft law, the aim was to make people affected or at risk of social exclusion independent by taking up vocational and social education in order to achieve their own efforts at economic independence, social prevention and the creation of institutional mechanisms for employment and the related re-adaptation and social inclusion for these people. The Act was adopted during a period of high and ever-increasing unemployment, which deepened the marginalisation of the most vulnerable groups. Today, 20 years later, we are in a slightly different situation when unemployment is no longer such a serious problem. There is no doubt, however, that there are still and there will be people excluded who need to be helped to become independent and return to the labour market. In this context, some of the changes contained in the proposed amendment should be considered to be right and could help achieve the objective of social inclusion centres and social inclusion clubs. It is acceptable to remove the conditions of poverty for access to the mechanisms provided for in the Act. There is no doubt that poverty is both the cause and effect of social exclusion and should not have a decisive impact on access to the support bill. Similarly, it should be assessed that participation in social inclusion clubs should be allowed for persons with disabilities who have a fixed right to an invalidity pension. However, there are doubts. If the amount of the integration benefit is increased to 120% unemployment benefit, instead of 100% so far , is a concept worthy of support, so there are doubts about the circumstances. First, the inclusion benefit is included in the income criterion. This is, in our opinion, an incomprehensible act. So far, the government has been guided by the concept of excluding cash benefits from the income criterion, e.g. 500+. The nature of the integration benefit also justifies such exclusion. Secondly, consideration should be given to introducing a mechanism to value the benefit in further work on the law, as well as the extent to which integration benefits are increased to a higher level. Thirdly, the bill assumes that the Social Employment Council will have at least 15 members. At present it is not more than 15. In our opinion, the proposed change is unfounded and there is no basis for it. The 15-person membership of the Social Employment Council is absolutely sufficient and there is no need expanding it. In addition, the draft law provides for an extension of the voivodeship's competence, which, upon request, will issue a decision to lose the status of the centre after the deadlines have expired in vain. This is a far-reaching rigour that does not take into account different situations. The Civic Coalition Club therefore proposes three amendments to the bill in this and above.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u366	Thank you very much. Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u367	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, On 13 June 2003, the Left Government presented the Social Employment Act. This was fully justified at the time, unemployment was 21%. In this context, when social integration centres and social inclusion clubs were set up, both by NGOs and by municipalities, in particular among the participants of these social economy entities, long-term unemployed people dominated. In time, as far as these people, these participants, were concerned, the cause changed. Besides, the bill's talking about it. Now the list of people who are directed for various reasons to CIS or KIS is open. Earlier, at the start, we had her locked up because, as I said, high unemployment. The report, which is known about the functioning of CISs and KISs at the end of 2019, shows that the centres of social inclusion were 202, more than 11 600 participants, and the clubs of social inclusion were 296, nearly 12 thousand. Participants. That's what the report says. It is also worth mentioning that as far as the basic sources of funding for social inclusion centres are concerned, this report states that in 2019 it was over PLN 75 million, of which PLN 25 million were the funds of municipalities, PLN 5.2 million were funds of regional government, and PLN 46 million were other funds, including those from the Labour Fund, but also from European funds. So it can be said that cooperation and correlation of all elements of public authority are important in the implementation of the reintegration of people at risk of social exclusion, and this is worth noting. As far as these new solutions are concerned, the legislator has adopted a number of important solutions. I would also like to stress that this law comes primarily from an assessment of its functioning and, secondly, from extensive consultation with non-governmental actors, also with the joint committee of government and local government. We as the Left would like to draw attention to the following issues. Firstly, the amount of the integration benefit is proposed by the government to increase to 120% the amount of the benefit. If we raise it to 150% , to be within 57% minimum wage. In my opinion, we should aim to ensure that there is one thing, that is the minimum wage. Secondly, increasing the integration benefit to 120% the amount of the benefit it threatens what my esteemed previous speaker has just said, unfortunately, by falling out of either family benefits or social assistance benefits. Hence, we have prepared an appropriate amendment which provides that the integration benefit does not include income within the meaning of the Family Benefits Act and the Social Welfare Act, and the second amendment which I mentioned to increase the amount of this benefit to 150%. We have the Labour Fund quite stable, little stable, with certain financial resources, it is not such a large group of people to say that this increase caused some problems in public finances. With regard to entities that form both CISs and KISs, we add here. CISs can form local government units, non-governmental organisations, including ecclesiastical organisations, and social cooperatives of legal persons, KISs can form municipalities, NGOs, ecclesiastical organisations and social cooperatives of legal persons. There are no social cooperatives of natural persons. In this respect, we add that both CIS and KIS can also create social cooperatives of individuals. Let me remind you that such cooperatives were created primarily at the beginning when we said that they must be people from social exclusion, then we introduced the possibility of creating social cooperatives by legal persons. This is the right direction. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Parliamentary Left Club (Bell) will support this government solution, because, as I mentioned, it goes in the right direction, it also has the support of the actors involved in this subject and aims to improve the functioning of... Thank you very much. ...both the participants and the conditions under which CIS and KIS operate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u368	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u369	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives I have the honour to present the position of the club regarding the government draft law amending the law on social employment and amending the law on education in sobriety and combating alcoholism from print no. 1834. The changing situation in the labour market, the absence of employment of people who are away from the labour market, who are faced with a life problem and other conditions make it necessary to amend this law. The Act was adopted on 13 June 2003, so the 19th year of its validity in this form. During this time there have been many changes in our country and legislation. The system of many institutions and a number of legal provisions have changed. It was therefore necessary to amend the Social Employment Act. The main changes to be made by this law relate primarily to an increase in social benefits of 100%. up to 120% so that it differs from unemployment benefits, which will allow more activation of excluded persons. The amendments make it possible to participate in social inclusion clubs for persons who have a fixed right to an invalidity pension. The new rules also allow the provision of reintegration services outside the place where social inclusion centres operate and extend the catalogue of entities entitled to create CISs and KISs. On the other hand, the reservation calls for a change enabling the voivod to take supervisory action towards social inclusion centres, as set out in Article. 1 points 5 and 6 of the draft law, which shows that it is the voivode who is to control and decide whether the entity in question will operate in the market for the next 5 years, where there is a clear need for its operation. The question therefore arises as to whether these centres should not operate indefinitely, which would ensure greater stability for those who use them and for those who are their founding bodies. On the other hand, it is justified to change the allocation of grants granted by the Marshal of the voivodship to the equipment of CISs and KISs. This is due to the need to equip these institutions and the changing labour market. The catalogue of sources of funding has also changed, which has been opened up to new opportunities, such as resort schemes for the development of social employment actors. The amendment of the law also changed the weekly time of stay at the centre of social inclusion. To date, the standard has been mandatory 6 hours per day, but after the change, the participation will cover the whole week and will be at least 30 hours and not more than 40 hours per week. The number of days off from social inclusion centers has been increased to 12 and the days of incapacity due to illness have been increased to 21. In addition, the draft law amending the Social Employment Act and certain other laws contains a number of amendments of a more specific nature, which are right and necessary. It is important that these records have been consulted with local governments and many other institutions, as provided by the Minister yesterday at the meeting of the cultural committee. However, it is worth leaning on whether the support provided for this amendment, i.e. increasing the benefit from 100% up to 120% Unemployment benefit should not simply be a minimum wage. Support in the current formula is included in the income criterion and its beneficiary may lose the right to social assistance and, as we know, it is particularly important for these people (the bell) because they need such support first of all. Therefore, on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party, I am making an appropriate amendment in this respect. Most of the solutions proposed in this law are right and necessary. Our club will vote in favour of this bill. And now I'm making an amendment to your marshal's hand. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u370	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u371	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The records of the proceded project The Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 considers it beneficial and can certainly count on our support. The doubts raise the details of how the introduction of supervision by the voivode mentioned here, but they do not, of course, undermine the positive context of the whole. The law is of course broader in nature, but I will focus on questions about activation of people in the crisis of homelessness, because they are focused on the activities of a special group of Polish volunteers 2050. It's about 1,000 a day. people from our movement provide assistance in the form of streetworking, feeding, running support facilities from Pomerania to Podkarpatha, in Poznań, Kielce, Police, Wołomina, Bydgoszcz, Kraków, Opole in Silesia. I thank them for this, and on their behalf I ask: Does the Minister see that it is necessary to strengthen the CIS and the KIS in smaller centres? Because lack of local support often involves the need to migrate to larger centres, and this later causes this known problem with the so-called. Ping-pong. The point is that according to the law, a homeless person or person in a homeless crisis is responsible for the municipality, which is the last place to check in, and then this municipality does not want to pay any other institution that is located in a larger resort. CIS and KIS would be very useful in smaller towns, because there is a very big need to reintegrate such people. Is the Ministry also planning additional support for CIS participants or KIS on mental health issues? The point is, is this is often a huge cause of their problems with keeping their jobs and their homes? And finally, isn't it worth ending up so officially in this bill with the term: homeless people who repeat themselves here, I understand it, behind the Social Aid Act, but which sort of stigmatizes and creates such a separate kind of people? After all, only two unpaid loan instalments are divided by many Poles from falling into the homeless crisis. It's kind of a little thing, but it's very important for people who are taking a lot of trouble to find a job and get back to being independent. We will support this project as much as possible. We will also support the amendments tabled by the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u372	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government bill amending the Social Employment Act is a good direction, it's a good project, but the amendments we tabled to the bill are simply necessary. The integration benefit received by beneficiaries of the aid contained in the project is needed because they will not be concerned that the benefit is included in the income criterion, so that they may lose other social benefits. Such persons may have to give up one or the other, and that would be very unfavorable. It is necessary to do everything possible for those excluded to benefit from the tools that you give them, so I have a heartfelt request to the parliamentary majority to accept our amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u374	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u375	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! By the way, I would like to ask you about the problem of sealing the ban on the premium sale of alcoholic beverages. According to the rules in force, the premium sale of alcoholic beverages is an example of a prohibited form of promotion, but this does not apply to beer. As an example, let one of the networks - I will not mention its name - which first sells beer at a lower price, making the price dependent on the purchase of a drink in a minimum quantity of three bottles or cans, and now encourages the purchase of up to four packs in promotion. Such promotion increases the consumption of beer, which is also more drunk and unfortunately addictive. If you have any doubts, ask the traffic officer if beer is alcohol or not. Shouldn't the amendment of the law change the content of the article. 46? It is a change in the definition of alcoholic beverages and the assumption that an alcohol drink is a product intended for consumption containing (The bell) ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin in a concentration exceeding 0,2% the volume of alcohol. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u376	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u377	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have only one short question about the change in the amount from PLN 1700 to PLN 1750. What is the result of this calculation? This is a relatively small change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u378	Thank you, sir. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u379	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is a concern that the inclusion of the benefit in the income criterion will significantly reduce the group of beneficiaries. Aren't you afraid of that? This problem has been reported by so many people in the Chamber that I think the amendment is simply necessary. If this law is really meant to fulfil the task it has been assigned, an amendment must be adopted. Second question. CIS may set up social cooperatives established by legal entities, not by natural persons. Could I ask you to answer the question, what is the reason for limiting this to legal persons only? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u380	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Act assumes that in order to benefit from the support of social inclusion centres, it will no longer be necessary to comply with the so-called "social integration centres." the conditions for poverty determining access to the instruments provided for in the Act. This is the right solution because poverty itself, which can be both the cause and the result of social exclusion, should not have a decisive impact on access to support. Nevertheless, looking more closely at the situation of social welfare in Poland, one cannot overlook the fact that this year's increases in gas and electricity prices will have a drastic impact on welfare homes, children's homes, environmental self-help homes, accommodation facilities or single mother's homes. Therefore, I ask you to answer the question: What kind of protective measures do you intend to take to reduce the effects of these drastic increases? When can concrete action be expected in this area? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u382	Thank you, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. There's no envoy. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis. There isn't any either. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska. Excuse me, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. I am so sorry, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u383	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The Act provides for the possibility of operating the Centre in the form of a local government budget establishment. A local government budget facility may be co-financed in the form of an entity grant from the institution creating it. This is a new solution. I remember that such bodies had functioned before, and later the reform of one of the ministers had eliminated this possibility. The alarm has been raised by these actors and we've been working to make sure it doesn't fall over. We now come back to this, and I would therefore like to ask, on whose request - the local government or other bodies - this is a good solution in the context of the public consultation, in my opinion, which provides more opportunities for the legal functioning of the CIS organised by the JST. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u384	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u385	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Social inclusion centres are an important element in supporting those who have difficulties in finding employment. There are provisions in the Law on which the need to apply the criterion of poverty will cease to apply, i.e. it will not prevent this form of aid from being used. This is a very good change. My question concerns those who can direct them to social inclusion centres. Will only municipal aid centres be able to directly decide whether to take part in classes, or will the head of the Social Integration Centre be able to decide that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u386	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left. There's no envoy. Mr Marek Dyduch, also the Left Club. You're welcome. [[What about me?]] Excuse me, Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left. Excuse me, sir, the computer jumped. [[I'm sorry.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u387	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister relating to the purpose, the task enshrined in the Act on the possibility that the Minister may develop and financially support resort programmes for the development of social inclusion centres and clubs. Since the Act enters into force within two weeks or two months of its adoption, this means that these programmes must already be very advanced and budgeted. I would therefore like to ask, at what stage are these preparations, which programmes the Minister thinks about and what programmes he intends to implement, what costs are involved and what is included in the budget law on this matter, in general, what the financial situation is. So far, there have been EU programmes (the bell) and will they work or not? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u388	Thank you, Member. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u389	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In line with the objective set for social inclusion centres and social inclusion clubs, they are to deal with people who are excluded, who are unable to cope with life for various reasons, mostly alcoholic, but also others. The goal is to help them, but also to enable them to return to their normal lives. My question is: What percentage of those people we help return to normal life, whether they are big or small, although I realise that some part of the Polish society, like everyone else in the world, simply needs constant help because it is not doing well. I wonder how many people return to normal functioning and to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u390	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Władysław Kurowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u391	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law that we are amending is almost 20 years old, so both the centres and clubs, as well as the participants in these centres and clubs, are looking forward to the good solutions that we are proposing right now. There are many, I will mention even those that have not been discussed here, among others. about the possibility for the Marshal of the voivodship to finance not only the first equipment, but also the next or co-financing of clubs by the municipalities, which was not before, from the so-called. cork collected in municipalities. These are good solutions. My question, Minister, is: How will these solutions affect the facilities for the creation of new centres and clubs, as well as the acquisition of new participants (the Bell) who will be able to use the centres and clubs we are talking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u392	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u393	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the funding of the CIS. I mean, the catalog that was open was extended by the so-called funds. Corky. The most common cause of alcoholism, especially in small towns, is the lack of work. And that's a good direction, in my opinion, because it makes it possible to fight the cause of alcoholism. I would therefore ask for information, if you have such a minister, about how often the municipalities have used this possibility so far and how much this provision will promote this very good way of using these funds. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u394	Thank you very much. And Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u395	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My doubts are raised by provisions on the financing of integration centres. I am afraid that the provisions of the Act may lead to a shift of responsibilities concerning the financing of these units between the local government and the budget and to very large differences in the functioning of the various centres. May I kindly ask the Minister to answer my question in writing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u396	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u397	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the debate and support of the Law on the revision of the Social Employment Act. Madam Teresa Wargock, rapporteur for the committee, discussed the draft itself in very detail. I think there is no need to repeat the changes that are in this project. Maybe I can give you some information about the situation of CISs and KISs at the moment - there were also such questions - so that we can know where we are. As it has been repeated many times here, the law has already been a dozen years old and was established in 2003. Today we have a different situation. We are talking about those who have the most difficulty in terms of the situation in the labour market, but also the situation of life. We are looking for solutions to help these people through reintegration programs, to get them out of this or to get them to work so that they can function normally. And it's not easy, especially now, in this situation where we have... We have a good situation on the labour market. It's harder. But I'll give you some information. These will be a bit similar to the information that Mr Tomaszewski provided. It's about the information we always present to the High Sejm... It's been passed over in two years, now it's going to be transferred in three years. The latest information is from 2020. There were 193 centres and 237 social inclusion clubs in our country. Compared to previous years, this was an increase of almost 40% for centres. As far as the clubs are concerned, they were on a similar level. What is also important in terms of lead actors, the vast majority of CISs, more than 66%, was run by NGOs, almost 30% - by local government units, 4% - by social cooperatives. As far as clubs are concerned, most of them are also nearly 66%. - by local government units, the rest - practically by NGOs. As far as the distribution of these units in our country is concerned, the leading regions are: Śląskie, Wielkopolskie, Pomorskie, and in the case of KIS - voivodship: Małopolskie and Warmińsko-Mazurskie. As regards participants, those who participate in classes, on average in recent years around 11 000 have benefited from social inclusion centres. persons per year. This is comparable to 2019. Importantly, 40% of participants they were long-term unemployed, that was one of the elements that decided to take them into the centers, 14% - addicts, 12% - disabled persons, 5.6% - homeless persons, 2.5% - mentally ill people. As far as KIS is concerned, 9 000 used them in 2019. persons. Most of them are long-term unemployed. With regard to one of the questions: the purpose of these programs... It is about how many of these people later take up work or are already in the normal labour market. In 2020, 1.7 thousand were economically self-emancipated. participants in the centres, i.e. 37% participants. That's what this information tells us. In the case of KISs - 2,3 thousands. people, which is 35%. That's less than 40%. people who participate in programmes of both centres and KISs, become independent after these classes. It is also important that the most common condition for the independence of CIS participants was to take up work with the employer. We do not include supported employment. This is also important information in the case of changes that we have made. There's a number of these changes. These, of course, are intended to make it much easier to receive and direct people through social assistance centres. We want to keep this - it was one of the questions - that social assistance centers decide what people are addressed to CIS or KIS, but this condition of poverty, the income criterion in terms of overshooting the minimum... So we're definitely going to make this easier, but we're aware that from this group that we're integrating at 40%... Maybe after these changes, this is the assumption of this law, the number of these people will be much greater. There were three threads here. They are tabled as part of the amendments. We also discussed them on the committee. The issue of not including income for inclusion provision. We don't change that here. We raise this integration benefit to 120% unemployment benefit. Earlier, at 100% We included that income, too. The unemployment benefit is also included. We don't have permission to turn it off when it comes to income. As far as supervision of the voivodship is concerned, I think there is some confusion, because we wanted to give more opportunities for the proper functioning of the CIS and the KIS by means of the fact that the voivode in this entire 5-year period will be able to request an activity report. The point is that there is no situation, that after 5 years it turns out that the individual does not function or function badly and needs to be closed down. This will facilitate the functioning of the KIS and CIS, and there is nothing else here about the issue of this supervision... It is about facilitating the early warning of those individuals that arise. Self-government units. There's a question here, too. I must also thank the Social Employment Council, which has been very much involved in the work on this law. One of those demands... There were other demands that were made by the board by the members. They fit in this bill. We change, among other things. what concerned the possibility of setting up CISs and KISs only by social cooperatives of legal persons. It will also be in the Act that they will be able to do so by natural persons, that is to say, an action that will significantly facilitate this operation. So thank you again for this discussion. I hope that the changes that we have introduced, that this quite wide range of changes will result in a greater interest on the part of local government units as well as on the part of NGOs in creating CISs and KISs, because I will remind you that this is an optional, optional action, and that each party must have, so to speak, a desire to act, and we know that this is the demand, because we have people around us who need such support, and I think that this amendment creates better conditions for them to help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u398	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[One sentence, Marshal.]] Please, my fellow Member, I am the only one who can finish. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u399	Thank you very much. As we are still working on the bill, there are amendments, I would like to say that the committee meeting will be held at noon. 18 in room 412 in building U. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u400	Thank you very much, Member. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government's draft legislation on passport documents (prints 1833 and 1898). I would like to ask Mr Jan Szopiński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u401	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I have the honour to present the results of the work on the draft legislation on passport documents in print 1833. The work of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs consisted of two meetings of the committee and a nearly six-hour meeting of the subcommittee, at which we tried to develop the best model of this draft law, contained in print No 1833. The Government's draft legislation on passport documents concerns the construction of a new Register of Passport Documents carried out within the framework of the project, the development of the System of State Registers, i.e. the merger of the most important Polish registers, including the PESEL register, the Register of Personal Evidence, the Register of Civil Status and the Register of Contact Data, which will allow for easier and faster implementation of many cases of Polish citizens related to the wider administration and it will be possible to extend the scope of matters that citizens can carry out electronically regardless of the place where the case is initiated. On the one hand, I would like to emphasise the deep desire to work out the best possible solutions in this respect from the state administration, as well as from the ladies and gentlemen of Members. In this respect, it seems that it has been possible to improve or present new solutions under the existing document, for example, so that passports can be issued for 50% of the fees to firefighters of the voluntary fire department and to persons who were able to grant rescue services under the law that we have examined in this House on 17 December 2021, as well as to volunteers serving in mountain rescue units. In this respect, I welcome the government's acceptance of the possibility of issuing diplomatic passports for voivodships, voivodship marshals and members of the voivodship boards and consent to the amendment of the article. 90, which provided that the charge for each use of the service may not be higher than 0,5% average wage in the national economy. This fee applies to banks that would have the chance to use the IT resources associated with issuing passports. The government side agreed to a log that says 0.5%. During the work on the final form of this law, we used many opinions, including the opinion issued by the Sejm Analysis Office, which gave an opinion at the request of the chairman of our committee, Mr Wiesław Szczepański, who asked whether replacing the currently used concept with one of the parents, with the return of the Sejm's mother and father, would not make it contrary to the concept used to date, its understanding in the light of other European Union rules which use them, among others. with our Act on Personal Evidence, the Law on Civil Status Records, the Practice so far and judicial case law. According to the opinion obtained, we have obtained such a sentence that the government draft legislation on passport documents replaces the currently used concept of "mother or father," and both the concept of "parent" and the concept of "mother or father" are currently used in the current normative acts. Therefore, the meaning of the terms in question seems to be similar, and they are most often used together with the concept of a guardian or guardian to indicate that a person who is a statutory representative of a minor may carry out certain activities or appropriate notifications to the authorities for his or her benefit. Dear Marshal! So much for my report. I am convinced that both the government and the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament will make comments in this reading, which will clarify the provisions of our report on our bill. I am convinced that the proposals contained in our committee's report meet, on the one hand, the letters, the proposals we received as Members and, on the other hand, they were common wisdom developed by Members and by the Government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u402	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mrs Agata Katarzyna Wojtyszek, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u403	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club regarding the government's draft passport bill, 1833 and 1898 prints. The present Act of 13 July 2006 on passport documents has been amended several times, bringing a number of important and expected social changes. However, all expectations stemming from changing socio-legal conditions have not been met. It is therefore necessary to make major changes to the system for issuing passport documents, which will improve and simplify the process of applying for and improving the security of the passport document. These objectives should be made using modern means of communication and new information technologies. It has therefore become necessary to re-draft legislation laying down rules for the implementation of passport cases. The proposed law provides for the construction of a new register of passport documents within the framework of the project, the development of a system of state registers, which is of strategic importance to the State. The project involves building new and modernising existing registers and setting standards for the incorporation of future state registers. The passport register will allow the launch of e-services for citizens, including the possibility of verifying the validity of the passport, verifying the correctness of the data collected in the passport register, ensuring direct and ongoing information to citizens about passport readiness, informing about changes in passport status. It will also be possible to immediately report the loss of a passport, increasing the safety of the person for whom the lost passport has been issued. As a result of the creation of a register of passport documents, traditional services will be modified, a paper version of the passport application will be removed. The application will be generated in the register of passport documents by the official and then signed by the applicant on the signature collection device. In addition, when receiving the passport document instead of the absolute requirement to confirm identity only on the basis of a valid identity document, it was also proposed that the identity of the person should be confirmed on the basis of a fingerprint by comparing the fingerprint of the recipient with the fingerprint recorded in the passport document. According to the proposed law, the proposed legislation sets out a catalogue of entities exempt from the obligation to pay a passport fee, a catalogue of entities entitled to pay a reduced passport fee, as well as statutory maximum limits for exemptions. The provisions of this act provide for a reduction to 12 years of age from which passports with a 10-year period of validity and signature will be issued. Persons under the age of 12 will receive a passport with a 5-year validity period. Another change in the period of validity of the passport document in relation to current legislation concerns the term of validity of the so-called. the second passport. In the current legal state, the second passport is valid for 2 years from the date of issue, and the proposed amendment implies extending the validity of the second passport to 3 years. The Act also provides for easier procedures for applying for a second passport. After the changes they will be issued by voivodeships and consuls, thereby taking over the competences of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. In addition, the catalogue of persons who will be entitled to hold a temporary passport has been extended. It is about minors who, in connection with the continuation of education, the development of individual skills or the need to provide care for them, urgently need to travel abroad. The proposed law provides that the refusal to issue a passport document will be made by means of a decision issued by the passport authority, from which no appeal will be granted, and such action will have an impact on the summary shortening of the procedures for refusing to issue a passport document by a quicker decision by the administrative court as to whether or not it is justified, restricting the right of the citizen in this respect. The government bill deserves to be passed as soon as possible. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend that the law and justice continue to work on this bill without delay. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u404	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Maria Piekarska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u405	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition on the draft law on passport documents. The Passport Documents Act has been amended several times and there is no doubt that there is a need to prepare a new comprehensive law which will repeal the current legislation. One of the most important changes concerns the construction of the Register of Passport Documents. By building a register, it will be possible to launch e-services for citizens related to passport issues, e.g. verifying the validity of the passport or the declaration of the loss of the passport. A paper application will disappear in the new state of law and the entire procedure will be automated. A circle of people has also been extended who will be entitled to relief when issuing their passport. These people are included in the catalogue, among others. persons with the status of a communist opposition activist, as well as, what we are very pleased about, firefighters and rescuers of CSR. However, if everything is to be simpler and automated, then why, Minister, will we still have to receive passport documents personally in the passport body in which the application for it was submitted? In most countries such a passport document is sent to the citizen. After all, in the same project it is possible to send a passport document by the consul, although the situation here concerns a passport issued abroad. I don't think we have any trust in our Polish Post, and we have confidence in foreign mail. We also believe that the provision of the article. Article 75 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, which excludes the possibility of appealing against a decision declaring the passport document invalid, is unsupported and incomprehensible. A citizen should have the right to appeal by administrative means. In today's legal situation, in the case of a decision to revoke a passport, an appeal shall be granted. And another very important thing. During the consultation, the Ombudsman communicated his concerns that Polish citizens born abroad and living there, whose parents are of the same sex, have no possibility or great difficulty in obtaining Polish documents. These important concerns are all the more aggravated by the fact that the current law states: parent, parents have been replaced by father, mother. I share the ombudsman's concerns that such a provision in the future may make it difficult to issue a passport for a minor whose parents are of the same sex, especially since the VI annex to the Schengen Borders Code uses the term "parents of the minor'. The Minister said a very important sentence yesterday at the committee meeting, and I will quote it: in Poland no one will be excluded, no matter what family he lives in. I'll take it. I'll remember. Minister, I take your word for it, and I hope that if there are any problems with issuing a passport document to a minor from a rainbow family, you will be the first to initiate a change of those rules and intervene. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u406	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u407	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the committee's work on this project, we met with a lot of government openness. We're very happy about that. Several of our amendments have been adopted, including reducing the maximum possible fees for issuing a passport document, for access to a service confirming the existence or non-existence of a passport document and concerning the powers of voivodships and vice-voivodships and marshals, deputy marshals and members of local governments to hold a diplomatic passport based on the provisions of this law. I feel that this is important in terms of developing relations with the Ukrainian side in particular. I also hope that no amendments to this issue will be made. The important thing is that the meetings of this committee also had a practical dimension. We discussed the issue of issuing passports as a matter of duty, which, however, burden the citizen, because in fact once every 10 years it takes two days of your leave to get this document. The Minister has committed himself to work with the voivodships on the possibility of submitting an application, making an appointment for an electronic application, as well as on the possibility that the receipt of a passport document or the submission of an application may also take place after hours, i.e. after hours. 15 or a day off from work. I hope that happens. We have also raised the issue of the possibility of receiving a passport document in municipalities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister was not polite to refer to this at the committee meeting. Perhaps today he will use this time to say whether this is a matter to consider, because it would actually make it easier for citizens to collect, to receive a passport. This would, of course, be done personally and in the office to which the citizen is accustomed, close to his place of residence. Thank you very much. There's another point I'm going to talk about when I ask questions. I will mention that the Civic Coalition supports this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u408	Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u409	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The past few years have significantly changed the social expectations of the functioning of the offices and the availability of data contained in the most important reporting systems. The reality of migration has also changed. Poles became citizens of the world, and the wide world increasingly expressed its interest in our country. All these factors have led to the need to create an efficient and coherent passport registration system, which is one of the basic documents for verifying the identity of our citizens in addition to IDs. The proposed law brings with it a number of important and important changes. The construction of a new Register of Passport Documents, as the government informs us, is a direct and crucial reason for the need to re-regulate the way in which passport cases are carried out. The development of the State Register System is a project of strategic importance for the State. The system of State Registers is a organisational and technical solution used to keep public registers. I will no longer mention these registers, because they are mentioned in the explanatory memorandum of the Act. The main advantage of the new document register is to centralize the existing system based on two data registers, i.e. the central register of passport documents issued and cancelled and the citizen's passport service system. Thanks to the construction of this register it will be possible to launch e-services for citizens, including among others. enable verification of the validity of the passport, verification of the correctness of the data collected in the passport register, as well as the functionality of the Contact Data Register. It can therefore be considered that the proposed changes are intentional and move towards a uniform, secure and efficient registration system ensuring proper service to the citizen. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, I would like to make amendments to our club, which aim at an even better understanding of the bill. These amendments go, among others. in this direction, so that the combatants, those who fought for the freedom of our homeland, can benefit from the possibility that passports are issued to them without payment of the passport fee. In the document we received, there is this payment of 50%. We kindly bring to the government that the amendments I am proposing on behalf of the club here are - as has been the case so far - accepted and accepted by the government. I believe that very much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u410	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Biernacki, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u411	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I present my position towards the government's draft law on passport documents, 1833 and 1898 prints. Our position is naturally positive, and I'm going to say it at the very beginning, as I suspect most of the clubs. The proposed law contains provisions governing the comprehensive implementation of passport cases, including, inter alia, Such as the establishment of the Register of Passport Documents, the systematicisation of passport fees, the simplification of procedures for applying for a second passport, the issue of temporary passports by the Minister of Home Affairs due to the important interest of the State, the extension of the catalogue of entities authorised to hold a temporary passport and new forms of declaration of loss of passport documents. For me personally and also for my club the most important solution included in the government project is the construction of a new Register of Passport Documents - this is very important - which will operate within the System of State Registers. Like my previous speaker said - here I agree completely - these are strategic decisions that go in a very good direction. This is a big challenge, a response to the challenge of the present, the present and the future. This is also a challenge for you when it comes to securing these registers, because they must be really well guarded. The new register will contain data that have so far been scattered in several registers. And so the Register of Passport Documents will replace, among others. central records of documents issued and cancelled and local records kept within the framework of the citizen's passport service system. The creation of the Register of Passport Documents is intended on the one hand to allow for faster circulation of information, referenceability of data and access to up-to-date data to all passport authorities and on the other hand to practically make it possible to waive the paper version of the passport application for an electronic application which may be generated by the passport officer. The request will be signed by the citizen after approval by means of an electronic signature device. The Register of Passport Documents should also leave the strict request for identification when applying for a passport because the register will allow the passport authorities to compare data and confirm identity on the basis of state registers. In addition, it will be possible to obtain a passport to confirm the identity of the person on the basis of fingerprints of fingerprints, by comparing the fingerprint of the recipient with the fingerprint recorded in the passport received. It is also important and here I am saying this very clearly at the request of Mrs Urszula Nowogrodzka, Nowogórska - I apologize very much, Ula - I just want to draw attention to the amendment in Chapter 3 which has been voted together with the Members of all groups. These are discounts for CSR's mates by 50%. With this optimistic accent, I'd like to end this. I'm sorry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u412	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u413	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Print No 1833, the Government's draft legislation on passport documents, replaces the 2006 Act. It comprehensively regulates and deals with the construction of a new Register of Passport Documents implemented within the framework of the "Development of the System of State Registers" project. This is a combination of the most important Polish registers, including among others. the PESEL register, the Register of Personal Evidence, the Register of Civil Status and the Register of Contact Data. The regulation is correct, modern, improving access to this information, will certainly speed up the process of issuing passports. We hope that this will be digitally well secured and that it will be fully comfortable to collect data. There are a lot of benefits from this regulation, and I'll name three random ones. Passport fees will be simplified. Procedure for refusal and annulment of a passport document at the request of an authorised entity, e.g. The court or the D.A. will be cut short. The new passport system will also inform you of the loss of validity of the document, allow you to immediately report the loss of the document, which will end the era of filling out the paper form at the office. So this is digitization in a good way. The Polish state should undoubtedly control the necessary data, control its own registers, make proper use of them, thus hindering the actions of fraudsters, criminals, terrorists or strangers. We also hope that passports will be well secured, in the most state-of-the-art way possible. By the way, with regard to the Minister's remarks in the context of control over the information: Do the Polish services and police have access and do they pay attention to criminal records of the European Union countries in a range that differs from the date of removal or typing of offences within Polish time limits when it comes to crossing the conviction? Here's the doubt I'm throwing away while I'm at it. Of course, we will look very carefully at who these passports are coming to, whether the ease of issuing them will not affect the increase in migration to Poland, we hope for full control. It enjoys a clear reference to k.r.o. and use the phrase: father, mother. This is, of course, the deepest biological truth about two sexes. May Poland in this respect be the basis of normality. Congratulations, by the way, to Mrs Żukowska of the Left victory in the Bio Nonsense Plebiscite 2021 for a sentence: There are situations where biological men have babies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u414	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u415	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It is a good thing that this law, although long, because it counts as many as 111 articles, managed to process in mini-max mode, i.e. minimum unnecessary words, maximum good law. The work at the session of the Parliament's committee, as well as the subcommittee, was smooth. The Passport Documents Act turns out to be necessary, because the way passport cases were implemented has changed in Poland, among others. a register of passport documents shall be established. In the explanatory memorandum of the proposal, the amendment of the law also forced other factors, such as a change of approach in the relations between the administration and the citizen, which is currently focused on the aim of maximum simplification of administrative procedures and their ITisation. We believe that this will actually happen. We believe that simplified administrative procedures will be visible. In order to reduce the time required to request a document, eliminate unnecessary activities of the passport body, so that the implementation of the passport case is quick not to say: instantly, the rules will be simplified, for example, regarding fees for issuing documents, including exemptions, or immediately inform about the passport's readiness to receive or to lose its validity. Therefore, for my part, as well as for the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050, a mini-max, which is a minimum of words, because we can see the need for the Sejm to adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u416	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to come forward for the question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u417	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My point concerns the issue of issuing child passports in an emergency and, at the same time, the lack of consent of one parent and the absence of an appropriate court ruling replacing the consent of the other parent. In accordance with the provisions for issuing a passport document to a person under 18 years of age, the consent of her mother and father shall be required, except where the mother or father has been deprived of parental authority or their parental authority has been suspended or limited in the issue of that document. In the event of a failure to comply with the positions of the mother and father or to obtain the consent of one of them, the issuing of the passport document shall replace the decision of the family court. The legislation takes into account the special case of the issue of a child's passport without the consent of one of the parents or the consent of the court if it is impossible or significantly difficult to obtain the consent of the mother or father provided that it is located outside the borders of the Republic of Poland, without reservation that this passport should serve to return to the country. Given the modern conditions in which people's migration is extremely common (the bell), their whereabouts are sometimes inconclusive, and the courts are acting as we know, I would like to ask whether it would be advisable to extend this particular case to the situations in which the child is present in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u418	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u419	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the sound of the article. 21 on the reduction of the passport fee. This article distinguishes between minors up to 12 years of age and minors between 12 and 18 years of age and provides for a difference in the reduction of the passport fee for these two groups of minors. It should be noted that these people are usually unemployed, without income, unless someone aged 17, 18 takes up a small activity. On the other hand, there is an exemption from the passport fee for persons aged 70 or over. I wanted to ask (the bell), however, why under this law minors were not exempt from the passport fee, because they do not have income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u420	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u421	Passport document is a good exemplification of the principle of Cuius regio, eius religion - whose authority, its religion. However, this principle must have its limits and it should concern the image of the citizen in the passport card. On the basis of my own image, my passport showed that the way of editing the passport causes the citizen's face to have a concentration of signs and a sequence of letters of the Polish Republic, even several times. I ignore the fact, or perhaps not, because it is important to stress the fact that the image is a personal good and even the state authority has no right to violate it and should also be obliged to protect it. At the same time, it should be noted that such an edited passport may be illegible to some border guards or used as an excuse not to let a citizen in. I expect the Minister to make a clear declaration that this evident error in editing will be corrected in order to protect the fundamental (Bell) civil rights. One of them is the right not to violate one's own image, the image of a citizen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u422	Thank you. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u423	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project involves a number of important changes, among others. the creation of a passport register or the cancellation of a paper form of the application. As we know, every year for many years, mainly from May to July, the problem of huge queues is repeated, where the interested often have to wait a few hours to apply for a passport and this happens both across the country and in consular facilities. However, with bad experience as regards the ideas of the current government to create regulations that were intended to improve action and in practice turned out to be quite the opposite, I ask you to give a concrete answer to the question whether the institutions are prepared to make changes to such an extent that this does not interfere with normal work. Are the authorities ready to implement the system efficiently without harming the citizens and will the workers be properly (the bell) implemented and trained? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u424	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u425	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is still a lot of concern among citizens about the possibility of copying or using personal data and biometrics contained in passports in case of loss or theft of a passport. Therefore, my constituents often ask me this type of question: Are Polish passports 100% secure and does the Ministry have data from Interpol or from the services of the European Union countries on the number of the thefts of biometric passports data? If you, Minister, would like to answer that question, I would be very obliged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u426	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u427	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is a group of people in Poland who do not want to share their biometric data. Their arguments are different, most often talking about privacy protection and lack of faith in the effectiveness of security of their data. Minister! Is there any form of obtaining a Polish passport for such a group of people? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u428	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u429	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The report provides for a reduction in the payment of passport documents, including in point 17, for firefighters, rescuers, volunteers and rescue workers. I would ask us to remember by informing the public that these are not all volunteer firefighters, because there are 700,000 of them, only those who have the authority to participate in rescue operations, i.e. about 200,000. persons, plus those who will receive rescue benefits. I have a question for the Minister. Paragraph 18, the next one, speaks of those who serve in mountain rescuers, but we also granted rescue services to mountain rescuers, but we did not include them here anymore. Therefore, it is worth (the bell), it is a small group, it is worth to run 18 during the Senate work in a manner consistent with the 17th. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u430	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left. There's no envoy. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u431	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The family and caring code uses the concept of parents, so why do you write about your mother and father in this bill? You know very well that such a record can lead to difficulties in issuing a document for a person whose parents are of the same sex. The Ombudsman also raises such concerns. [[There are no parents like that.]] In the last study, we are a family of as much as 76%. Poles and Poles said that the state should protect children raised by same-sex couples from persecution from the environment. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, Minister Chezernaker stated that this amendment would not hinder rainbow families from transcription of passports. Minister! So it's a simple question. Do you confirm these words today? Will this law guarantee the right of single-sex couples to register passports and other documents for their children? Yes or no? [[♪ The bell ♪]] There can be no agreement to discrimination. In Poland thousands of children are raised by single-sex couples. Understand that and respect it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: More than 20?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u432	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, Law and Justice. [[Mistakingly, Your Marshal, I've been entered. Me to the next point.]] Good. Mr. Piotr Boris, Civil Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u433	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The passport document bill is going in the right direction. I think that the committee's legislative work has shown that the excellent majority of the amendments have been adopted. A register of passport documents is created, information about citizens is centralized in a naturally safe way, there are e-services that are designed to simplify citizens' lives. I would like to ask the Minister, with this whole package of important facilitations, of course, whether we cannot involve all local authorities, from local authorities to county authorities, which, after all, have the whole scope and system of public confidence, to make life easier for citizens in terms of at least collecting passports if it is not possible to send a passport by post at this moment. It's a way to make it easier to verify. We even mentioned that some people have to take a special 2 days off to come once every 10 years (the bell), submit an application and pick up. Consider this part, which is part of the state's trust also in all local governments, which, after all, are also a very important part of public life. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u434	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u435	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I hear many signals from Polish people, who live mainly in England, but not only about big problems in obtaining passports. According to the current legislation, the biggest problems are: long waiting, generally more than 6 months, to obtain a passport, which does not work in the passport area, difficulties in registering in the electronic system and making an appointment for a specific deadline to submit documents, and a number of other issues that involve it - I mentioned the most important ones. I have a question to the Minister: Is this legislation that simplifies the whole system of obtaining passports, that the problems of Polish Polonia will disappear or not? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u436	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u437	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the proposed bill, in a sort of wholesale way, the concept of parent changes to the concept of mother and father. So I have a question for the projectors: What really is the reason for this change? Where did this need come from? Such concepts have functioned in passport laws for many decades and no one could think of changing that. Do you realize that the introduction of such solutions will create or can create not only additional problems for single-sex couples, Poles and Poles who live abroad and who are applying for a Polish passport for their children, but above all it may be a hit on the right of the child, the right of a Pole, a Polish child to obtain a document, a document which is necessary for the normal functioning of such a child in international space. The recent resolutions of the Supreme Administrative Court show a clear and simple obligation - the State's obligation to issue passports to children raised in single-sex families. So is the bill designed to counter the situation that the Supreme Administrative Court has confirmed? Has the MSWiA consulted this amendment, e.g. Ordo Iuris? Whether you want it or not, the Law and Justice state of Poland and Poles enter the same-sex relationship in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Croatia, Slovenia, the United Kingdom. There they have their children and want Polish children to have a Polish passport. These amendments make it difficult for the state to obtain a passport for small Polish children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u438	Thank you very much. Mrs Robert Obaz, Left. [[Bravo, Krzysiek, great.]] [[I'm glad you liked it.]] [[Prima Aprilis.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u439	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill goes pretty far, but it could go further. In Dolnośląskie voivodship, for example, there are three other places in Wrocław where you can make a passport. Today we make ID cards at every municipal office, also biometrics, which means all the devices that are needed to get prints are at the municipal offices. Shouldn't we go further and apply through the municipalities' offices? So that residents of small towns or smaller municipalities such as Lubań, Zgorzelec and Bolesławiec do not have to travel to or to the beautiful Jelenia Góra or to Legnica or to Wroclaw, only in the municipality could they directly submit such an application and also receive this request. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u440	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Krutul, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Ministry. Why can't you apply for a passport in the 21st century just as much as for an I.D. - electronically? And so the citizen must appear personally at the office many times. The office is several dozen kilometers away from the place of residence, such as in me in Podlaskie Voivodeship, from Białowieża to Białystok - 80 km, from Siemiatycz to Białystok - 100 km. I believe that in an era of pandemics, we should make special use of the electronic way in order to avoid the personal contact of officials with applicants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u442	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u443	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to thank you for bringing the system together. We all know that the passport data system will now operate in the system of state registers. I wanted to ask the Minister whether a new security system, a cybersystem, was created, could be defined as such, and was consulted with the relevant services that deal with such matters, and whether those who will be administrators of this data have updated security certificates. And on the occasion, I also thank you for including and introducing yesterday's amendments, which appeared at the committee meeting and concern the fact that the voluntary firefighters will have 50% discounts on obtaining a passport document. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u444	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u445	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Continuing the thought of my predecessor, looking at what is happening in the world today - supposedly Russians win elections in the United States, supposedly we are monitoring some ministers, supposedly Pegasus in Poland works - I have a question about data protection in the passport register: Is it clear who has access, who is responsible for security in this case and who is responsible if these rules are broken? Because in present times, as we will add to this still a huge scale of migration, which is taking place worldwide, manipulation and access to the most secret flows, such as. Bank flows that do not guarantee the security of citizens, although in one place we would like to have full security, are that no one will monitor us (the bell) here or abroad. How will this system be secured? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u446	Thank you, sir. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u447	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have questions for the Minister. During the work on this draft law, there were proposals for a maximum fee, which was to be about PLN 600. You're all out of it. Today this fee is PLN 150 and the accepted maximum fee of PLN 300 is a good solution. With regard to the comments made by Members concerning persons under the age of 18, I, too, add this question. And with regard to the electronicization of passport records, I wanted to ask: How will it unload the queues? Will it be possible to submit electronic applications for a passport and how this electronicisation or submission of applications for a passport is intended to improve, address the problem of queues? And an organizational matter concerning the location of passport offices. Are you predicting (the bell) the establishment of new passport offices? One such place is the city of Mielec, which is applying for a passport office. Are you considering the requests and comments made by your Members regarding cooperation with local authorities in the issue of passports, and at what stage or at what stage do you have on this issue today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u448	Thank you. Please, Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u449	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Governments often say that the office is to be close to the citizen, and this accessibility is also one of the values supporting civil society. Since positive changes have been made, i.e. easier procedures for applying for a passport or simplified fees, I ask and at the same time ask for changes regarding the possibility of receiving passports directly in municipalities and cities such as Kalisz, Ostrów Wielkopolski, Jarocin, Pleszew or others, including smaller towns. Reception at voivodship offices and delegations often involves additional time as well as costs. I think that carrying out this administrative process is really easy and simple and would greatly facilitate and speed up the whole passport issue procedure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u450	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u451	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask about training for employees, because this law changes everything, it is a serious revolution, it repeals the previous law, the new law enters into force. Employees ask us when they will be trained, and the date of entry into force of this law is March, this is a very short period. I am not asking without a goat, given the last document of yours. The new Polish Lad. Polish Load has introduced a huge mess and officials do not know how to read it, I am also talking about IRS officials. So I would like to know what these trainings will look like when they take place, whether they are already taking place and when the workers will be trained. The second question concerns a question raised by the Ombudsman, who asked the Ministry of Interior and Administration to consider a change in passport legislation in order to respect the rights of all citizens, and at the same time said that the passport was an official document and not a certain statement of the worldview. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask, because this document, this letter from the Ombudsman, the previous one, has already been received to you, whether you take into account the visual change in your passport at all. If so, what would she look like? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u452	Thank you very much, sir. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. From now on, I'll be in session. I cordially invite Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u453	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Electronic registration is an important and necessary thing. However, it is even more important - that it be a safe registration. In the context of contemporary events in Poland, we know how important this is. There are various solutions in the world, some of which are based on the local production of local registers for security reasons, for example. in Germany. But I'll give you one example of threats and ask for an answer. Biometric passports and IDs require a fingerprint or fingerprint. I have examples of the fact that in older people these fingerprint lines are sometimes blurred and so blurred that officials turn to, for example. to the person who applied for a passport in this case to repeat the print again, because it is not good. Let's imagine that this is... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done, Marshal, if you don't mind. ...that this is a central registration, where such a fact may escape notice. There are more threats. Therefore, my question concerns security and I would be grateful if the Minister answers, he will guarantee the security of these registers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u454	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Paweł Bosternaker to speak. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u455	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking you for the hard work that has been done in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, the subcommittee on this law. Yesterday at the committee meeting, the bill was adopted unanimously, so thank you very much for the consensus on this work, because it is very important because every Polish citizen has the right to a passport. This is a very important law and, therefore, for the work that the committee has done, and I would like to thank you very warmly for supporting this law. As regards issues raised by you, among others: concerning why there is a provision concerning the concepts of mother and father. Ladies and gentlemen, parents under Polish law can only be persons of the opposite sex. Gentlemen have invoked the law on civil status records. Yes, in the Family and Care Code, as well as in the Law on the Rights of the Civil Status Act, it is clearly stated that the parents of the child are both parents, only a man and a woman, and this law makes it more consistent. It makes the concept of a family more consistent because parents are a mother and a father. If there are such examples as you were talking about, I would like to answer you immediately, confirm what I said yesterday at the committee meeting, that it is your duty to issue a passport to a Polish citizen regardless of the circumstances in which he is raised. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confirm this duty of the state towards the Polish citizen, towards a child who has no influence on what family he is raised in. The practice in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, in voivodship offices and in municipal offices for some time has been such as to allow the issuing of a passport document or identity card to a minor, who, for example. is abroad, is a Polish citizen, and so that this document can be issued to a Polish citizen, because it is the responsibility of the State to issue this document. [[That's not what's happening.]] And this kind of practice... But since when isn't it happening? [[It hasn't happened in years.]] But you're talking about what hasn't been going on in years, and I'm telling you what the law and justice government has put in place for the past few months. [[You just needed an NSA resolution.]] But practice... You say what has been going on for a few years, I answer you that the current practice of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration is that every Polish citizen, no matter what family he is born in, has the opportunity to obtain a document, because that is the duty of the state. [[We have different information.]] I would like to inform you that such practice is currently in the case of identity cards and passports, so I would ask you not to mislead the public. This practice has been for some time, and please ask the authorities which such appropriate writings concerning the practice of issuing have received. [[Only three city offices in Poland issue documents to such children.]] You're referring to data from faraway years. I inform you that the Government of Law and Justice has put in place such solutions that every citizen, regardless of his family, will not be excluded and will receive such passports and personal evidence. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: What will parents' names be entered in the box?]] The name of one biological parent will be entered, and the name of the other parent who raises them will not be entered. If there is a good will, if parents really want to receive such proof, they will be entered in accordance with Polish law the name of the father or the name of the mother. This is the interpretation of the rules and please do not mislead the public. The State relied on the Ombudsman's letter. Please reach the letter explaining to the Ombudsman what practice has been taken in the offices which issue such documents. Indeed, years ago it was different, at the moment it is different, but the record about the mother and father is in accordance with Polish law, in accordance with the only circumstances that is possible as far as parents in the Republic of Poland are concerned. To answer your other questions, which have arisen, i.e. receipt of a document, submission of an application, the issue of fingerprint lines. Ladies and gentlemen, these are provisions that have been in place for years and are based on the security rules for the marketing of documents within the European Union. This is EU law and under this law, in the case of personal evidence, in the case of passport, in the case of identity documents at the time of collection, in the case of application and in the case of issuing the document, the person must appear and, within the framework of the second biometric characteristic of these documents, not only the photograph, but also the fingerprint of the fingerprints shall decide whether or not it is the person entitled to receive the document. These are EU rules that have been introduced into Polish law, hence the question of downloading these biometric data. Ladies and gentlemen! In the discussion there was such an argument that the identity card can be submitted in an electronic version. I would like to point out that this cannot be done for a few months because EU law, which points to the safety of the circulation of documents, the lodging and receipt of an identity card, the identity card, is the same as in the case of a passport. Ladies and gentlemen! You asked if it was possible for the municipalities to collect applications and issue documents. I would like to say that the introduction of this central register under this law is the first step in ensuring that proposals can also be accepted and issued at the level of municipalities in the future. As we know, these are other bodies that issue passports today, but I believe that these regulations are the first step in making applications and issuing passports at local government level in the future. But as I said, this bill is not yet normal, it is the first step in this direction. I'm sure it's a good practice to set up long-distance units in counties so that these passport points are as close to the citizen as possible. We are taking action in this direction. The voivodships are also trying to ensure that the map of passport points covers places where these points are not as close as possible to the citizen under this law which is currently in operation. Ladies and gentlemen! In answer to your next questions, I will explain that the draft does not change the format of the passport. There was also a question about the issue of a temporary passport for the child. This case, which was discussed here by one of the Members, concerns the welfare of the child and the possibility of issuing such a passport so that it is possible to return to the Republic of Poland. However, I would add that in special cases, e.g. in urgent cases, the passport may also be issued ex officio. Without applying for a passport, the Voivode may, in specific cases, also in the case referred to here by one of the Members, make such an application of his own motion. As far as fees for passports for minors are concerned, nothing changes. I mean, it's a solution that's worked for years. Previously, these kinds of arguments, which you put here, did not fall once, so I wanted to confirm that this is a new thread in these questions. Although this is a matter that is not changed, 50% of the fees remain, as in the previous laws. As far as training for officials is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, they are moving on 17 January, which is very soon. Most will be training in the form of webinars, which is also a pandemic effect. We would like to do as much training as possible in the shortest possible time, they are already prepared. As soon as the bill comes out of the Seym to the Senate, it will be implemented. There was also a question by Mr Jan Szopiński, to which I would like to reply in writing on the data related, among others. with the Register of Passport Documents. I don't have that data on me right now, so I'm gonna answer it in writing. As regards security, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of security services were also involved in the work on this project in the Interministerial Steering Committee. As part of the EDP, the Register of Passport Documents, there is a secret component within which there are all kinds of issues related to maintaining the security of that register. I would very much like to thank you for your cooperation with this law and, at the same time, to say that these concerns which you have expressed here in a few questions are not justified. As I said, it is the duty of the state to issue documents and every Polish citizen has the right to obtain a passport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u456	Thank you, Minister. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Jan Szopiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u457	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the document in the form of a draft legislation on passport documents, print No 1833, was relatively large in volume. We were able to work this document in quite a short time. And it was, of course, thanks to the ladies and gentlemen of the House, but first of all, I would like to thank the Legislative Office of the Sejm very warmly, thanks to which it was possible to make a number of amendments to this document, which make it legally consistent today. If you, Minister, would like to accept my heartfelt thanks for your excellent commitment to the committee, I will also address these thanks to you. And if the Minister could give these thanks to a wide group of ladies and directors of the department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration above all, but also to those whom we have met and represented the office of the Prime Minister and the Ministry of National Defence, I would also be very kind to ask you to present such thanks very cordially. Today, a number of doubts are mentioned here, which are still in this document. Since tomorrow will be the next meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I believe that these doubts that have been raised here in this Chamber today will be discussed by us tomorrow, as has been the case so far, that many of the proposals that have been presented by the opposition on the one hand and those who are coalitions today have been included in this document. I think that we will continue to work on this document in such agreement, as is evidenced by, among others. the fact that I am acting here as rapporteur for the committee. Thank you very much for your confidence and for being able to direct my work on a good solution with regard to the document under the name: passport documents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What about the chairman of the committee?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u458	Thank you very much. Mr Szopiński thanked everyone... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...and if he hasn't thanked anyone, thank you on his behalf. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Passenger Name Record Processing Act (Prints 1891 and 1899). I would very much like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to submit a report to the committee. I have such a kind request, sir, but you will do as you wish with this request. We're in a two-and-a-half-hour gap right now. I have a duty as Vice-Marshal of the Sejm to say this also in the interests of those who will sit until today. Three in the morning, because it's going in that direction. So I ask you very kindly and politely: if you think that some of the speeches can be shorter, I ask you very, very much. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u459	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I have the honour to present in a concise manner a report on the Government's draft law amending the Passenger Name Record Processing Act in print No. 1891. Yesterday, the committee was investigating this very short document, a few articles, and I think that the focus of this amendment is elsewhere. It is related to the practical implementation and implementation of the 2016 European Parliament and Council Directive, which is reflected in the law adopted by the Polish Parliament in 2018. As you know, the Act applies to carriers operating passenger flights when the state border is exceeded or when an aircraft takes off or lands in our country. In order to safeguard the requirements of the Directive, the Polish legislator, i.e. parliament, adopted this full regulation in 2018, secured the performance by air carriers of the obligations related to the transfer of passenger flight data to the National Passenger Information Unit by the system of administrative penalties. The competent unit here is the Polish Border Guard. I refer in general to the justification of this project, following the need to repeat the arguments accompanying this important amendment. I think that, in particular, the aviation market is equally interested in it. As a reminder, this law imposed an obligation to implement these data within 6 months of the entry into force of the Act and to provide them by the air carrier to the Border Guard. When, after the entry into force of this law, these obligations were not fulfilled by some carriers, unfortunately, the provisions of that law, which required the Border Guard to charge penalties for failure to provide passenger data, were directly applicable. More than 109 000 have been identified since the entry into force of this law since May 2018. flights for which carriers have failed to comply with the obligation to transmit these data from the side, so as to say, purely administrative. The penalties imposed by the Chief Border Guard officer exceeded the amount of PLN 2197 million, and I would like to remind you that he has already spoken of this at the meeting and it has been repeated by the representative of the Minister of Home Affairs, the Deputy Minister of Administration and Home Affairs, that Member States are required to lay down rules on sanctions against carriers who do not provide such data in accordance with the rules and should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. It is worth noting and I would also like to make it clear as rapporteur to you that there are currently no major problems with the implementation of this obligation on the part of air carriers. From the information, I think, very specific, very detailed, provided by the representative of the Chief Border Guard at yesterday's meeting of the committee, it appears that more than 150 air carriers who carry passengers in the territory of the Republic of Poland provide these data, so that today, you can say, practice is very good. Poland - together with France and the United Kingdom - according to the government's information is in the top three European countries, which have fully implemented in their legal order the one needed to combat crime, in particular terrorism, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. This regulation, I am going through, you can say, on the issues relating to the proposals contained in the draft amendments, concerns the need to introduce in the Passenger Name Record Processing Act rules that would allow the imposition of financial penalties on air carriers during the process and, secondly, to accumulate administrative obligations in such a way that the authority of the Border Guard can carry out these procedures in a more efficient manner. Proposal to repeal this Article. The 70th Act aims primarily at the implementation of the Article. 189g of the Code of Administrative Procedure to the extent that limitation periods are determined on the basis of the provisions which will apply on the day of limitation of the infringement. The aim of the proposed amendments is also to allow for the transfer not only to the Chief Border Guard but also to the competent Head of Border Guard Branch of such a procedure, which, as I mentioned a moment earlier, may make the performance of tasks more flexible and may be important in a situation where infringements would be significant in the short term. Thus, the purpose of the procedure is to include more than one infringement in one case and to issue one decision in respect of a number of infringements. I think that this is primarily about the effective conduct of these actions, which concern a particular air carrier. As rapporteur for the committee, when submitting this report and asking the High Sejm to adopt the law, I would like to stress with satisfaction that yesterday there was a very, I think, detailed, necessary and mostly substantive discussion between, above all, the government party and the representatives of the aviation market. At least several air carriers operating in Poland were represented. Representatives of the International Air Carrier Association were also present. I think that the doubts about the transitional solution contained in the amended legislation have been clarified to a significant extent. I would also like to stress that the government side also in the discussion which concerned the matter related to the content of this law, i.e. the events which were or are related to the imposition of administrative penalties on carriers who, after the entry into force of this regulation in Poland, did not comply with the applicable rules. The Government Party has declared that it would ask the European Commission to take a position on a possible alternative solution that would move towards the most significant reduction of administrative penalties that were imposed in accordance with the law following the entry into the Polish legal system. I think that if there are questions later about whether there will be issues presented by the representatives of the clubs, I will perhaps allow myself to ask for a vote for a moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u460	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Tadeusz Wozniak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak. I thank Mr Jerzy Polachk very much for saving 7 minutes. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I was honored to give the position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to the government's draft law amending the Passenger Name Record Processing Act, Parliamentary Printing No. 1891. The mother law, which entered into force in May 2018, implemented in the Polish legal order the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the use of Passenger Name Record Data and forwarded to the National Passenger Information Unit for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime by air carriers under that law have been required to transmit to the National Passenger Information Unit set up by the Chief Border Guard Commandant all passengers before each flight between 48 and 24 hours. before the scheduled start of the flight and immediately after the completion of the ticket-baggage check-in and the boarding of passengers on the aircraft when they are no longer allowed to leave before the flight takes place and other passengers are not allowed to board. In the first period of application of the Act, more than 100 carriers failed to comply with their obligations. Today Poland is one of the leaders among the Member States of the European Union, both in terms of the number of carriers providing passenger data and the percentage of passengers whose data is transferred to the database. This means that as many as 152 air carriers are connected to the National Information System, which carry 99% passengers in Poland. At the same time, since 29 May 2018, i.e. from the date of entry into force of the mother's law, approximately 110 thousand were initially identified. flights for which air carriers have failed to comply with the obligation to transmit Passenger Name Record data. This means that they have committed the infringements referred to in Article. 64 laws, which are subject to an administrative penalty. As a result, the sum of penalties threatening carriers for the period from 29 May 2018 to 14 December 2021 is already at least PLN 2197 million. There is therefore a legitimate need to urgently introduce solutions that will establish a legal framework allowing for the longer-term imposition of financial penalties on air carriers and will reduce administrative obligations in this respect by cumulative proceedings and introducing the possibility of imposing administrative fines not only by the Chief Border Guard but also by the Head of Border Guard, which will make it more flexible in the Border Guard. The introduction of this option will be particularly important if there are a significant number of infringements in the short term. A number of infringements will be able to accumulate in a single procedure around 20 times the number of cases that will be brought to administrative courts, assuming that one procedure will be subject to an average of 20 flights for which infringements have occurred. Proposal to repeal the article. 70 The aim of the Act is to implement the limitation period resulting from the general principles, i.e. after the entry into force of the proposed Act. the provision of Article. 189g § 1 of the Code of Administrative Procedure, by which it was determined that the limitation periods would be determined on the basis of the provisions which would apply on the day of limitation of the infringement. The proposed amendment will safeguard the proper course of proceedings, especially in the case of particularly complex cases, in particular to allow the financial burden of imposing administrative fines on air carriers to be spread over time. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the solutions contained in the government proposal, which are extremely important for the aviation industry, which is in a very difficult financial situation due to the continuing pandemic of SARS-CoV-2 virus, which has been adopted for this reason throughout the festival. It is worth recalling that the turnout of passengers at airports in Poland due to SARS-CoV-2 decreased by even more than 70% versus years before the pandemic. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice does not amend the draft law annexed to the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in print No 1899 and recommends the adoption of this draft law to the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u462	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Konrad Frysztak from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u463	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the rapporteur's statement, but also in the statements of the member representing the club Law and Justice, it has been repeated that Poland is the leader in the number of carriers connected to the system. This is very commendable, I welcome this fact, but, ladies and gentlemen, it has not happened once that we will be the leader in the matter of looting - looting - carriers. We are dealing with a fact, and this was also acknowledged at the committee meeting by the Minister, that today there is no problem with the transmission of these data, all the data contained in PNR is being transmitted. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, today, this law is being amended so that the limitation period for the Border Guard Commandant does not expire, as the three-year period for issuing sanctions decisions is now passing. In fact, it's nothing more than a bank heist. Airlines will pay PLN 2200 million for what was done. And why was that? There are many reasons for this. Of course, one of them is undoubtedly the fact that the Border Guard itself was not prepared - the industry also says - because as you might say otherwise, if the latest global booking systems - this can be compared to the latest Windows - are to be communicated with some Pegasus, but not with the Pegasus you have today, but with the game from the 1990s. They simply did not cooperate with each other and therefore the airlines could not meet this condition. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the aviation industry informed me that it had made contact with the European Commission. The European Commission is not interested in whether or not penalties are levied. The European Commission is interested in whether the directive has been implemented and whether it is complied with, because the directive itself, ladies and gentlemen, which is worth highlighting, is a provision stating that financial penalties can be one of the examples of penalties. In this case, you have chosen only financial penalties. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing needs to be emphasised: the national carrier, LOT, is to pay PLN 66 million. Yes, LOT was also unable to communicate with the Border Guard, Polish carrier - PLN 66 million - in a situation when we know this from reports, it will again reach for public aid. Will the European Commission agree to this? I doubt it, because it will turn out that international carriers, as well as the European Commission, will find that this money is precisely intended to be used to lend it to LOT. Ladies and gentlemen, this is another element of the cost, the cost introduced by the Government of Law and Justice, because as you might call this leap at PLN 2200 million just after the airport charges were raised not more than a few months ago by 40%. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as our international relations are concerned, after this famous lex TVN, whose author was just in this room, we have another vision of international conflicts, because most airlines are foreign airlines. How will they welcome us to their airports? It's very likely that they'll find a way to rob our national carrier in the same way. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise - the rapporteur has also spoken about this - 110 000. Infringements, 110 thousand. Penalty times 20,000. PLN 2200 million. For comparison, three decisions have been issued throughout the European Union, according to the information I have, and three carriers have been punished. Yes, three decisions: two in Bulgaria and one in Lithuania. Ladies and gentlemen! This bill, this amendment is sloppy. The fact that no one consulted her shows that she was not consulted with the industry was not a proof of this. The justification of this law is the justification of another law, because it is stated in the law that it is an extension of the limitation period, so that the Border Guard can reach out and reach for the 2200 million PLN, and in the justification it is written that it is a fight against terrorism. I'm also in favour of us fighting terrorism, prevention is very important, but why fight it when everyone's sending it? It's nothing more than a bank heist. Ladies and gentlemen! Radom, my family's Radom. I would like to draw attention - I hope that Mr Suski will also share my opinion - to the fact that if airlines are so financially punished, they will not want to land at Polish airports. They won't want to land in Radom, they won't want to land in that CPK you want to build. Why? That's because we're just gonna make them (Bingle) loot. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that this bill is a patching of a hole because you don't have the 14 promised, we already know. The airlines will move to other airports. Then this myth that you were also talking about - that we're going to fly from Berlin... Then it will be, and it will be done by no one but the Government of Law and Justice. Because at the committee meeting last night... Thank you very much. Let me get this straight, Marshal. Because, at yesterday's committee meeting, contrary to what the rapporteur said, the industry did not necessarily agree, I have three amendments for today's committee meeting. I hope that the Minister will approach them with understanding, we will discuss them, and they will allow us to... Thank you very much, sir. ...to get you out of this face-to-face situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u464	Thank you very much. Thank you for the correction. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u465	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are discussing a government bill amending the Passenger Name Record Processing Act. The project should in itself concern the establishment of national legal standards introducing the possibility to impose administrative financial penalties on air carriers over a longer period of time for breach of the obligations relating to the transfer of PNR data. Let me read part of the bill's justification. We read that, at the same time as from 29 May 2018, since the entry into force of the Act, 109 897 flights were initially identified for which air carriers failed to comply with the obligation to transfer PNR data to the JIP. This means that they have committed the infringements referred to in Article. 64 laws which are subject to an administrative penalty of 20 000. zł. As a result, the sum of penalties threatening carriers for the above period is already at least PLN 2197 million. And now some of the facts we heard about during the process of amending this law in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. E.g. We have heard from representatives of air carriers that there has been no industry consultation on the amendment of the Act since 2018. We have been familiar with many doubts, among others. with the opinion of the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises. We have noticed a great haste in the process of the amendment, but we are already used to it. Since May 2021, industry representatives have asked for a meeting with the Minister, but this was not the case. You can also ask yourself: Is LOT supposed to pay 66 million penalties and why? Why has the State Treasury failed to comply more than 300 times with the obligations of the applicable law? Who's taking care of this company in the ministry? What ministry? You can answer that question yourself. It's the last important piece. The airline industry clearly stated that the changes introduced in the Passenger Name Record Processing Act are so-called. A kiss of death to the aviation industry. Ladies and gentlemen! Is this amendment another source for patching the budget hole? It's hard to say, it's probably gonna turn up soon. If these penalties are enforced, the question is whether they will be paid for by passengers who use LOT, or by persons, companies who send their goods as part of cargo shipments. I ask Mr. Shopiński to continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u466	Thank you. I, too, invite Mr Shopiński. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u467	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is difficult to find a link between the justification and the content of the project, as in the explanatory memorandum we read about the difficult situation of carriers and the significant need for State aid for them, while in the text of the project we read about who and how should punish these carriers for failing to comply with very difficult requirements. So the question is this, and we kindly ask the government to answer it in writing: Does the government intend to support transport companies through the accumulation of ongoing proceedings and replace several penalties with the sum of the components? If so, it can only be bloomed in one way, namely: let all of us protect ourselves from such help. I also have a question on the issue of penalties for PLL LOT, more specifically the amount of PLN 66 million. Will LOT have to pay this penalty or will the Treasury pay for LOT? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u468	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Urszula Nowogórska, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u469	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of my club, the Polish Coalition Club - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Marek Biernacki's Conservatives, to give a position on the draft law amending the Passenger Name Record Processing Act, which is included in Seym Print No. 1891. High Izbo! On 27 April 2016, Directive 2016/681 of the European Parliament and of the European Council on the use of passenger flight data entered into force, i.e. transfer of PNR data to prevent, detect, prosecute and prosecute terrorist offences and serious crime. Our Polish legislation has been adapted to this directive through the Act of 9 May 2018 on the Processing of Passenger Name Record Data. Under this law, carriers operating passenger flights in excess of Polish airspace, taking off or landing at our airports, were obliged to transfer PNR data to the National Passenger Information Unit. Failure to comply with this obligation resulted in the imposition of fines on carriers. This was done by the commandant of the Border Guard. Ready to proceed with the preparation of a programme for the transfer of PNR data within a time limit in accordance with Article. 76 Laws reported only 38 carriers. The rest were obliged to transmit data within 14 days of the date of entry into force of the Act I mentioned. There are already 152 carriers in the PNR system - this has been said in this Chamber - which generally meets the needs of around 99% passengers arriving in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Therefore, penalties were imposed for these deficiencies, the sum of which amounted to PLN 2197 million, but they are not administrative penalties, but are the result of an infringement of the Article. Ten bills. Art. The 14th Directive of the European Union states that Member States have been obliged to lay down sanctions, but not necessarily financial ones. The directive states that these sanctions are to be effective, proportionate, dissuasive. According to the information provided by the association of international carriers, penalties proportionate to the period of non-implementation of PLN 4 billion are likely to be imposed, of which 60 have already been imposed... High Izbo! We know very well that these penalties are being imposed in a time of pandemic, and this is the result of failing to comply with these obligations under the Act in the last three years. We know that, in general, this could bring down air carriers who are still in a pretty bad financial situation. It is also worth saying that before the pandemic each cruise generated about 3,000. PLN of profit, while in 2021 each trip generated losses of 17,5 thousand. zł. In 2020, only four regional ports generated profits. This deep crisis has further aggravated the increase in terminal charges by around 40% What came into force a few months ago. Around the airports, High Izbo, economic life is created. Companies and jobs are being created. The collapse of air carriers will result in the withdrawal of their offer from the Polish market, which will significantly reduce passenger traffic, as well as significantly affect the reduction of cargo transport, which could disrupt supply chains. It seems to us that, since other Member States do not impose additional penalties on carriers calculated in billions of zlotys for offences 3 years ago, we should approach the matter differently: we should send a request for interpretation to the European Commission and the European Parliament and aim to refrain from imposing these penalties, or to cancel them or to punish them symbolically, rather than extend the deadline for the next years. I'm talking about the limitation period. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, representatives of the aviation industry informed that they had not been consulted, but at the same time said that they were open to discussions and declared their cooperation with the Minister in this regard. To sum up, in the interests of passenger safety, as well as our country's security, we support, of course, the obligation to provide information, PNR data, but in a time of economic crisis, with the consequences of imposing penalties, we will not support this project. At the same time, we hope that the Ministry, the Minister, will decide on a dialogue with the aviation industry and will find a solution to this problem. Thank you kindly, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u470	And I thank you kindly, too. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Circle of the Polish Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u471	There is no wickedness that the government will not allow if it lacks money. In general, this bill is about how if a carrier, an entrepreneur, is late in carrying out some duties, if something is not done there, in this case neglects spying on passengers, there are penalties. And if you don't do something and you don't have time to enforce it, you write a bill and it's good again. The severe punishments, which go into billions, as we have heard, are committed for purely formal crimes, of zero social harm. It's getting a little Someone's leg slips, and money always comes in handy, doesn't it? And they just came in handy, we did it, the carriers didn't make it, you can take the money out of them. Instead of letting go of these punishments, since the problem has disappeared, since everyone is carrying out this unfortunate, unnecessary duty, you are prolonging the time in which you can smash people for, as I said, something that has no social harm. You could implement financial penalties for late response by your ministers, as you already want to be so strict about failing to meet deadlines and responsibilities. But it's just the tip of the iceberg. If he looks at the mother's bill, that's space. I have only now learned about this bill because we're updating it, and I recommend that everyone take a look at it. First of all, when it comes to the number of targets for which our data can be collected, we're lucky we're in the alphabet, we're in the Z, we're in the Z, we're in the Z, we're in the Z, we're in the Z, we're in the Z, we're in the Z, we're in the Z, we're in the Z. As regards processing, data categories - more than one page A4 with a little muffin. The bill itself has 79 articles, forty-seven pages. Ladies and gentlemen, what is not here? There's no information on the shoe number, and besides, I think it's data on everything. And the competent authorities, 11 services are authorized to dig into our data, including, for example, National Tax Administration. Why wouldn't I? This bill, instead of picking it, instead of expanding it, needs to be deleted. This is a dramatic act from the cycle: welcome to Great Brother's land. This is one of many such laws that we have recently implemented here. Tracking drivers using the application, Central Register of Invoices, COVID passports - all of this greatly expands state surveillance tools towards citizens. Technology allows for an ever increasing informational advantage of power. If we don't put an end to this as soon as possible, we're really gonna wake up in Big Brother's country. The difference between tyranny and the republic is that in the republic we know everything about the state, and in the tyranny you know everything about us. And we ask ourselves, " Where are we?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u472	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u473	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Act on the Processing of Passenger Name Record Data of the Sejm adopted on 9 May 2018 several minutes after hours. 10. Only five people voted against this law in the previous term, with 181 abstentions and 247 in favour. It is in this law, which was then passed, in the article. 64 penalties were imposed on carriers not transmitting passenger flight data to the National Passenger Information Unit. Such data should be provided twice, mainly for reasons of security that are broadly understood. The first time between 48 and 24 hours before the scheduled trip and the second time after completion of the ticket-baggage check-in. For more than one year, for various reasons, including technical reasons, they have indeed failed to comply with this obligation, but there has been no more problems since mid-June 2019. The debts are... Exactly. In the explanatory memorandum we read about more than 2 billion, and at yesterday's meeting of the administrative committee the carriers spoke about 4 billion PLN, but the commander of the Border Guard did not carry out his duties properly. It is he who should impose administrative fines under the law. Importantly, in the article. The 70th Law of 2018 is a limitation period of 3 years. At present, the Sejm majority wants an amendment and demands the introduction of general rules based on the Code of Administrative Procedure, i.e. a 5-year period of statute of limitations. In 2018, the European Directive could not have adopted mandatory penalties, but today, at a difficult time for carriers, also for LOT, it is not necessary to extend the limitation period in the name of slowness, omission, however else to call it, of the authority which should enforce these penalties. On behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050 tabled an amendment in accordance with the presentation of the position of the carriers, i.e. aimed at non-compliance with the regulations of the Polish Parliamentary Circle, to remain at a three-year notice period. The carriers claim, Minister - you heard it yesterday - that if there is no other way to help them, it is the solutions that we present, with pain, but will accept. But let's not punch them in the heart any more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u474	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. I'm setting a time limit for one minute. 19 people volunteered for the question. [[20 people.]] Ladies and gentlemen, 20 people have come forward for the question. The list is closed in a definitive manner. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Listen, do you remember my request? [[I'm gonna make it.]] Until 3 p.m. 3 a.m. will you be sitting with Mrs Kidawa-Błońska at the head? [[I'm quitting.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Sir, I'm sitting in the Seym day and night every day from hours. 8 to 8 a.m. 24, so this is not new to me, but I speak on behalf of Mrs Kidawa-Błońska, who will be running the session today until noon. 3. I'm just asking kindly and cordially. I'm closing the list. Here you are, Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u475	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Airlines are required to report to the Border Guard on passenger personal data. A large number of these changes have not been notified before. However, the penalties for failing to do so are enormous. The number of such flights was estimated at around 110 000. A large number of them have not been cleared for 2.5 years and the failure to comply with the obligation is now nearing limitation. Today, the government wants to extend the period in which it can claim these extraordinary revenues, despite the unfavorable opinion of the aviation environment, especially during the collapse of the pandemic industry. I would like to pay particular attention to regional ports, which not only ensure the country's communication liquidity, but also are destination ports in international traffic, for example. the airport is located in the vicinity of the airport and the airport is located in the vicinity of the airport. Paderewski in Bydgoszcz. Will the airlines not try to transfer these small costs to ports by pressing for a change in the way the accounts are settled? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does a port like Bydgoszcz have a chance to meet the requirements of these carriers and avoid the risk of losing connections? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u476	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u477	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This law is an example of how excessive expansion of the state in the area of citizen surveillance and data collection later creates problems. In the 2018 directive - we talked about this at the committee meeting - there was no obligation to collect, collect data other than data on passengers travelling outside the European Union. Data on passengers travelling within the European Union are data that may be collected optionally. Unfortunately, the government has decided to collect all the data as it flies. Completely unprepared airlines, completely unprepared infrastructure caused... Minister, first question: Is that 2 billion or 4 billion penalties? Because there's a big difference. How many penalties have you actually imposed just because you've administratively increased the amount of data to be sent to airlines? Second question. Minister, how much will the Polish and Polish air tickets cost when you implement this bill through Parliament, which will increase the cost of operating the airlines at this difficult time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u478	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u479	High Seym! The slaughter of a chicken that has endured golden eggs so far - we're talking about the aviation industry - is stupid. But the slaughter of a chicken to bear golden eggs in the Central Communication Port, that's idioticism and sabotage for its own political environment. [[Applause]] Now, here's the question. You decide: do you want to help this industry, or do you want to bring it down? If you want to help her at such a difficult time, you had to go towards the abolition or leave it as it is, let it be a statute of limitations. Incidentally, the question is: What was the Border Guard doing, what was the Chief Border Guard officer doing so far? How many of these punishments did he impose? Why so little? I think it's a brilliant topic for NIK's control to see how this bill was implemented and how the duties were performed. [[Applause]] As a member of the party control committee, the State Control Commission will make sure that this topic appears in the work of the NIK. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: Lenin reminds himself.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u480	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Lasek, I understand that on behalf of the Civic Coalition, no longer of party control. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u481	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The State could have differentiated the penalties for infringements in relation to the transfer of passenger data, but unfortunately did not take advantage of this possibility. No one defended the Polish aviation sector, which is forced to compete unevenly in the transport market. The principle of proportionality and adequacy of penalties in relation to the size of infringements has not been applied, although the EU Directive has allowed this to happen. Cruise carriers, charterers or Aerotaxi were thrown into one bag. The explanatory memorandum refers to the support of the aviation sector, but it seems that it is intended only to support the State in the collection of penalties, and carriers should be grateful that they will be able to pay these penalties not for 3 years and for 5 years. [[Applause]] Therefore, Minister, I have this question: How many administrative proceedings have been completed by a final decision? [[Voice in the O.R.: Zero.]] When was the first administrative procedure for failure to comply with this obligation started? How many pending proceedings have had to be terminated because of the statute of limitations? I'm asking for an answer in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u482	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u483	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the justification of the bill, you write in beautiful words that solutions are intended to strengthen the aviation industry, which is in a difficult financial situation. The truth is, this bill will not only not help, it will contribute to the devastation of this industry. The losses of airlines due to the coronavirus only in Europe alone amount to PLN 260 billion. The government wants to add four billion possible financial penalties to the lines, which translates into about 17%. losses generated on our continent. What's the logic? So I ask you to answer the question: What concrete actions have you done in this regard? What did you do in this direction to help the carriers? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u484	Thank you very much. I have a kind request for Members. It's like we're waving our hands at each other... We know what's going on. Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When reading the justification, the words of complacency to the authorities are cast out of the effectiveness of the rules in force in the face of threatening transporters with gigantic penalties. It's not surprising if their sum goes into billions of zlotys. So I have a question: Who will pay, for example? 66 million PLN penalties for PLL LOT? Will passengers pay it or will the Treasury pay it? To whom do they threaten - and to what extent - such gigantic punishments? To whom have these penalties been surrendered, and to whom will they not be surrendered? Please respond in writing with an appropriate statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u486	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Member of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u487	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are discussing an amendment to the law, which extends the possibility of collecting administrative penalties from 3 years to 5 years. Minister, you spoke at the committee meeting about the fact that it was not the intention of retrieving these penalties. So what is the goal of extending the possibility to 5 years, which is to extend it for another 2 years? Question: "Do you already have any insight, as in the case of the collection of those penalties which have already been imposed by administrative decisions, the cost of passenger flights and cargo may increase in percentage?" Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u488	Thank you. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. Good evening, Peter.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u489	Good evening, Mr. Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This is one example where the state is not acting responsibly. On the one hand, the Border Guard should be handed over - you have introduced the fastest system in Europe, which allows you to inform the Border Guard, the state institution about passenger data, which boasts. Perhaps this law and the rigour of punishment have influenced it. On the other hand, we are a country that spent 110 thousand. potential - you can call it that - decisions, and the industry is facing more than PLN 4 billion in penalties, according to industry information. Only three decisions were issued in other countries in Europe during the same period. The question is: Do we have to punish all airlines, which will result in a reduction in the competitiveness of our country, a reduction in flights, a problem with communication for citizens (the Bell), a reduction in the economic potential of the regions? I mean, it's a baby-sitting bath. Let us introduce amendments that cancel penalties if the directive has been implemented. Let's do it. We're open to such cooperation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u490	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u491	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Art. 64 of the 2018 Act clarifies the amount of penalties for infringements by carriers. However, it is indeed appalling that the number of these infringements is so great. 110,000. It's a really big number. If we multiply it by the penalty of 20,000. PLN per flight, this results in PLN 2.2 billion and can be increased to 40,000 to the maximum. zł, so it can amount to up to 4 billion PLN. Tell me where the reason is that there were 110 grand. infringements of those provisions, i.e. in the number of flights, because there could be even more violations. Whether the fault lies with the carriers, or if there are other reasons to look for it, e.g. when it comes to configuration of the IT system? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why should we stand up in front of Europe like this? Why should we have the highest figures and figures in Europe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u492	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u493	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One of your mistakes - I don't know if the worst ones - is that you don't analyze your decisions. You make decisions, and you can't find out what they're carrying. You don't have to be an alpha and an omega to realize that imposing such penalties on carriers, especially small carriers, will cause these carriers to die in a time of pandemic. What are the big carriers gonna do? I don't know, but I think they can move their hubs from Poland to Germany or the Czech Republic. My question: Did you analyze what will happen to the airports of the western wall, i.e. ports that have been doing well so far, such as Poznań, Gdańsk or Wrocław, when such carriers as Ryanair and Wizz Air leave? What will happen to these airports when you decide, Minister, to transfer our Polish clients to Berlin Airport? How much more will it take to maintain these ports? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u494	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u495	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The current fines for air carriers expire three years later. Suddenly the government realized that the amount of arrears was over PLN 2 billion and perhaps even more. [[Voice from the room: PLN 4 billion.]] What's the government doing? The government does what it can best, i.e. to collect taxes, penalties from entrepreneurs, because this is the simplest and most important thing that the government has done so far. Therefore, we have a draft law which extends the limitation period to 5 years. My question. At the moment, we are unable to assess the extent of the arrears compared to the penalties that have been imposed. Please answer me in writing how much is behind with regard to the amounts of penalties that have been imposed over the last three years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And stop with the overcharging. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u496	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Obaz, Members' Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u497	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With this bill it's a bit like in the folk proverb: the blacksmith's guilty, the gypsy's hanged. Only the chief of the Border Guard is guilty here, and his work is supervised by Minister Kaminski, who seems to be dealing with Pegasus rather than what he should be doing. Never in life should there be such a situation that penalties accumulate and the responsible person does not send payment requests, does not ask for payment, does not verify whether individual reports have been received. Ladies and gentlemen! During the COVID-19 pandemic planes did not fly, Polish and Poles did not use airline services. We fired all the entrepreneurs mostly just to give them a break. The airlines said that they were bankrupt, that there was actually very little aid. Why is it today (the bell) that makes their budgets even more burdensome? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u498	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul, Member of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u499	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Draft Act amending the Act on Passenger Name Record Processing. Safety above all, Minister, is obvious, but during yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, at which we were together, the representatives of air carriers operating in our country pointed out that consultations with the Ministry were insufficient and asked for meetings with you. I believe that such meetings should be made on a regular basis so that the regulations introduced do not increase operating costs, which will directly increase ticket prices. This can't be another heist for Poles and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u500	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, Member of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u501	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This is a rather curiosity situation, because it is imposed by law and by the European Union by the so-called directive. our safety. I'm talking about the so-called surveillance that we're gonna pay for, of course, at the price of a ticket or something. And suddenly it turns out that there were no reports sent, so we paid for it so-called. Security, but no reports were sent, which means there was no safety. It's an interesting phenomenon. But the other thing came to me in this debate. I'm addressing the government. It is likely that the government is afraid that if it had cut off the money from these carriers, the opposition would have jumped on the government, that it was acting against the state, to the detriment of the economy, etc. Mostly that's the way it is in these relationships. Today when there's consensus, everyone asks the government to cut it off, so why don't you just kill it. You won't have any trouble here.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u502	Thank you. It's a piece of advice. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u503	Mr. Marshal! Minister! There would be a lot of questions, for example, to the Minister of Infrastructure, why there was no representative of LOT at the committee meeting, who would pay PLN 66 million. I have a question for the Minister: Have you analysed how many penalties are imposed in other countries and whether penalties are imposed at all? Because, as I said during the club appearance, today we know that it is only three penalties on a European scale. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me repeat: for this we, Poles and Poles, who use the airline, use the connections. If it is true that this 4 billion PLN, as the industry estimates, will be transferred to passengers, then the price of each ticket will increase on average by over 100, 150 PLN. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u504	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u505	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The explanatory memorandum, ladies and gentlemen, does not indicate any analyses relating to the risks associated with the operation of passenger services carried out by carriers operating under Polish supervision. So I ask: What will be the consequences of the introduced draconian right to extend the limitation of claims? Did any of you analyze? the impact of the financial drain of the aviation sector on these penalties? What effect will it have, please come out here and say, Minister, what this will have on the financial condition and the level of the value of these companies, their shares in the market. And what will happen - this is also my question - with carriers who offer air taxi services? Is the Polish state trying to infiltrate the crisis caused by the pandemic... Come out and tell us if you're trying to get a nail into this business. I have one more question: Where are the shields? Because that's how I imagine there should be cover-ups at this point to help these Polish companies. And is this really the time for such a tightening of the law? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to know when the Polish state will begin to enforce not only administrative penalties, what you want to do here, but when it will really start supporting Polish entrepreneurs in such a difficult and dramatic situation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u506	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Joński, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u507	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister: Why do you slaughter another branch of the economy? Why are you killing the aviation industry? If no penalties were imposed in 20 countries at all, Romania imposed two, in Lithuania only once, one penalty, then why do you slaughter another branch of the economy? It is not enough that you impose these giant penalties, but a few weeks ago, with such a huge crisis as it is, you raised airport charges by 60%. This needs to be switched over, so that during the pandemic period, with a 60% decrease in passenger numbers, we can even raise airport charges. If not the Polish Ład, then with new taxes, you slaughter another branch with punishment. I appeal to you to simply withdraw from it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u508	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u509	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, we have a time of crisis. Today, imposing any additional penalties on entrepreneurs is really not responsible. Besides, these penalties are inadequate. Today, the aviation industry in Poland, but also worldwide, is struggling with great problems. The imposition of such penalties on it today can lead to an even more difficult situation, especially since this also applies to our carrier, LOT, who would have to pay over PLN 66 million for this. I have one question: How did it happen that there are so many arrears in Poland, and in other countries of the European Union there are not? How is it today... What are the solutions in other countries that we could implement in our system so that we do not have such problems? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u510	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u511	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Airlines are under an obligation, you can say, to monitor passengers in terms of security in the context of the fight against terrorism. For various reasons, the carriers did not do this. But what did the government do? He imposed an obligation to pay the penalties. And just as in other countries it is a system of instruction, so in Poland there is a system of financial penalties, which grew to a horrendous amount of PLN 4 billion, of which in the case of LOT - 66. I ask: How will this affect ticket prices? How will this affect the condition of companies? How will this affect small airports such as Lublin Airport? Because as it was said, airport charges have increased, now there will be penalties, the number of passengers is falling, and you are imposing further penalties. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u512	Thank you very much. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Bartosz Grodecki. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u513	Good morning, Mr. Marshal. Good evening, actually. Honourable ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As for the part of the questions that have been asked, we are obliged to reply in writing. On the other hand, maybe I will try to tell the whole story of this revision of the entire law and the directive and thus answer the numerous questions that have been raised here from the speaker. The first thing is this. First of all, the law itself is not an initiative of the government, but a consequence of the implementation of the EU directive in the Polish order. As far as this EU directive is concerned, actually all the provisions in this law are the implementation of the directive, transposition, the literal transfer of the directive to the Polish legal order. The EU Directive is from 2016. The law itself is from 2018, i.e. we have completed a 2-year period in relation to the mandatory implementation of the directive. In 2018, when this law was adopted, and at the time of work on the implementation of the directive, public consultations were held, inter alia. with carriers. And here was one of the questions why there was no public consultation. There was, of course, this consultation - in 2018. [[Four years ago.]] Four years ago, while... But, sir, yesterday, we talked about this two hours ago. 15 minutes, three times I've talked about it, and for the third time in this room, you're saying the same thing. There's been a consultation, and this bill doesn't change anything about sanctioning. It doesn't. It extends time, and I'll get right to it, if you'll let me. Are you gonna let me or not? Mr President, I have a heartfelt request for you. If you want to ask me one more question, ask me one more question. The minister's gonna finish up and you're gonna do it, okay? Such a kind request. You're welcome, Minister. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Interior and Administration Bartosz Grodecki: Thank you very much. So I'm continuing with the discussion. [[You mustn't lie from the platform.]] Mr President, once again, kindly and politely, please don't interrupt. You weren't interrupted either. It's a request. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Interior and Administration Bartosz Grodecki: Exactly, the Member had the opportunity that no one interrupted him, and for me a second time. All right, come on, let's go. You're welcome, Minister. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Interior and Administration Bartosz Grodecki: 79 carriers were invited for consultations, 29 carriers benefited from the invitation of the Border Guard to consult this project and this is the answer to the public consultation question. As far as penalties are concerned, 110 grand. Flights... In fact, during this period, some airlines did not connect to the system. And no, sir, it was not a connection, as you pointed out, between Windows and Pegasus, only the technical specifications were included in the BIP and the airlines could connect. As you said yesterday at the Border Guard, some carriers managed to do so, so it was not a big problem for those who wanted to. For $110,000. Any flight may result in a double violation, which is the list we send at the time when the tickets were sold, and at the time of check-in. So the maximum cost of penalties is actually over PLN 4 billion today. Why didn't the Chief Border Guard impose those penalties? That's because the chief's intention wasn't to punish the airline. For three years we have been waiting for the European Commission's position - and this is a very important element of this whole amendment - can we at a time when we have a hard record of the article. 14 on sanctions, which says: the penalties provided for are to be effective, proportionate and dissuasive... And that's what they were, because this is where we dropped out of the podium, that's 99%. Those carriers are connected. Now that it's plugged in, that means the sanction worked, it was effective. On the other hand, at a time when some of these carriers did not connect to the system and did not comply with their statutory obligation on time - it is also worth noting - that within 14 days, so constituted the law, they could submit a simple application to the Border Guard Commandant in order to postpone the possibility of payment of these penalties for six months... As the director said, and I refer to his words from yesterday's committee meeting, the connection to the system could be consummated within two months. Why couldn't we have introduced instruction? It is not a sanction to be instructed in the light of the law. We had to refer to administrative penalties, which are defined in the Code of Administrative Procedure. What were our options? Because an order for the institution to cease taking certain measures, the withdrawal of a concession, the prohibition of acting as a manager is, of course, not an option, or a financial penalty. Whether this monetary penalty is high in the EU context, 20,000. the euro per list, for example in the context of penalties imposed or provided for by the legislation of our partners in the European Union? Germany - 50,000, just like Luxembourg, Ireland - 250,000, Czech Republic - 20,000, only in euro. Or 20,000. in this context, is it really an insufficient penalty or too high? That's another thing. The next thing is why Member States are not yet punishing airlines. This is a matter of how quickly the Member States and how they implement the Directive. It is worth mentioning and perhaps the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The European Union could recall how many Member States have failed to implement, partially or incorrectly implemented EU directives. Finally, I refer to two questions, advice or proposals by Mr Dyduch and Mr Boris: it would be possible to cancel these penalties, yes, if the European Commission had taken any position - I also spoke about this three times yesterday at the committee meeting. It's about any position, whether it's a circular, or it's a recommendation that at this level, when we have the PNR law in place, we have connected carriers at this level, or more than 99%. carriers are connected whether those penalties which have been imposed in the past could be cancelled and this will not be considered an infringement of the Directive. If we were to receive such a position, of course, we could go back to such a project and get back to such an idea. We don't have a position like that today. If we receive this position, and I hope we will, we are indeed able to return to this conclusion at this moment. However, for today, if we do not implement this law, we will not extend this term, then the chief will have to issue these decisions and he will impose these penalties, because he will have no other choice, because by not imposing these penalties he will be exposed to the legal consequences of the Penal Code. That's why it's our proposal. She can, of course, be regarded - and I understand it perfectly - as an unsolved problem. But, as I say, the problem is that this is a good thing because of the implementation of the directive, and it is a directive which requires Member States to build such databases in connection with terrorist threats, which I will tell you more, and the Border Guard can confirm to you. It is precisely because we were able to build this base so quickly that, in fact, Polish officers managed to prevent a number of criminal acts and thus we are in the forefront of this type of implementation. I hope I answered all the questions. There were 19 of them. I'll answer some of them in writing. Of course, those to which I have not responded fully will be addressed in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u514	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jerzy Polak, the rapporteur of the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u515	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As rapporteur, I would also like to add a few more useful information, for my part, especially to those of you who were not at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs yesterday, which has examined this amendment or are not members of this committee. Such a remark at the outset that, unfortunately, some of the questions that were asked here to the representatives of the government were, unfortunately, unsubstantiated or frivolous, sometimes quite grotesque, I say it with regret. First of all, this lack of seriousness was, I think, mainly due to the lack of knowledge about the purpose of this amendment. Here, too, I would like to stress that we are aware of this - said this yesterday and today Minister Bartosz Cichocki during his speech - that it is a transitional regulation, that it is, I think, a common expectation for the position of the European Commission to obtain formal bases that would enable the Chief Border Guard officer to reduce the administrative penalties imposed very radically or to solve, to put it simply, abolition. Some of the ladies and gentlemen here have used the issue of European practice in the application of this European directive in their national solutions in a rather free way, saying that they are also possible here, according to the opinion cited, instead of applying the penalty of instruction. I ask that one of the ladies or some of the Members who have asked these questions try to advise the Chief Border Guard, as it has 110 000. to instruct airline representatives separately that they do not provide Passenger Name Record data in a situation where this regulation, both national and, above all, European, is aimed at combating extremely, say, specific crime, in particular related to combating terrorism. I do not want to develop a fictional scenario here, of course, or what would have happened if there had been some tragic incident related to a terrorist act on a Polish aircraft or at least an aircraft operating from Poland, and the carrier would not have provided such data in appropriate mode. I would also like to mention that here representatives of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, as well as myself, we declare that if there were such an opportunity to take a quick parliamentary initiative, perhaps even a committee initiative, in a situation where this next speech of a government representative to the European Commission and the response obtained would simply allow for the application of such a solution, which would be the most, one can say, convenient also for industry representatives, especially as of course we are aware of this very, as I would say, a differentiated and more difficult situation for all air carriers operating not only in Europe... We can, by the way, refer to the last two years and try to ask ourselves how we could imagine imposing these penalties at least after March 2020, the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, which, as I say, dramatically reduced air traffic not only over Europe. I would like to remind you that in Warsaw alone, when it comes to reducing the number of air operations per day, often more than 90, the decrease was 97%. , ninety-seven percent of the current air traffic. This, of course, also has a direct impact on financial condition. I'd like to remind you of that from the Seymour's grandstand. This includes, for example, an institution which is also responsible for the safety of air operations, such as the Polish Air Navigation Agency, where revenue from transit charges or the landing charges have dropped dramatically. Also this institution - some of you are certainly more focused on this - has been in a very dramatic financial situation and has provided temporary credit, I believe, with assistance within the framework of the crisis shield, those solutions that have also been adopted by Parliament. So, to sum up, as a rapporteur and an in-depth recipient of information, opinions, of course also very substantive, from the competent representatives of the airlines present yesterday, IATA representatives, industry-related representatives, I believe that this regulation, which today the Sejm is dealing with incidentally, transitional regulation... Her goals are counterproductive to the many charges that have been brought here, connected with such an easy statement that someone is trying to rip someone off. If that were the case, the situation of the aviation industry after imposing these penalties on carriers who have not implemented, I would remind you, to my business practice, of the obligations arising from the laws adopted in this House, would be dramatic. To sum up, I am optimistic about the position that the Polish government will receive - I think that not only the Polish government, but also many of our partners, countries of the European Union - and that this will allow not only in Poland but also in other countries to apply very significant reductions or abolition solutions resulting from the fact that these provisions of the European Directive have been implemented and are applied in almost 100%. I would like to stress once again that this technical model, which has been prepared, implemented by the Border Guard in cooperation with carriers operating from the territory of the Republic of Poland, is functioning correctly and for this reason there are no major problems, tensions or penalties which would be imposed massively by the Border Guard representatives. Please accept this additional statement as an additional, complementary comment showing the background to this small amendment of the Act, which also protects our safety as passengers using air carriers in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u516	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on payments under direct support schemes and the Act on the national system of producer records, the records of agricultural holdings and the records of payment applications (prints Nos 1896 and 1900). I would like to ask Mr Maciej Górski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u517	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on payments under direct support schemes and the Act on the national system of producer records, farm records and records of applications for payment from printing no. 1896. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, on 5 January 2022, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for first reading. Yesterday, January 11th, the committee carried out the first reading and considered the above project. The proposed draft law introduces as part of a temporary national support supplementing the basic payment, so-called. UPP, as an additional component of direct payments. The bill is very short, contains four articles. The first two amend the laws mentioned in the title, the third article retains the implementing rules, while the fourth refers to the entry into force of the law. This is 15 March, the day of launching the selection of proposals under the new 2022 campaign, so farmers will be able to benefit from these payments already this year. In the explanatory memorandum, the applicant pointed out that this payment would cover more than 1 million farmers and more than 9 million hectares, i.e. a very significant percentage of Polish farmers. For this reason, the bill in question did not raise controversy and the first reading took place smoothly, in common agreement. The Members did not comment, only the Legislative Office clarified some of the amended provisions. The amendment also introduced a 36-month period for transitional provisions. In view of the above, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development proposes that the High Sejm adopt the draft submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u518	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mrs Teresa Pamula from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u519	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I took part in the honour of presenting on behalf of the club Law and Justice a position regarding the government draft law amending the Act of 5 February 2015 on payments under direct support schemes and the Act on the national system of producer records, farm records and records of payment applications. The draft law provides for amendments to these laws. The essence of the arrangements provided for in Article. 1 the draft law on payments under direct support schemes is to extend to 2022 the catalogue of available support instruments under the direct support scheme to complement the basic payment granted under the transitional national support. It should be stressed that this is support from the state budget. The granting of payments is also planned after 2022, but this will be regulated in the new rules that are being prepared for the implementation of the reform of the common agricultural policy for the period 2023 to 2027. As in 2013. - because this payment was already paid to farmers in 2013 under the previous perspective - the complementary basic payment will be allocated to the most important arable crops, including in particular cereals, oil crops, protein crops, and land lost. The detailed conditions for granting this payment, including the types of plants covered by the payment, will be laid down in a Regulation issued pursuant to Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 of the amended act. On the other hand, the payment rate will be set in a regulation issued on the basis of the statutory authorisation added in Article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a. Restoration of the complementary basic payment due to its wide range - over one million farmers and almost nine million hectares - will increase the average level of support for the vast majority of farmers. This is a very important, important change, which will increase farmers' incomes. It will also reduce the gap between average direct support in Poland and the European Union. It is precisely this problem that there are significant differences between average income from farm work and average wages in the national economy. The entry into force of the amended law will somehow increase this revenue. Thus, according to the figures published by the CSO in 2020, e.g. The increase in average income from the family farm in 2020 per full-time person was almost 17% higher than the average income of the previous year, but this income is still less than the average income in the national economy. In 2020 it was almost 13% smaller. As already mentioned here, the deadline for receiving applications will be aligned with the deadline for receiving applications for all payments under the 2020 campaign, i.e. the period from 15 March to 15 May, of course taking into account an extension of 25 days, but this period of 25 days is already linked to the sanctions set out in the Act. The proposed date of entry into force is without prejudice to the principles of a democratic rule of law. The consultation on this law lasted from 19 November 2021 until 30 November 2021. For the implementation of the complementary basic payment in the 2022 campaign, 400 million PLN is planned, except that half of this amount, i.e. 200 million PLN, will be paid by the end of 2022 in the form of advances and in the form of payments from 1 December and the remaining part, 200 million PLN, in the framework of direct payments by the end of June 2023. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The entry into force of the Act will improve the income situation of agricultural holdings. The law is compatible with European Union law. The Law and Justice Club calls for the adoption by the High House of the Act submitted by the Government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u520	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u521	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I present an evaluation of the government's draft law on amending the Act on payments under direct support schemes and the Act on the national system of producer records, farm records and records of payment applications, Parliamentary printing No. 1896. In short, it's called the so-called. supplementary payments known to farmers in the past. Why this project? Probably not everyone remembers, but it was during the convention in Przydrye on 9 October 2021 devoted to the party program of Poland that the Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki declared, quote: we will do everything to ensure that in the next 2 years the level of aid for farmers up to 1 ha, 96 all farmers were the same or higher than the EU average. This promise in caricature form is now materializing. Today we are analysing the bill on supplementary subsidies, which are to cover 1100 thousand. family farms operating at 9 million ha. For this purpose, the Law and Justice Government intends to allocate PLN 400 million over the next two years. 200 million PLN in 2022 and another 200 million PLN in the next year, 2023. This means that in this year, and then in 2023 each of these farms will receive on average - and here attention - about 180 PLN or as who prefers 22 PLN to 1 ha. Ladies and gentlemen, for this amount, the farmer will also be able to buy several loaves of bread. Why are supplementary payments foreseen only until next year, i.e. until the next parliamentary elections come? We believe that the additional subsidies in this form and in this amount are nothing more than a sausage. From this point on, we pay attention to farmers. In the middle of his second term of office, the government of Law and Justice noted that the profitability of agricultural production was falling in the countryside. More than one million farms will receive 22 PLN per hectare, when the price of fertilisers has increased by 300.500% on a yearly basis. The price ratio of wheat to mineral fertilisers has been lowest since 2008, i.e. the cost-effectiveness of production is very low. I would like to make it clear that in 2008 this ratio was 1 to 1.5 and in 2021 it was 1 to 3.5. These relations between the price of wheat and the price of mineral fertilisers are among others. one of the reasons for the decline and profitability of agricultural production. Another point worth paying attention to is that the pig population in Poland has fallen to less than 10 million pieces, i.e. to the lowest level in 70 years. In such a dramatic situation, the Government of Law and Justice proposes to family farms, salt of this land, its most faithful voters, 22 PLN to 1 ha. Nevertheless, my club will support this bill. On the other hand, we are appealing to farmers to carefully analyse this situation, because this money will be received. On the other hand, it is a shame that the government treats its constituents that way. Let me remind you that more than sixty percent of the voters (the bell) from the village, farmers, voted for the Government of Law and Justice. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u522	Thank you very much. Mr Romuald Aichler, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u523	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the Left's position on the act in print 1896 and the report of the committee in print No 1900 on the amendment of the Act on direct support schemes and the Act on the national system of producer records, the records of agricultural holdings and the records of payment applications. High Izbo! The Left supports the bill because we support all the laws that carry any funds for the country, and specifically for Polish agriculture. Today, the economic situation in agriculture is very difficult. The country's cost is for everyone who has to deal with the village, known, and so far all the projects that carried the money behind them have been supported by the Left. High Izbo! It is unreconcilable that we are still talking about shields, about financial assistance, and at the same time we are forgetting agriculture. I would ask the Minister of Agriculture to try to develop, not necessarily the name is adequate, a shield that would help agriculture to get out of the situation that it is in today. I think about the agricultural products, the fertilisers in question, the plant protection products, and also about other measures that help to run the farm - all this makes farmers forget the situation that is at present. All we are talking about is that today's agricultural situation reduces our competitiveness. We still have a moment, because by spring we are not far from helping Polish agriculture. Announcing payments of 1 000. zł to 1 t nitrogen does not settle the matter. It would be worthwhile if you were to, I am addressing the Minister of Agriculture, to develop some general aid for farmers, to think about other things that we are not talking about. We are not talking about plant protection products, we are not talking about components from which feed is produced, and this directly affects profitability in agriculture. High Izbo! It cannot be as it has been so far, that we are interested in the village when elections are coming or when we have some concrete political project to take care of. These announcements, which are reported, are just announcements. We would like to present to them, and saying, to them I think of farmers, the real possibilities of state aid. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is that there are 1,100 thousand covered by the bill. Farms, and in Poland, Minister, if I remember correctly, there are almost 1.5 million farms. What happens to the others that haven't been covered? What are the reasons why agriculture is selective? Anyway, in a series of questions, I'm gonna go back to that topic. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For now, because the bill is short, it contains only four articles or four, the Left supports this bill and so we will act in the vote on the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u524	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u525	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives on the draft law amending the Act on payments under direct support schemes and the Act on the national system of producer records, farm records and records of payment applications. In 2022, the draft law extends the catalogue of available support instruments under the direct support scheme to complement the basic payment granted under the transitional national support. The complementary basic payment will be granted to the most important arable crops grown on agricultural land, in particular cereals, oil crops, protein crops, as well as land lost. Detailed conditions for granting and the amount of the payment rate will be laid down in the Regulation. Nearly PLN 400 million is planned for payment in the 2022 campaign. The support is expected to be up to 9 million ha and will receive 1170 thousand. farmers who received such aid in 2013. Due to the wide range of payments, it will increase the average level of support for the vast majority of national producers. Restoring this payment will reduce the difference between average income from farm work and average wages in the national economy and reduce the difference between average direct support in Poland and average support in the European Union. Importantly, these payments may also be granted in subsequent years, but in order to allow such support legally, it is necessary to implement the rules of the common agricultural policy for the period 20232027. It will then be possible to maintain the supplementary basic payment and to increase the appropriations for the redistributive payment, which will be extended to holdings up to 50 hectares. Ladies and gentlemen! According to estimates by the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, the amount allocated to farmers will be around PLN 40 per hectare throughout the year. The money will be given to all farmers who own at least 1 ha of land. The first payments will be received from 17 October when the advance payment of direct payments starts. As regards transitional national support, such a support scheme has already been applied by other countries in the European Union. It was used by Bulgaria, which allocated EUR 70 million for this purpose, Czech Republic - EUR 23 million, Estonia - EUR 15 million, Hungary - EUR 56 million, Slovakia - EUR 4 million, Romania - surprisingly allocated EUR 240 million in Romania. This support, supposedly crucial, is essential for the Polish village. Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of this draft law, we need a rapid legislative path, as the proposed solution is to apply from 15 March 2022, the date on which the campaign for direct payments begins. The draft law was consulted with 29 organisations, three of which expressed their opinions. The National Council of Agricultural Chambers strongly stated at the committee meeting that it was too small a allocation for Polish farmers. 40 zł to 1 ha are none... [[For two years.]] Please? [[For two years.]] But in total it covers six months of this year and the period until 30 June next year. This is an extra charge of 1 ha. I have to say, 400 million against the Romanians who gave... Romania is 1/3 smaller than Poland, and it gave 240 million EUR, over 1 billion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, Polish People's Party despite small amounts of money will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u526	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, Circle of the Polish Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u527	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Without agricultural support, we will be doomed to import more expensive or often less healthy food from abroad. That's a fact, and that's something to be reminded of. We must realise that supporting the Polish countryside and agriculture is not in the interest of farmers only, but of all of us, because we are the beneficiaries of what the Polish hosts will work out. Therefore, the Confederation is always trying to stand on the side of the Polish village and we will vote in favour of extending support instruments as part of direct support, supplementing the basic payment. Although we know it's symbolic support. Symbolic compared to what problems Polish farmers have today, what issues they must deal with. We also call for help for all of them, especially for those who have been affected by the bird flu who have been affected by the ASF. Because these farmers need to get back to the market quickly. And here's the problem. Their farms are being wiped out massively, and then there's a problem that they'll be able to get back to compensation at least quickly. Support is needed especially because of the rising prices of fertilisers and, unfortunately, still a failure of the government to fight this problem. I've been interlocuting this case myself, and I've basically heard that it's not entirely known that it's not entirely the government's fault. Let me remind you that expensive fertilisers also mean expensive food, and in recent price increases also gas. The cheap food will probably be gone soon. And that's what should be a priority. Not only are these subsidies, because they are still symbolic, but they are the management of the fertilising problem. The National Council of Agricultural Chambers proposed 1 000. PLN as a surcharge to the tonne. This may be a solution, but let us bear in mind that the lowest possible fees imposed on fertilisers or gas will help farmers much more. We must also remember the European Union, which unfortunately does not help us with agriculture. For example, if these sick ideas are in the European Green Deal, they will influence the effectiveness of how Polish agriculture looks like, what European agriculture looks like at all. It'll just hit the Polish village. The prices of products will increase even more, we will dream of those we have today. And if we don't help farmers, my dear ministry, in the future we'll be able to buy food if we can afford it. Because it is the price of fertilizer or often the ideas of eco-shocks that are not things that we can accept, and that we must fight against, that is what I encourage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u528	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Joanna Mucha, the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u529	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to address my predecessor that it is highly inappropriate to use an invective against anyone in the Seym Chamber. You said you were gonna get married, so I think you're really gonna... [[I didn't.]] ...it shouldn't have come from this place. I briefly, ladies and gentlemen, about this bill. We will, of course, vote for her, but, Minister, I would very much like to come to the Parliamentary Speaker one day and just say from the heart that it is a good bill that we approve that we sign under it with our hands and legs. But how do you sign with your hands and legs under a law that gives you 22 zlotys a month? This is a misunderstanding. We'll vote for her, of course, but on the basis that it's better than nothing. Besides, I think I'm gonna be a great courthouse for a lot of people if I say we don't have a lot of trust in you guys when it comes to your intentions. [[Voice from the room: Mutually.]] It's not about helping people, and I'm pretty sure some new Dwórczyk's mail will come out in time, and it'll say, "Mr. Minister, this is where the drama happens." Our electorate, farmers, inflation, you have to do something, you have to give them something, you have to do some good propaganda around it. Okay, so how much do you need? We need 600. You'll get 400. Sooner or later, I suppose, we will discover another email that will be formulated in this context. In the country, economic production, agricultural production today is simply drama. With these fertilizer prices, this expensive gas prices, this 22 zloty is something that doesn't really do anything. Nothing at all. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister to give me such a simple opinion to Prime Minister Morawiecki that even today this bowl of rice is more expensive. And it'll be even more expensive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u530	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. I'm setting a limit to the question-- 1 minute. 16 Members and Members have been enrolled in the questions. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, I cordially invite you, Poland 2050. I'm also closing the list of people who sign up. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u531	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! We have another bill that will work very symbolically in favour of farmers. It will work in favour, but unfortunately it is another of a series of projects which are just like this, Minister, symbolic. And there's nothing to do with it that's on the balance that's gonna make the farmers' situation better somehow. Your actions, the actions of the Law and Justice Government result in a dramatic increase in the costs of agricultural production. Farmers today are wondering if it's gonna get the hell out of the way, 'cause with this kind of politics, you just can't. You just can't. I have a question, Minister. First of all, when will you finally examine how they affect farmers as part of the proposed changes? Secondly, when will you finally come to the Sejm with laws that will significantly improve the situation in agricultural production? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u532	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, Member of the Left. Thank you. Mr Rafał Adamczyk from the Left Messenger's Club. [[Voice in the room: In the committee.]] I think it's on the committee. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski. Commission. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u533	Minister! Did you want to piss off the farmers with this project? If so, you did it. On TV every year you give 2 billion PLN. You gave the farmers 200 million zlotys, 20 zlotys per hectare. You pissed them off. Prime Minister's office... in 2015 there were 200 million, now there are 800 million. That's 600 million more, three times more than for farmers. You pissed off the farmers. Now let me tell you this: Do you know how much a ton of fertilizer costs right now? About 5,000 on average. zł. The farmer, instead of 500 zlotys, must now pay 1500 zlotys per hectare. You give them 20 zlotys. If you're saying today that you're gonna release them from VAT, tell them how much fertilizer will cost after this change. That's laughter. through tears. The farmer really won't know what he's spending 20 zlotys on. I know what 20 zlotys seem like. The farmer will think the same thing. You really pissed off the farmers. 200 million is not enough. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u534	Thank you, Member. Here you are, Mrs Anna Wojciechowska, the Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u535	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I support what my friend said. Such a small amount is funny. I don't know what you're hoping for. You're hoping that until the farmers realize how small this money is, of course, it will be another very popular decision of yours. We gave the money to the farmers. What kind of money it is, it'll only be later. Will the introduction of supplementary payments reduce income differences between rural households and urban households? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, People in town get apartment accessories, trash accessories, now energy supplements. They practically get accessory to everything. As usual, the village is forgotten. What is the situation today? How will this difference decrease when aid is introduced? This is the difference between rural farms and urban households. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u536	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u537	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like an explanation for the following. The draft law on which we are proceeding today does not specify the size of the holding that will receive supplementary payments. On the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, it is stated that the Council of Ministers has adopted a project in which it is said that farms of between 3 ha and 30 ha are to receive these payments. Yesterday at the committee meeting, you mentioned that the payments would be made to farms with an area of 1 ha. I'd like this information chaos to be contained somehow so that it can be unified. I would ask for information on the area from which the supplementary payments will be charged. Is it a farm with an area of 1 ha to 30 ha or a farm with an area of 3 ha to 30 ha? Which numbers are real? Which holdings will be covered by the payment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u538	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u539	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to the impact assessment, Hungary had similar payments in 2019. Sorry, someone's on the phone. Their value was over €56 million. In Bulgaria it was over EUR 71 million. Our government offers farmers PLN 400 million for 2 years, about EUR 44 million per year. Why so little? Needs are far greater. Farmers expect more aid, for example, in connection with the soaring prices of fertilisers, plant protection products, inflation and high costs. Prime Minister Morawiecki stated that the supplementary payments would be above the EU average. So I ask, what payments do we compare them to, French, German, or Italian? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u540	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u541	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I assume this project is about to be used in the election. Some election slogan of Law and Justice will become some special, exceptional aid to farmers. There is even a very loud slogan in the project to compensate for differences in average income in the national economy. I've done the math. We have 200 million zlotys a year and 1100 thousand. entities. This is, of course, 181 zł per year, or 15 zł monthly for one holding. That's how it goes out a month. These are less than two loaves of bread, as if to count it. I have another question. I was trying to find that information. On what basis did some of the operators, some of the farmers, get fired, so ugly I'm going to say, out of this super loud help? By what categories will you sort and divide farmers? That's as far as I can find out. There's also a question that my colleague just asked. Farms with an area from how many to how many hectares will receive this aid? Why these? Does this apply to holdings with an area of 1 ha or from 3 ha to 30 ha or to 50 ha? This is chaos. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have to look all day to find out who this help is for, these two loaves of bread a month. [[A year.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u542	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u543	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I've been wondering how to determine what you're proposing. I think the best words are shame and shame. Because if that is your perception of agriculture and respect for agriculture, I would ask, first, where is the family farm, which is the basis of our system, which is 300 hectares? Where are the other farmers? Aren't these guys farmers anymore? Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you have only thought of a group that you may be able to count on, but I will tell you that you will not be able to count on. Today, Poland and Polish agriculture face a very big threat, which is called food security. I say this in the context of whether farmers will buy nitrogen fertilisers in a few weeks and send them to Polish fields to collect the right crop for which it is not known if someone will pay them. Minister! Farmers in Poland are the same, not only such (the bell) who are worth this help, but also pay charity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u544	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u545	Mr. Marshal! I have a question for the Minister. Minister, where did the sum of PLN 400 million come from? Why this amount? Because we don't know. At the committee meeting we also worked on this topic and we did not know where 400 million PLN came from to help farmers. [[For two years.]] Now I'd also like to ask... Since other EU countries that are associated with the Union... I mean the example of Romania that I signaled earlier. Romanians have allocated EUR 241 million to their farmers, i.e. they have allocated 1 000 100 thousand, and they are 1/3 smaller than Poland. What shows that in a country such as Poland, which is experiencing such a crisis - and is experiencing a crisis mainly related to ASF and avian influenza - farmers receive and receive so little help in 2022 and 2023? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to get an answer to the question of where this 400 million PLN came from. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u546	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u547	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! From the latest report of the independent experts of PKO SA it is clear that by 2030 the cost of EU climate policy, including for farmers, will be over PLN 2.4 trillion. Even the cost of the CBAM mechanism, which includes fertilisers, is not counted. When we talk about support for farmers, there's a big hot request to the Minister of Agriculture to calculate this cost. I will respond to the honourable Mr Rzepie of the Polish People's Party, a member of the European People's Party: the biggest threat to agriculture, the policy of Frans Timmermans for Polish agriculture is today, high energy prices, high gas prices, high heat prices. In other words, we appeal to the Civic Platform, to PSL, to support the Polish government in the fight for lower energy prices in the EU forum. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't support Frans Timmermans. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u548	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u549	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The situation of many Polish farmers is very difficult. So-called. cost+, in addition to what farmers benefit from: giant, really gigantic increases in fertiliser prices, 300%, 400% , sometimes more, gigantic increases in the prices of plant protection products, including ASF, which has been following us for a long time. It's not optimistic. This proposal is, of course, going in the right direction, but the amount is far too small. If we want Polish farmers to be competitive on the European market, on the world market, it is worth trying to increase this amount of funding, as I appeal to the governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u550	Thank you very much. Mr Romuald Ajchler, member of the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u551	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, I'm wondering, where did you get this number of farms: 1,100 thousand. You threw over or about 300,000. farms - I no longer want to be an apothecary here - including companies such as agricultural production cooperatives, employee companies after former PGRs, a number of other farms that produce food on an equal level, one would like to say, rules such as individual farmers. I wanted to know how many cooperative farms would be covered by this law. Why are you guys doing this? You don't like cooperativeism, which you often like to say in a positive sense? What did former Popegeer workers do to you who expect special help from you today? As far as I'm concerned, they only expect equal treatment, like other economic operators. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u552	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Galemba, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u553	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We keep our word, there was an announcement, today a real bill and we make it. [[20 PLN.]] Are you mocking 400 million zlotys for another agricultural support? How dare you? The Civic Platform hasn't done anything in years. And we keep our word. Farmers can count on us. They receive further support, it is not 400 million PLN, it is another support. [[Applause]] We lower the means of production, we lower the VAT on fertilisers. Can't you see that? Farmers don't throw land overnight because they love it. And the Government of Law and Justice will support and support them. And we're gonna survive this crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u554	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Pamula, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u555	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am very surprised by the Members of PSL, the Left, the Civic Coalition, that they know so little about Polish agriculture. They do not know what payments the farmer receives, what the amount of these payments is. Minister! Is it true that 15 billion a year, over 15 billion a year, Polish farmers under the common agricultural policy receive and up to 15 billion... [[But you haven't negotiated anything yet.]] ... Will the 400 million be included? You do not know that farmers receive payments from 16 October to 30 June of the following year. You have to remember that. This is not one additional payment. We have payments for a young farmer, JPO, animal payment, plant production payment, agri-environment payments, [[♪ The bell ♪]] payments of the ONW. Minister, is this only 40 PLN, approx. 40 PLN per month, which the farmer will receive? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u556	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture... [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[The corrigendum I wanted...]] ...and Rural Development... There won't be a correction, ma'am, because no one attacked you, didn't mention your name. [[But the club was attacked.]] Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development... [[The Member did not understand...]] ...Mr Krzysztof Cióra. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Madame, I have a request for you. [[It's an old perspective. What have you done?]] [[Voice from the room: Mask.]] Excuse me, Minister. Do you think if you scream, it'll be smarter? [[Joy in the Chamber]] I don't know, really. [[Applause]] You're welcome. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u557	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, it would be a lot smarter... Excuse me, sir. I have a request for you. What kind of comments are these? I think I'm really trying to be objective about this. I give you equal voting rights. I've noticed you can't scream in this room. That's all. I'm really asking for respect. I have respect for you. Have respect for me. I think the state and I deserve it. Excuse me, Minister. There you go. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Cięcóra: Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. In fact, I did not expect, coming to the sitting today, that we will debate this law for so long, because it is a very simple act. These are the four articles that we are updating, and in these four articles we define the payment that we will support farmers this year, amounting to PLN 400 million. Ladies and gentlemen, read with understanding. I don't know why in the following speeches there were duplications of these contradictions saying that we spend $400 million on 2 years, which is 200 now, $200 now. That's not true. We are introducing in 2022 and in the following years 400 million additional supplementary payments, which were wound up in 2014, Mrs. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Here I have heard a lot of invectives in our direction talking about the fact that this project is grotesque, caricatureal, that we do not respect farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, who respected farmers more - you, when you abolished this payment in 2014, did we, today, restore it after 7 years? Answer that question. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! The prices of raw materials and products, of course, go up, these are situations independent of us, that is the truth. On the other hand, I would also like to emphasise something that we forget about in the debate and about which, for example. as a farmer, as a member of the farmer's family, I know perfectly well, and it is also important to us that the prices of wheat, barley, rape have increased dramatically. I know that what we've been storing will allow us to survive these nearest, difficult months. Of course, I know that the individual situation of each farmer is completely different, and we approach each farmer very individually, with great respect. A few weeks ago I was in Piotrków Trybunalski at a meeting with pig producers whose situation is very difficult. There was no one from the Civic Platform, there was no one from the Left. All you guys can do is scream out of the platform or get upset, but when there was a particular problem you had to talk about, you weren't there. After all, your fellow Members were also invited, none of you came. So I don't understand these allegations that the Ministry of Agriculture or the United Right today doesn't talk to farmers because we're on the front line today. You're saying we don't support what 400 million is. I would just like to remind you that the budget for agriculture in 2022 is a record 60 billion PLN from our budget. This is 6 billion more than in 2021. I would like to stress that we have been spending 600 million PLN on the whole pig flock in recent years. This is real support, which aims to support farmers, aims to compensate for the problems with which agriculture in Poland, but not only in Poland, because it is currently struggling across Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! Back to the bill we are talking about - it is 400 million PLN only in 2022. We are, of course, introducing this in the following years, and by 2027 this payment will continue to appear. This is not 20 PLN per hectare or per month, as you said here. This is approx. 40 PLN per hectare. I also do not understand the allegations of categorization under this law. There are no categories. Whoever owns who owns the hectare, who owns the farmer, can do so from the first hectare he owns, which he owns in his resource, may apply for these subsidies. There aren't any categories out there, division into farmers like this or this. Simply who owns the land, who has the power to submit applications for aid, can submit such applications and everyone is equally prepared for these payments. We will this year, in this campaign of 2022, surely very dynamically grant this money. The following allegations, which came from this speaker, are that Romania and Bulgaria have a much higher supplementary payment than Poland. Right, I agree with you. On the other hand, you forget that Romania and Bulgaria entered the European Union much later than Poland and they have completely different limits to this support they have, the greater support they can give to their farmers from their own country's budget. Today we simply have such EU restrictions and we are granting this money, which - also because of our internship in the European Union - we can admit it. Today we're leveling the EU average. Today, this law leads most farmers in Poland to receive about the same amount of money from payments per hectare as their colleagues from other countries of the European Union. This is the average. We do not compare ourselves to France, Germany, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, etc. This is the average of all those payments that are made within the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! I have no doubt that this is a project expected by farmers. Let me remind you that we are really restoring what our predecessors have eliminated. It's what the Civic Platform, the Polish People's Party, did. In 2014, you wound up this payment, the Government of the United Right in 2020 restores it. I'm very happy for you. I would also like to thank you for this broad support and understanding that we should withdraw from our mistakes from years ago and support those projects that we are implementing as a government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u558	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm shutting down my presence and activity in this chair. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the urgent draft law on specific arrangements for the protection of gas fuel customers in connection with the situation on the gas market (prints Nos 1902 and 1907). I ask Mr Wiesław Krajewski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u559	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, along with the Accompanying Ministers. It has been my honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the urgent draft of the Government's Law on Special Solutions for the Protection of Gas Fuels in view of the situation on the gas market, print No 1902. It is an extremely important and very necessary law that regulates certain current processes in order to protect Poland, Poles, households and many sensitive institutions that are exposed to these galloping gas prices, but it is also a project that tangiblely proves that the Polish government with Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and the current Deputy Prime Minister Jack Sasin, who heads the Ministry of State Acts, responds to such dangers that threaten Poles, Polish families and the whole business that is based on gas, which is also needed for various types of production and technological processes. Today, i.e. On 12 January this year, the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets carried out its first reading of this draft law. First of all, I would like to stress that during the process of the proposed bill, all the members of the committee saw the seriousness of the current complex situation of rising gas prices, although it was not without enough emotional statements by the opposition Members trying to accuse the current government, the parliamentary majority, that they were carrying some Guilty for the current state of the gas crisis. And yet we know very well that the wine is absolutely on the side of the coalition of the Civic Platform and the ruling PSL in the years 2007 to 2015. [[Applause]] Already then appropriate steps had to be taken to safeguard the diversification of this energy source between Poland and Poles. An example, ladies and gentlemen, is the President of the Republic of Poland. Prof. Lech Kaczyński, who initiated the construction of a gas tank in Świnoujście. This is an example and it was worth continuing at that time. It is about energy security in the gas field in Poland. Mr Maciej Małecki, present at the committee meeting during the process of dealing with this law, specifically reminded the opposition of what could have been done in the area of energy security. Unfortunately, it can be said that little has been done at this time to become independent of our eastern neighbour, who has destabilised the whole of Europe in this area. After all, we all know that business is not the cause of the present difficult, crisis situation of gas. Due to the increased demand for gas in Europe and Asia and the simultaneous reduced supply of this fuel, the raw material from the main suppliers, mainly Russia, the prices of natural gas on global and European exchanges, including the Polish Freight Energy Exchange, are experiencing drastic, unprecedented growth. The extremely high level of gas prices in the European Union is largely influenced by the Russian Gazprom strategy of halting spot supplies to the European Union, abandoning the use of free capacity of existing transit routes, and pressing Gazprom warehouses in the European Union without rebuilding stocks before the winter season. The uniqueness of the current situation and the difficult time horizon for disturbances in the European Union's energy and gas markets mean that not only during the current heating season, but also during the spring and summer periods in 2022 gas prices will remain very high, which means that there is a high likelihood of a significant price increase again in the winter of 2022 and their continuation in the following years. In view of the above, it is not possible to predict the timing of the ongoing crisis and the extent and scale of the direct and indirect socio-economic impacts that have been felt by entrepreneurs, households, residents of multi-location buildings since the beginning of the heating season 2021/2022, as well as by other gas customers, in particular vulnerable customers, i.e. hospitals, schools, kindergartens, nursery schools, cultural institutions or other such facilities. Mandatory natural gas stocks are one of the key measures to combat the crisis in the natural gas market, in particular in the event of exceptional disruptions in the supply of this raw material or adverse weather conditions. In the past, mandatory stocks have protected the most vulnerable customers of natural gas as household customers from supply constraints, which confirmed the effectiveness of the measure. Enabling a state legal person, the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency, to take up part of the obligations relating to the maintenance of mandatory stocks of natural gas, guarantees an increase in the State's oversight of these stocks, thereby increasing the real capacity to take action in the event of an emergency. However, the limited supply of gas fuel on the market represents an important risk to increase the State's supervision of mandatory stocks. The changes envisaged in the project are aimed at fulfilling the State's obligation to provide access to the universal service covering the continuous and secure supply of gas to customers. At the same time, in order to minimise increases in gas fuel prices for the most vulnerable customers, and in order to increase the energy security of the State by ensuring the continuity of natural gas supplies to customers and ensuring an adequate level of liquidity for gas companies, there is a need to introduce specific shielding solutions to minimise the negative socio-economic impact of the sudden, rapid price increase of this raw material on the market. This bill will allow the launch of extraordinary instruments enhancing energy security of Poland, and in the short term supporting households, residents of multi-site buildings, as well as other vulnerable customers. During his work involving the first reading in the commission of the Deputy Minister of State Assets, Mr Maciej Małecki discussed in detail the draft law submitted, while appealing to Members of the opposition to support this law in a special way during this extraordinary period of some manipulation related to price increases, which is directed to the European area but also to Poland. The proposed solutions include the extension of the catalogue of operators covered by tariff protection, the introduction of a compensation mechanism for natural gas sellers, confirmation and emphasising in the provisions of the law the need for tariff protection of natural gas customers in multi-site buildings who have not concluded individual comprehensive contracts or contracts for the purchase of natural gas with energy undertakings. The project proposes extending tariff protection to the following entities: healthcare providers financed by public funds, social assistance organisations, accommodation and heating units, family support organisations and foster care systems, education system entities, higher education and science entities, crèches and children's clubs, churches and other religious associations, cultural entities, archival entities, voluntary firefighters. The extension of tariff protection is justified by the specific tasks carried out by these operators and the particularly severe effects of the rise in natural gas prices in terms of the feasibility of performing public service tasks. The project provides for the freezing of gas fuel prices at the price level specified in the ex officio seller's tariff - Article. 62c paragraph. 1 Act - Energy law - established on the basis of Article. 62f Act - Energy Law for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2022 At the same time, this price is of the nature of the maximum price, which means that the customers who have previously concluded a contract with a supplier providing a lower price are subject to this lower price until the end of the contract. Also, if price reductions were to occur during 2022 and traders started to offer prices lower than those set out in the ex officio tariffs, those prices would apply which would be reduced. At the same time, the proposed solutions exclude the possibility of increasing fuel prices and tariffs in 2022. In view of the application by the energy undertaking of the mechanism to spread over the time of the increase in the tariff price of natural gas for household customers, the draft law provides in this respect for compensation for the energy undertaking for each calendar month from the date on which the operator is entitled to apply the tariff calculated on the basis of the principles set out in Article. 62f of the above law. The total cost of compensation provided for by the Act shall not exceed PLN 10 billion. Compensation will be paid by the Difference Payment Fund Prices to which 40% will be paid in 2022 the funds obtained from the sale by auction of emission allowances. According to the records, this amount may not exceed PLN 6424 million. The COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund will be complemented. The draft law also provides for changes in the way in which mandatory stocks are implemented - the amendment of the Law of 16 February 2007 on oil stocks, petroleum products and natural gas and the rules for dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the State and disturbances on the oil market. According to the project, it will be possible to order mandatory natural gas stocks from entities to maintain these stocks also from the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency. According to Art. 20 draft law is proposed to enter into force on the day following the date of publication. The entry into force of the Act on the day following its publication is justified by the difficult situation of gas fuel customers affected by the gas price increase. The project provisions support households, residents of multi-site buildings and other vulnerable customers. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the Higher House, the Senate, in its democratic majority will also lean on the very necessary law of Poles and Poland as we do. The bill came into the Sejm yesterday. Today, under the chairmanship of President Marek Suski, a committee meeting was held successfully. Now we're doing a second reading. I hope that tomorrow it will be passed, and the Senate will not be doing obstructions over this law, only to the extent that it will be able to renegotiate it and the President will be able to sign it in the interest of Poles quickly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, One amendment was tabled at first reading, which was adopted unanimously by the committee. I would also like to inform the High House that the committee unanimously voted on this government bill. This certainly shows that the proposed regulations will achieve the expected safety effect of Poles, while at the same time reducing to a large extent the effects of rising prices for natural gas. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets, after first reading and considering this draft law, taking into account the amendment adopted, recommends that the High House adopt the attached draft government bill on specific arrangements for the protection of gas fuel customers in view of the situation on the gas market, print No 1902. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u560	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. Before I open the discussion, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Council of Ministers, Minister of State Assets Mr Jacek Sasin, asked for the floor. You're welcome, Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u561	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is a need for a broader discussion of the context of the submission of this draft law to the High House. Unfortunately, this need arises from numerous statements of opposition representatives who are making various kinds of conspiracy theories, which supposedly are the causes of the rapid rise in energy prices in Poland - both electricity and gas. It's obvious that these things need to be cleared up. It seemed that this discussion, which is going on all the time, was rich enough to reach your politicians who are speaking on this issue, taking the floor, that knowledge had a chance to reach it. Turns out not necessarily. Even today, the former Foreign Minister seems to be a serious person, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Civil Platform's times - PSL Radosław Sikorski had some conspiracy theories that such rapid price increases in the global gas markets were caused by stock market manipulations of some PGNiG daughter company. Ladies and gentlemen! If this is the level we're discussing... Of course, PGNiG is a powerful company under Polish conditions, a company that supplies gas fuel to houses of the vast majority of Poles, but I would like it to be so powerful that it can influence global gas markets and the price of gas on world markets. Unfortunately, this is not yet the case, but this example also shows that this issue needs to be discussed more widely. Hence my request to your marshal to be able to present this context. High Izbo! In recent weeks, many Polish houses have received increased electricity and gas bills. It is a sad necessity, which results from the rapid rise in gas prices on global markets on the one hand, on the other hand from the European Union's crazy climate policy, which causes a sharp increase in CO2 emissions certificates. This experiment, which the European Union is conducting today on the living body of European societies, has come out of the goals that were right, which were intended to protect our climate, our planet from the disastrous effects of overdeveloped civilization, but how many legitimate projects this project has clearly degenerate. Without looking at the real costs borne by the inhabitants of the Member States of the European Union, more and more radical solutions are being proposed, which will result in these surges in energy prices becoming something common for the citizens of the European Union, including unfortunately also Polish citizens. These increases in gas prices and, above all, the electricity that we are dealing with can certainly be called EU increases. EU increases in electricity directly arising from this policy and, as for gas indirectly also resulting from European Union policy. Only thanks to the actions of the Polish government, which have been intensively undertaken in recent weeks, months, have we managed to limit the scale of these increases to one which, although severe, are not as big as they could be. For gas prices, this average household account increase was 54% While gas prices on European markets in the peak, as far as these fluctuations are concerned, reached up to 1000% higher than a year ago, and in general a year-on-year average, this increase never falls below 500%, 600% About last year. As far as prices are concerned, so-called. CO2 certificates, this increase is three times over the last year: from EUR 30 per tonne of CO2 a year ago to over EUR 90 in recent days. Unfortunately, all this is very painfully reflected on the pockets of Poles. High Izbo! After this introduction, let us look at the effects in a more detailed way. The European Union's climate policy does not take into account the specificities of countries such as Poland. We are a country that has started its energy transformation from a completely different level than other European countries. We're doing a lot to change that. In the last six years, we've invested a lot in renewable energy sources... [[Especially windmills.]] ...by making this share of renewable energy sources in the energy mix increased in the last 6 years from 11% in 2014 to 16% in 2020. Thus, we have met the EU target: 15% the share of RES in 2020. During this time, we were catching up on the failure of the PO-PSL governments, when the pace of investment in RES was significantly lower. [[Applause]] Despite the efforts we make, ladies and gentlemen, the efforts that cost us all very much, because we need to invest billions of zlotys today in new sources of energy generation, despite these efforts we are investing this money. [[Voice from the hall: In the windmills.]] [[You're not investing.]] Despite these efforts, still 70% energy in Poland is produced from coal. This makes the Polish economy and the Polish society in particular feel very strongly about the effects of the European Union's climate policy, which maximises the price of CO2 certificates. But on the other hand - and it also needs to be, High Izbo, at this point to say - this is also a chance for us today. It is also a situation that has its advantages. Today, Europe as a whole is suffering from a shortage of energy resources. Today, in many European countries, governments are telling their citizens that they are not able to provide them with the winter that is currently going on with the right amount of electricity and heat. Some governments in western Europe go on to appeal to their citizens to gather hot food or candles for heating. In Poland, we are not in danger of this kind of situation. On the one hand, we are not threatened because we have coal and energy based on raw materials, which is in our hands, and on the other hand because of our prevention, prevention of our government, which consistently builds our energy independence and diversifys the supply of gas to Poland. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's on the initiative of the sleep. President Lech Kaczyński was built a gasport in Świnoujście, which was snailed during the reign of our predecessors... [[What? That's not true.]] ...and we have brought this construction to an end by investing today in the expansion of the gasport so that it can provide us with diversified sources of gas supply. We have also undertaken the construction of the Baltic Pipe pipeline, which will enable us to supply Norwegian gas to Poland in the next few months. Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry also invests very intensively in the extraction of natural gas deposits both in the Norwegian shelf and, for example, in Ukraine recently, buying deposits and buying companies that extract these deposits. We turned out to be smarter than our Western partners, who at the same time, when we are independent of Russian Gazprom, the addiction deepened by giving control over a significant part of the strategic gas infrastructure to Gazprom. This happened, for example, in Germany and the Netherlands, where much of the gas warehouses are today owned by a Russian tycoon. It is these warehouses which today are not filled by this Russian tycoon, and therefore the countries are threatened with a shortage of gas supplies. But part of this destructive policy, the misguided policy of our Western partners, is also further dependence on Russian gas, which also serves to invest in gas pipelines. Nord Stream and Nord Stream 2. But, ladies and gentlemen, one thing is access to energy raw materials, and this access today is not threatened, and another thing is the price of these raw materials or the price for which we produce and sell electricity. All Poles need to know that in the electricity bill paid today more than 60% its values are EU charges. If it had not been for the European Union's climate policy, these accounts today would have been more than 60% lower. 59% average electricity bill in Poland is the cost of CO2 emissions and a further 8% Other fees and taxes imposed on us by the European Union. Only 33%, 1/3 of electricity bills is the price of electricity generation and sale by Polish energy companies. That's the cost. it is this policy, the imposition of too fast an energy transformation by the Brussels bureaucracy. Ladies and gentlemen! In this Chamber too, there are many supporters of accelerating the energy transition and the European Union's increasingly stringent climate policy. I wonder if that's the kind of opinion you make... Publicly, here in this room, there were calls to the government to move away from coal in a very short time to make our economy, our energy will emit much less CO2. I wonder if you are ready to stand before Poles today and say that electricity will be much more expensive and whether you will actually bear the costs, also the political costs of this knowledge, that you want to fund today to Polish families armagedon in the form of electricity bills, energy bills, [[That's how it is.]] The high prices of CO2 certificates are starting to get out of control. This mechanism, which was designed to accelerate, encourage energy transformation, to look for other sources, clean energy sources, has clearly degenerate. EU politicians, EU officials for many years have said that their aim is to make these certificates more expensive in an uncontrollable way, because they say that this incentive for energy transformation is to be even greater. The effects we see today. These effects are not just energy prices, ladies and gentlemen. These consequences are mainly prices in Polish shops, also prices of food, services, other goods for which Poles pay. It's all a derivative of prices, high energy prices. This was admitted recently by Frans Timmermans, the man who is the face of this accelerated energy transformation. In an interview with the Rzeczpospolita in December 2021, he stated that rising energy prices were indeed the result of climate policy and the pursuit of a rapid energy transition. These high prices, he admitted, are causing high inflation throughout Europe, and this in turn causes the wrath of society, because many European societies today are beginning to protest against this violent rise in prices. But the same Frans Timmermans in the interview I mentioned didn't see anything wrong with it. On the contrary, it says that these are very positive actions, because societies in Western Europe will press for this process of energy transformation to be completed quickly. These are claims which have no reference to our Polish situation, to the situation in which the Polish society, the Polish state and as much as we can afford. There's no reflection here. There is a lack of reflection and recognition that, in a time of crisis that is caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus, the European Commission, the European Union should mitigate the effects of this crisis and not, through its ill-considered policies, exacerbate these negative effects. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Opposite! Here, in this room, banners with the inscription "PiS = expensive." I would like to say to you that if you had a little honesty, you should put banners here: 'Climate policy of the European Union = expensive', 'European Union and Brussels decisions = expensive', because that would be a real statement. [[Applause]] It must be said that the Brussels bureaucrats have done a lot to bring about this situation, but it's not just their fault, it's not just theirs. It is also, ladies and gentlemen, the work of today's opposition and once the power in Poland. Further decisions taken by the governments of Donald Tusk and Ewa Kopacz, especially those of 2008 and 2014, opened the way for such policies to be implemented. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, for your kneeling submission to the European Union then (the bell), against the European elites then, today Poles pay a huge price, and this price is energy prices, this price is rising inflation. Worse still, it turns out that instead of reflection there is an acceleration, there is an idea to tighten this screw even more. Presented Fit for package 55, whose face is Frans Timmermans, is to additionally pay climate taxes not only energy production, but also our homes and our cars. It is intended to make every Polish family except that it will bear the cost of higher energy prices, higher heating prices, it will still have to pay for emissions from their homes and their cars. Many reports have been produced which indicate the costs of this policy for Poland, for the Polish society. The recently disclosed report by Bank Pekao SA shows that by 2030 the total cost of the European Union's climate policy in this issue, proposed by Frans Timmermans, is over PLN 2440 billion for Poland. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? This means that by 2030 every Polish citizen from infant to pensioner will have to contribute 64 000 to this policy. PLN that the average 4-person Polish family will lose over 250,000 on this climate policy. zł. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the cost of an apartment in a medium-sized city. That's how much this green revolution costs us. This is what we have to do with the investments we have to make in energy. Does this mean that we are opposed to climate policy? Well, I'd like to say no. We want to implement this climate policy. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: And we are.]] You have the right. We want to implement this climate policy, climate change policy, but this policy must be a sensible policy. This policy must take into account the specificities of individual countries and societies; it must not be lined up with ideology; it must be based on real calculations and real statements of the capacities of individual countries. Let us change our approach to the climate, let us make energy transformation, but let us make it with common sense and in such a way that there are no very negative effects that the European Commission also envisages at the moment, and these negative effects are particularly expected to affect Poland and the Polish society. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission in its documents assumes that the average increase in energy prices for households across the European Union will increase by around 30%. But at the same time, the same European Commission in its analyses says that the mechanisms proposed by the European Union to accelerate climate change will hit the poorest countries of the European Union and their poorest citizens the hardest. These documents clearly indicate that the countries whose energy is based on coal will suffer the most from the proposed solutions. Does that mean anything to you? Do you know what country the European Commission is writing about? Because it seems to me that it is our country that Poland will be the country that will suffer the most from these solutions. At the same time, in these documents - I stress: these are the documents of the European Commission - it is also pointed out that in each of the European countries the costs of this transformation will mostly fall on these poorest or relatively poorest circles of society, those which will have to invest most in their homes, in the exchange of equipment, in the exchange of their cars. This will cause even greater social dissection than what we're dealing with today. Ladies and gentlemen! This policy shifts us as a country in development today, causing Poland as a country that is rapidly developing and chasing the richest countries of the European Union, not only to stop on this road, but to retreat, and our Polish society will be even more fragmented. Those who are less wealthy will be even less wealthy. High Izbo! These biggest increases, which recently fell on Polish society, concern the price of natural gas. The rise in natural gas prices is due to the global problem of manipulating Gazprom - a Russian tycoon, a gas supplier to most European countries. The fact that this could have happened is the result of the many-year misguided policies that European countries have pursued, which have done nothing for years to come out of addiction or at least reduce dependence on Russian gas supplies. I have already talked about the fact that gas prices have been rising in a completely crazy way recently: from EUR 20 a year ago to a maximum of over EUR 180 per MWh. At the beginning of this year, this price was around EUR 100 and was five times higher than the previous year. Through the price pressure on Europe, Russia is today trying to achieve two strategic objectives, namely, firstly, to push the possibility of launching the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, which makes Europe even more dependent on Russia and Russian policy, and secondly, to force long-term long-term contracts on European consumers to ensure budgetary influence in the long term. We return to the time when you gave us Poland after 8 years of your reign. In 2015, the proportion of Russian gas in all Polish imports reached 90%. Poland in 90% She was addicted to Russian gas supplies. Within 6 years of our governments, we have reduced this share of Russian gas in Poland's demand to around 60%. And from year to year, also in the near future, and this year that started will be a breakthrough year, this gas dependence on Russia will weaken. This has been achieved thanks to the investments I have already mentioned - I will not repeat this again - but since 2023 it will allow us to actually become completely independent of Russian gas. Europe has gone in a different direction and has become more dependent on this gas. As I said, the long-term omissions of the countries of the European Union, which were deaf to Polish warnings... Because we told our partners that we could not trust Vladimir Putin's assurances that gas would not be part of the economic war with Europe. The countries of the European Union have been deaf, and today they have huge problems with it. Some countries of the European Union, as I mentioned, have given control over a significant part of the strategic gas infrastructure of Gazprom, among others. countries such as Germany and the Netherlands. Germany is the advocate of Nord Stream 2, an extremely dangerous project for Europe. Please note that these two countries are concerned: Germany and the Netherlands, which teach Poland so easily and so easily. They're telling us what to do, and they can't cope with Russian gas supply addiction on their own. And thanks to this policy Gazprom could turn on the tap and manipulate the supply of gas on European markets. In addition, what has to be noted, the German Government wants to turn off half of the nuclear blocks in its country by the end of this year, although it is unable to replace these blocks with zero-emission sources. So what's gonna happen? Even more Russian gas will have to be brought in to ensure German energy security and thus Vladimir Putin will be given even stronger instruments to blackmail Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a wall rally, this is a policy that allows Putin to maximize profits and blackmail the whole of Europe. Unfortunately, Poland is also affected by this wrong EU policy towards Russia. Therefore, we, as the Government of the United Right, must take extraordinary measures and this is the act which was submitted to the High House to protect Poles from the consequences of this wrong policy. [[Applause]] This is, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, another law which is prepared and submitted by the government or by our parliamentary majority to achieve precisely this objective: to ensure protection for Poles. Let me remind you that last year we presented to the High House - and it is already in force - a change in the Energy Law which allowed PGNiG to spread the effects of these gigantic gas increases on global markets over a period of more than one year for a period of three years. This allowed really to reduce the gas prices that URE had set, the increase that URE had set, to this level that I was talking about, 54%. Otherwise, if not for this solution, this increase would have to be around 200%. We then proposed and implemented an anti-inflationary shield that reduced VAT and excise duty on energy raw materials. At the moment, an anti-inflationary shield 2.0 has been submitted to further mitigate the effects of rising energy prices. There is also zero VAT on gas in these solutions. It's supposed to make gas prices not go any higher. We introduced 5% VAT on electricity and also on heat, 8% VAT on fuel instead of the previous 23%, which will make petrol at petrol stations cheaper by 60 to 70 gr per litre; the price will be in the range of PLN 5 per litre. But we also introduce reductions in those taxes that concern the most sensitive products for Poles, mostly food products - here this VAT will be reduced to 0% - but also fertilizer. The idea is that the effects of the increase in gas prices should not be so much passed on to Polish farmers and thus not translate into another increase in food prices. In addition, we have implemented a cover supplement for people in the most difficult financial situation. Nearly 7 million households will benefit from this supplement. In total, we have allocated almost PLN 5 billion for this purpose. High Izbo! These are unique actions in Europe. I want to make this very clear. No European country has taken as extensive anti-inflationary measures as in Poland. [[Applause]] This shows with which responsibility we take on our mission to exercise power, which we are aware of, that the role of government is in this situation, which in no case has been blamed by us, which is, as I have shown earlier, the result of politics conducted outside Poland, often in opposition to Poland, often showing that there are alternatives to... But when these effects fall on Poles, we do not say that they are not blamed by us, and we do not break hands, we do not say that we cannot do anything, but we undertake courageous tasks that actually cost the budget of the state huge amounts. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! We're making a bill that fits in with the policy I was talking about. This law - Mr Krajewski, the rapporteur of the committee, has talked about this for a very long time, so let me briefly say it - covers three areas of action. Firstly, it tariffifies, covers a tariff, i.e. it regulates, prices for all dwellings, regardless of whether these premises account for the supplier directly or through intermediaries such as cooperatives or other forms of joint settlement of premises. This will cause people, Polish families, who heat their houses with gas, to continue to be safe, that this heat will flow to their homes. On the other hand, these extraordinary solutions, as I am about to say, also concern those most vulnerable institutions that decide the most important areas of our citizens' lives. I am talking about education, hospitals, daycare, kindergartens, social assistance - all these institutions without which today it is difficult to imagine that we could normally function as a society. Here too we introduce the principle of rigid tariff gas prices, well below market prices. [[Applause]] Because like I said, this tariff increase is 54%. And if we were talking about market growth, it would have to be ten times higher. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Finally, the third area is PGNiG's support area, because if any company, any economic entity - and yet PGNiG is a normal market entity - we force the right to sell their product significantly below the price at which they obtain it, this compensation system is quite obvious. I am surprised that your leader Donald Tusk, when submitting a bill on this matter, did not foresee such a compensation system - as if he wanted PGNiG to go bankrupt in a short time. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, we're used to this policy you've been running for eight years of your government and before, [[Applause]] which consisted in leading large, state-owned, strategic companies into bankruptcy so that they could be privatized later on, sold to the best Western capital. As you can see, you wanted to repeat the exact same maneuver today with PGNiG. [[You're lying!]] But we PGNiG, which is a strategic company that supplies gas to most Polish houses, will defend. That is why we introduced the whole system of financial support, whether in the form of guarantees, whether in the form of loans guaranteed by the State Treasury and provided directly from the State Treasury. It also serves to ensure that this extraordinary situation does not last too long, because it has consequences also for other areas of PGNiG's activities. We had to temporarily stop investments, also those investments which are so much expected by Poles as gasification. [[Voice from the room: Tauron.]] We had to stop these investments in order to ensure PGNiG's liquidity until the provisions of this law, which we are proposing today, were adopted. I want to assure you that when this law enters into force, these investments will also start, because they are needed and expected by Poles. And we will certainly not be carrying out these activities, which I am talking about, also at the expense of what is important today for many Polish families. High Izbo! We will not make mistakes in the 2008 PO-PSL governance when you agreed to speed up climate policy and we will not accept that these unacceptable changes enter into force. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! This ideological race that we are seeing in Europe today, I feel, and I think I am not wrong, has less and less to do with the concern for the European Community's natural environment and interests, and is increasingly becoming a tool for Europe to be divided. Such a divided Europe is easier to manage. The European Union is moving away from what was its foundation today, and this foundation was to level up opportunities and build space where European citizens can enjoy the same level of living regardless of where they live. What European policy serves today is another division and building a Europe of two wealth. The countries of the old European Union have been able, for some time, and especially for six years, when Poland has been developing particularly quickly, to observe with concern that our country, but also other countries of our region, are able to take effective economic competition with them, and very quickly reduce the distance these countries share from the richest countries or richer countries of the European Union. Instead of effectively competing with us on fair terms, those countries want to win the development race with dishonest methods and want the countries of the Union that lie in our part of Europe, in Central and Eastern Europe, to bring them into the role of... They were used to our countries, including Poland, having this role, i.e. the role of the cheap labour reserve and the market for their products. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] This policy is used to return to what liberal politicians considered two decades ago to be the highest prospects of the Polish economy, i.e. to be the back of European giants. I'm sure we can't agree on this to suppress our growth potential. [[Applause]] High Izbo! If I had not heard many times what your opinion is and what your approach to important matters, matters important for Poland, matters which are completely fundamental to the Polish cause of the state, and I am addressing here opposition, mainly the opposition which itself called itself a total, i.e. opposition from the Civic Platform... [[And what's that for?]] ...I would call on you to take together actions that Polish society will protect against the consequences of this policy. But I think it's a shame to waste the time of the High House on such appeals, because it's still known in advance that they will remain unanswered. But regardless of this, I would like to inform the High House, and through your Members of all our Polish citizens, that we will take all actions both in Brussels and in Poland... [[We'll pay back $70 million.]] ...to protect millions of Poles from the consequences of the wrong policy that the European Commission is serving us today. [[Applause]] We will do everything possible to ensure that the Fit for 55 package does not enter into force. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the hall: Morawiecki signed off.]] We're counting, ladies and gentlemen... [[This is an attack on the Prime Minister.]] [[Keep your voice down!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We do not hope that thanks to Brussels sons we will survive a difficult time at a time when Polish [[Applause]] society will be affected by this policy. We're not gonna make love to Brussels decision-makers at the expense of Polish society, just to get... [[Voice from the hall: Only the Russians, the refineries sold to the Russians.]] ...economic positions in the European Union. Today she really isn't. [[Applause]] It's already about our convenience, and it's not about how we're going to get our profits as politicians. [[Just feel sorry for me.]] But the idea is to protect millions of Polish families. And therefore, High Izbo, there can be no consent to the deterioration of the conditions of life of Poles, [[Applause]] There can be no agreement for us to have a policy that I will repeat once again, ending with... [[People get lower salaries, lower pensions.]] I know, ladies and gentlemen, it's very difficult for you to hear this, but I assure you, you will have to listen to it for a very long time and many times until you understand... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...that there is no other way for Poland today than to protect Polish citizens from the devastating consequences... [[It's Russia, it's Russia, right?]] ...too fast energy transformation. I'll say it again at the end. We are in favour of making an energy transformation. [[Russia.]] We're all in favour of protecting the climate. We are in favour of living in a healthy environment and providing the Poles with clean air. But this change must take place in such a way that it does not lead the Polish society to poverty and not stop the development of Poland. [[Applause]] And in this way, High Izbo, we will lead this policy. And today we are doing everything we can to protect Poles from those consequences that are already so severe, and that is why we are submitting... [[Maybe you guys shouldn't do that. They're all losses.]] ...a draft bill that is being discussed today by the High House. I ask for broad support for this project, I ask for support for Polish families and protection of Polish families from the consequences of sudden increases in gas prices. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Some Members get up, give them a round of applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u562	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm opening... [[Your marshal... 22 minutes...]] Mrs... I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Suski will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. [[How can you do that by 22 minutes?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u563	Dear Marshal! Dear Marshal and Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Council of Ministers! Mr. and Mrs. Parliamentarians! [[You gave us 30 seconds.]] I hope that some of our compatriots listen to this extremely important debate about the future of Poland, [[Applause]] because in fact this debate is about the future of Poland, because it was never good for Poland when Germany and Russia agreed to rule - today the European Union, once Europe. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[And you sell them refineries and gas stations.]] [[Voice from the room: Lotus.]] It has always been a disaster, but Russia has never promised to work for the peoples of the European Union. [[That's why you're selling us to the Russians.]] The Germans were talking about some energy solidarity, but when it came to business, they get along with Russia against other countries to distribute Russian gas and take a pension for being a distribution hub. Well, you could say that every country, every nation cares about its own interests. You can say, "We don't deny it to them, it's a shame that they refuse us the same thing." [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You don't deny the Russians.]] On the other hand, I am very amazed that in Poland they have so many of their hot helpers. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Yes, my dears. [[In the PiS, and in the government, great.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have introduced several laws to protect Poles, as the Prime Minister and the rapporteur spoke about, among others. The law, which was supposed to give Polish families the opportunity to buy gas at a much lower price than we purchase from abroad, because we have little of our own resources. [[30%.]] And it turned out that the former city presidents didn't report these apartments and raised their residents' prices in horror talk about the fact that your president here in Warsaw did so, among other things. We were wondering if this was sabotage. [[Don't lie to me.]] Or maybe it's a tenement order to get rid of these people and sell the tenements. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Oh, dear, my fellow Member.]] But it can be even more so that it is simply the implementation of German policy... [[Mother of God.]] ...which aims to deprive Poland of its energy sovereignty and, as a result, to deprive us of its political sovereignty. And here, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt today that what is happening in the world, in Europe, what Putin is doing, is an energy war. The war where Poland is again in Russian-German ticks, because it is Germany and Russia who are playing against other nations in this war. But we are talking about Poland and Poles and these solutions, which are included here, are just so that in this war Poles did not suffer great losses. Yes, there will be some costs, but today the state has adopted laws that oblige companies, thanks to the fact that they were not privatized in your time, because you failed to do so fortunately, you ruled too briefly to do so. [[Applause]] Today these companies will sell gas below the purchase price to protect Poles from it. But, ladies and gentlemen, when we were working on this bill and on the previous comprehensive, so that such mechanisms could be implemented, we heard e.g. from the representatives of the Platform that you sold gas networks, a few percent, and those German companies that purchased it, raised our citizens' prices in horrors, did not benefit from this mechanism we introduced. You're the ones who said you were banned from selling gas networks and selling gas warehouses in your program. As we looked at the records in this program, that's what you had in the program to sell gas magazines. Today, however, you said that you were banned from selling these networks, although in Gdańsk you sold them in many other municipalities. But you had the same thing in the program as you had in the program 500+. [[Applause]] That's how you're perfect in these programs. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Don't lie to me.]] [[But that's not true about Gdansk. That's not true.]] When things fall apart or the Law and Justice work, you say, "We in the drawers had these ideas, it was our idea, you stole it." [[Voice from the room: But it's not true. What are you saying?]] Yeah, you said you had 500+ in the drawer. It was your Member who said that you were banned from selling the network in the program. You've just been selling these networks weirdly. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Member, mask.]] These are, ladies and gentlemen, the actions of the Civic Platform (The Bell), which I believe by doing what it does, played in the German game because they ended up selling gas magazines in Germany. Today they suffer because they don't have gas because Russia bought these warehouses and didn't fill them. And today it forces Europe to launch Nord Stream... [[Voice from the room: Bullshit.]] ...which is a tool for the political war against Europe and the prosperity of our country. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] We will defend Poles and this bill and the next will be to protect Poles from this crazy energy policy. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] Thank you, sir. Although I don't think that's crazy. This is a planned strategy to deprive us of prosperity and sovereignty. [[Yes, sir.]] Thank you very much, sir. We're not gonna let that happen. [[Applause]] Law and Justice will defend Poland against these temptations. And those who help the Germans will settle the public. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[How can you lie like that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u564	Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u565	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It's very difficult for you to admit your mistakes. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] I will no longer talk about mistakes from many years ago and from my last term of office, I will talk about those from the last month. [[The voice from the hall: God and who says this?]] On 17 December, the President of the URE announces that the increase in household gas prices will not be more than 54% After that, it turns out that in housing communities, in cooperatives this increase reaches several hundred percent. Drama. People stand helpless with accounts that threaten to have their radiators off. What are you saying? You say it's the self-government, it's the community's fault. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And meanwhile, you are admitting right now by doing this bill, that it is not self-government, that it is necessary to change in the Energy Law the definition of individual audience and that is what we do. Donald Tusk before Sylvester said to you: make a bill, change the definition of an individual. If you don't, we will. On 3 January, a project of the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition was sent to the Marshal's staff. [[Applause]] changes that definition. It'll keep people safe. [[Voice from the room: Graceful.]] Then, in the print we are discussing at the moment, you are also securing communities, not to mention that Rafał Trzaskowski is guilty or the housing communities are guilty. It's just a pathetic argument. It is pathetic because, ladies and gentlemen, on the PGNiG pages there was a statement - I will show this statement when asking a question - which was ambiguous. If I signed this statement as a community, I would be responsible for giving false information. I could only confirm that the heat I use is for households. ♪ If I had this ♪ He did, and at this point I would be subject to criminal and possibly financial liability as a housing community. On the other hand, as Members, we went to meetings with entrepreneurs, with DPS, with hospitals. What did it turn out to be? The situation is dramatic. It is important to secure vulnerable consumers and entrepreneurs. In the meantime, what are you doing? You don't remember entrepreneurs at all. We, on the other hand, remember them in our bill. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Do you have any money?]] [[Voice from the room: Where'd you get the money?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u566	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u567	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Let us remember that we live today. Law and Justice have ruled for six years. [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] We should help Poles in this really difficult situation, which the government of the Civic Platform has certainly not led to. [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] The plague reigned under the rule of law and justice. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] It is in the rule of law and justice that entrepreneurs receive invoices higher by 700%. It's Donald Tusk saying to you: get to work. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] You can feel his breath on your back when he shows you the tragedy of Poles, families who, after paying for electricity and gas, are not enough for life. It shows you entrepreneurs who say: I will have to close the plant, fire employees or raise the price of my products. Today, the Prime Minister of this government says from the Parliament that he is saving Poles. These Poles are saying to the Prime Minister: Prime Minister, show us whether these actions, whether the provisions of this bill protect us from the crazy inflation, from the crazy cost. Do these regulations protect our jobs, our bets? Entrepreneurs ask: Prime Minister, how are we supposed to run our business? What relief did you bring? Donald Tusk reminds you again that business needs to be helped. On January 10th he says that the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club is proposing a bill that we need to help entrepreneurs... [[Voice from the room: How?]] ...because entrepreneurs will raise the prices of their products and services, making inflation crazy again. Is that what you want? For six years, you have ruined Poland. All by negligence, sloppyness, chaos and incompetence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: But how?]] This is Poland today. [[Voice from the room: Get down on the ground.]] Mr. Marshal! I am submitting amendments to the Civic Coalition to support entrepreneurs. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Brilliant speech, brilliant.]] [[He couldn't have done better with Gomulka.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u568	Mrs Beata Maciejewska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u569	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister Sasin! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You opened your mouth to Pandora's can. You've been talking about a wide-ranging Europe. You were talking about a Europe of two wealthy people. You said that you would defend the Polish society, protect them from poverty. In my opinion, under PiS we have two wealthy Poland, we have spread out Poland. On the one hand, we have the prime minister's wife who gets a cut from the church and then sells it for 15 million PLN. [[You'd be ashamed.]] On the other hand, the Prime Minister himself now distributes parcels to Polish society... [[Voice from the hall: Shame, shame.]] ...in the form of electricity subsidies, he's giving away our money, our taxes. It is not able to ensure that energy and financial policies are conducted well, so it plays a game with Polish society. [[What are you talking about?]] Of course, as a Left, we agree to introduce this solution. We do not want Poles and Poles to have 600%, 700% or 500% raised taxes, increased gas charges. However, we do not agree that you should say that you are doing this for the good of Poles and Poles. [[Who's it for?]] [[For their polls to save themselves.]] I'm sure you've heard of lowering social expectations. This was mentioned by your Prime Minister, Prime Minister Morawiecki, when he was still at the head of the bank. He said that people need to be taught - of course they will not quote it in full, because I do not want to offend the High House - that people must be forced to work for a bowl of rice. [[Voice from the room: A spoon.]] Today is the fact that Poles and Poles don't even dream of working for a bowl of rice anymore. [[Voice from the room: Liar.]] They want to be able to pay their energy bills and buy food. [[A voice from the hall: To make the Left rule.]] Do you know, Prime Minister Sasin, the report of the Noble Package on poverty in Poland? Did you know that in the last year, more than 2 million people lived below the extreme poverty line, and compared to the previous year, 400,000 of them, including every fourth of them being a child? These tests were done before those raises. Do you realize how enormous the scale of poverty in Poland is today? [[Voice from the room: Source.]] When... A noble package. Don't you hear me? Don't argue with me. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Source, Member.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have finally introduced these solutions that the Left pointed out, because in the first weeks you have not seen, heard, and took no responsibility for your mistakes. [[Applause]] And you're not still doing it. You are talking about the European Union, about Russia, about local governments, about managers, about residents. Everyone but you. You're here to sit and smell in these benches and tell people that you're good and everyone else is bad. [[Applause]] What kind of government is it that can't take responsibility for its own actions? I don't know. [[And what do you propose of yourself?]] [[To give up power, assholes.]] Prime Minister Sasin! Get your shit together. I am glad that you followed this lead that the media pointed out to you, which was pointed out to you by the NGOs that the Left and other opposition groups pointed out to you. But it can't be like this. You know perfectly well that for the last six years of your reign, if someone were to exhibit a monument to your incompetence, then the greatest, greatest monument of your incompetence is in power. You can't do anything about it, completely. You are able to invest in 2018 in order to undress it in 2020 and to throw 4 billion PLN into the mud! [[Applause]] Four billion! And these are just direct costs. And today, what we're paying is another cost. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I submit an amendment on behalf of the Left Club to join the project also social initiatives and housing initiatives. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u570	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Club Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u571	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Our club also wants to be good for Poles and we will support this solution. You're not the only ones who'll be good. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Well, that's good.]] Because today the Poles are waiting to fix what you've ruined. [[You broke it, yeah.]] Because it's your fault, and you're looking for blame everywhere, just not at your place. [[And Pawlak was here?]] Two cases, because it is impossible to refer to this over half-hour speech by the Prime Minister in a short time. The bill, on the other hand... [[But it's for the bill.]] The bill is only partially a lifeline, because it concerns the obvious things you haven't noticed. You have tariffled certain groups of individual customers, while you have left a huge crowd of those who do not qualify, and public institutions, such as schools, daycare centers, where the proverbial warm water has already begun to run out. The one you've been talking about so often, it's warm tap water. This warm water is running out of water, and you're the ones who brought it on. But okay, there's a bill that needs to be corrected. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Give me the address.]] [[Voice from the room: I'll take the water.]] [[You guys are crazy everywhere.]] But the question is, what about businessmen? 700% No company can stand it. What about agriculture? Fertilizer prices - 400%. The question is, what's next? [[Managed by your self-government.]] Because we have to keep looking for the guilty. But is there any prospect for the future? Because next year the price of gas will also rise by the third you said you would. And the next year, too. Because we've spread these prices by law for three years for those customers we're talking about today. There's no perspective. Where's the cheap gas coming from? The question is, where's the cheaper gas coming from? Because I can't see. It was supposed to be gas diversification. I thought when you said it for eight years, you were prepared. Where'd we get that cheap gas? We're not gonna take Russian because he's bad. But then when that gas was Russian, they all installed gas boilers and somebody else. It didn't hurt. Right now, this gas is bad. Baltic Pipe - where's the gas coming from? Do we have any contracts signed? [[Voice from the room: We do.]] It's going to be the Russian gas that's coming to Germany. [[Voice from the room: Norwegian.]] Norway? We'll see. We have American gas, what's the price of this gas? It was supposed to be cheaper. Why don't we have cheaper gas, how Americans were supposed to be much cheaper. The question is, what happened, where is this policy and strategy? Energy strategy. What the Prime Minister said is terrifying to me. There was no strategy, no vision. Looking only for the guilty. Because look and I'll use the numbers here, Prime Minister. You've accelerated the transition in terms of renewable energy. A huge success - from 13% to 16% for 6 years. Maybe there's 16%. Although I'm not sure, so that's 0.5%. per year. We've got 70%. carbon energy. So if we go down 0.5% a year, how many years do we need? 140. We need 140 years to go down to zero for our economy. And that's the acceleration. And that's the vision. [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But this is impossible. What are you talking about?]] No one's forcing you to do this next year. It's expensive price, it's expensive renewable energy. Well, how is renewable energy, since today's energy from windmills at government auctions, by a government institution, is almost half as cheap as coal energy? Saying that if there's more renewable energy, we're going to pay more for emissions - we're going to pay less because we're just not going to produce, we're not going to poison air. So we should speed up the transition in terms of renewable energy, then it will be cheaper energy. Really renewable energy is cheaper. She's cheaper than an atom. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: What are you saying?]] It is even cheaper today - windmills on land or RES - than wind energy from the sea. [[Voice from the room: So how much is it?]] Some kind of strategy is needed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You don't have that strategy. And this is very sad news for Poles. Energy will cost money, gas will cost money, because you don't have an idea for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Very nice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u572	Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u573	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! A lot of Prime Minister Sasin told us here, he praised his government a lot. If I didn't know what the Prime Minister did, I'd probably believe it. But I don't believe it, and I won't believe it, because we see what these actions look like, and we see that you haven't done those things that you've been doing. You mentioned to the Prime Minister that 59% the prices of energy produced by carbon are precisely emission charges. You mentioned you wanted to block the Fit for 55 project. All right, well, be astronomical at last, block this project and say the climate package, it won't be the fees and the coal fuel will also be cheaper. [[Applause]] Take care of it. Half of poverty, as if Polish energy was actually well balanced if we had an energy mix. We just have another problem. You don't really have a long-term strategy. Four years ago, Mr Winnicki asked Minister Naimski at the committee meeting: If you do not make it from Baltic Pipe by the end of 2022, if it does not work yet, and we are running out of contract for the Jamaican pipeline, for the supply of gas from it, then what? He heard there was going to be a plan B. And that plan B still doesn't exist today. He didn't hear. I wonder if this bill we're talking about here is exactly plan B. Because if so, ladies and gentlemen, it looks like you're calling the fire department when the house is burned down. Unfortunately, it's bad for the government. This bill may be needed. We see some sense in this bill, but that doesn't mean that things like this should be handled just at the last minute and just slip from the bag to the bag. That's exactly what we don't agree to. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u574	Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, also the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u575	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Now is not the time to say theoretical things because we're dealing with a sudden leap. We understand that when you do a variety of stupid interventions, a less stupid intervention is a good intervention. We will not criticize this, Prime Minister. The obvious thing is that the European Union is responsible for this at a huge percentage. But why are we making up? Prime Minister, we're dealing with crazy people. [[Voice from the room: It's true.]] There are maniacs in the European Union, and you're saying that we're giving up on them and we're increasing that amount of renewables... They don't need to be relentless. They just need to be openly told that they're crazy people that we're not gonna give up. Indeed, everyone knew that Gazprom would try to force the West to launch Nordstream, and they did speculation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These two things, Gazprom's actions plus speculation, suddenly it jumped up 10 times. It was hard to predict. That's not what we're complaining about. I'll tell you more in the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u576	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u577	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Yeah, we're at war, we're at an energy war, but you guys, having an enemy in the east, you're fighting in the west, and that's the main problem. Not much, you sent Poles and Poles to this war with the bow and without armor, and you have proven to the Poles and Poles that you can spend money, and not necessarily make money. But first things first. Not only does rising prices on world markets cause our problems. The truth is, you've been able to do a lot of things in recent months, preparing us for this crisis, but you haven't. First of all, the PiS government has left the valuation of contracts concluded on a timely basis, just for gas, for purchasing gas at SPOT prices. Operation of current prices will always result in exposure to speculation. You Polish and Poles just iced Putin's ice skating right under his nose. Secondly, when you left the long-term valuation and switched to current settlements, you did not even enter into future contracts, which in many European countries are simply a standard. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Yeah, but that's a quarter.]] Yes, in the spring, when gas prices are lower, we could have been secured for the winter. There are contracts like this. It would be good for you to get to know each other. Third, Prime Minister: diversification, fool. The truth is, you talk a lot about it, but you don't do anything about it. [[Voice from the room: Who builds Baltic Pipe?]] [[What are you talking about?]] You guys keep making these investments, but then it turns out you're building Ostrołęka and then stripping her off. And that's the effect of your diversification, because so far all these unfinished investments don't translate into the cost of our lives. Wrestling. Not only did you monopolize the gas market in Poland, you also monopolized the gas import and storage. I talked about it today at the committee meeting. Yes, Minister, now I'll answer you quickly. If you forced gas importers to store in Poland and did not give them space in warehouses that were filled with PGNiG gas, they had no way of doing their own business and thus eliminated competition from the market. When it comes to prices in Europe, it is again a bit so that not only do you not solve problems for entrepreneurs, but today you offer them tariffs not at current prices, but at the highest ones that were at the end of the year. Question: "What is this goal and when will entrepreneurs be able to benefit from current rates?" I understand that today there is no €20 available 1MWh, but also (the bell) there is no need to present prices for €150. There's really a lot of problems. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister had half an hour to speak, and I have three minutes, so it's hard to respond to all the nonsense that... Thank you very much. ...were spoken here. [[Voice from the room: Because he is the Prime Minister.]] Yes... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: There's too much propaganda.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u578	Thank you very much, Member. Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. First Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u579	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Your speech ended with the fact that the Prime Minister had 30 minutes, half an hour, and she only had a few minutes. Member of the Commission, because the Prime Minister spoke about very important topics, important topics for all Poles, for the whole of our homeland. Prime Minister! I am very pleased that today we can debate this law, already on the report. I hope that this law, as it is foreseen, will function from 1 February and will very much affect the retention of this inflation, which is actually galloping with us. But as we are talking about what is the subject of this law, and we are talking about e.g. about gas, about companies, I also wanted to draw attention to the sale of companies. The last such sale, very significant, which can also affect the safety of Poles, was the sale of PKP Energetics by the ruling PO-PSL. And today you're saying that it doesn't affect what you've been doing. Thank you very much. ...for what's happening now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u580	Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u581	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's all clear, isn't it? Jaworzno - block for 6 billion stands. Turów - block for 4 billion stands. Ostrołęka - 2 billion in mud. 200 million penalties for Turov calculated. Just, Prime Minister, admit whether the 55 billion dollars charged for the licenses went to shit, whether you speculated on the fall in prices, played and lost 55 billion PLN to Poles on stock exchanges. Admit what it was like. But Poles need to know that the rise in gas and electricity prices is the fault of Russians and Germans, because the government, dear Poles, tells you so. And the fact that they managed Polish assets so well that they brought it to such a state and for them 200 million is just like 200 billion PLN, don't count it, everything is fine. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u582	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u583	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! I'd like to ask you a few questions. First of all, today we have this panic and we have to do something, because actually even with the lowest increases, 54% it is not a bagatela, how Poles have to pay, it for many families is really a huge blow. Time has already been lost, the next few months. But what in the future, the question is, what in the future? What will the energy mix look like when it comes to gas? Because we're gonna need more and more gas, we're gonna have to have carbon, we want or we don't want to, we're gonna replace it. Are there any long-term contracts signed? Because it's said today that we're going to have mixes, that we're going to have a diversification of deliveries. But do we know who the gas is coming from? Because we can have infrastructure, but that gas in the pipe will matter physically. 'Cause today's Jamal's pipeline, too, but it's empty. He stands empty, and in the old days (the bell) beautifully flowed gas with it. So the question arises: Do we have a vision for a further perspective on gas supply? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u584	Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u585	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Again. It's very easy to criticize people for not doing something. There was certainly no way to predict what was going to happen. Hong Kong companies knew that the Russians would play to force the West. You have not guessed this, you have not played... this speculation. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. But please, Prime Minister, do not say that they are responsible for inflation. The inflation is another pair of galoshes. After all, Prime Minister, if we're paying people more gas, where do we get that money, right? We pay taxes on people, prices go up, and that's where inflation comes from. Perhaps it would even be better for people to pay more and see how much this European Union costs and to believe in this whole fight against global warming. I demand that we fight against global warming so that we finally understand that this is stupid. Thank you for your attention. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u586	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u587	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today the Law and Justice government is trying to play an angel of salvation to save Poles from high gas prices, but this is rather an angel of revenge, which will lead to the fact that these gas prices will be even higher in a moment. Because the truth is, you've delayed various initiatives, including Baltic Pipe, which could make it cheaper to get gas. Today it's difficult. Instead of looking for the best distribution solutions, you are preparing PGNiG to absorb it by Orlen, and this does not encourage maximizing profits for citizens, minimizing bills. What about 6 billion PLN? The Russians returned PLN 6 billion to Poland for overpriced gas prices, and you hid the PLN 6 billion. Where are they? Why didn't they go back to the citizens? [[Voice from the room: They've hit.]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: They've hit.]] And why do you use the highest possible stakes (the bell) when the gas has sunk since spring and there are significant signals that it will be even cheaper? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The gas's gone down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u588	Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u589	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why are there empty benches of the Civic Platform today when we adopt such a very important law of Prime Minister Jack Sasin, which protects millions of Poles from the price of natural gas, from the blackmail of Vladimir Putin? [[Applause]] Because you would hear the truth about how the godfather of this gas crisis Donald Tusk delayed the construction of the gasport, stopped Baltic Pipe, increased its dependence on Russian gas by 2 billion m3... [[What are you saying? Don't lie to me.]] ...and for 1825 days as President of the European Council, he has done absolutely nothing to stop Nord Stream 2. [[Applause]] And I'll tell you, it's gonna make you lose the election. You will lose the election, but I will not be surprised how Donald Tusk in the program: working for a friend will be offered by Vladimir Putin to work in some Russian energy company. [[That's rude.]] And I'll tell you honestly, I'm gonna buy Donald Tusk a one-way ticket to Moscow because that's where he belongs. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[We'll buy you a ticket.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u590	Tomasz Nowak, Civic Coalition. Mr Tomasz Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u591	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[The mask is for you not to spit.]] Some pitiful speeches should not be commented on. They're just below any level. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! The problem I have reported is the problem of statements that housing communities had to fill in so that they could be classified as individual recipients. The first option did not take into account the percentage share of enterprises, small companies within the community. It only appeared on January 5th. PGNiG corrected this error and on 5 January they could easily fill out the statement so that it could result in a safe and secure way for the housing communities and that they were not condemned to pursue claims against them by, for example, PGNiG or the relevant services. So if you're looking for bugs, you really find them most often in your home, but you don't admit it. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But that is not what we are talking about, Mr.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u592	Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u593	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister, I'm interested in the fact that when you found out, heard, realized that educational institutions, Polish schools received higher gas bills? [[That's it. That's it.]] It's about the gas bill that they heat up, which gives them hot water for use. When this happened, what was the rapid response in this area and to what extent? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Great. Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u594	Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u595	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are probably many reasons for price increases, among others. The transition to settlement of the spot, long-term negligence, ours and yours, Prime Minister, to be clear. What we can do today is first of all unlock wind energy, reverse these bad solutions for prosumer energy. I ask today, Prime Minister: What about these private DPS? What about private schools? Will they be treated as such? What about farmers who have gas-fired henhouses? What about agricultural dryers, which are also for gas? And I have an idea for you, Prime Minister: take Mr. Tusk on that plane. Go and get something together for the Poles. [[Applause]] [[Where's Pawlak?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u596	Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u597	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Since the new year, the lowest national has grown because you have approved its growth. There has also been an increase in the minimum rate for entrepreneurs, which is, of course, also due to this increase in the lowest national level. The price of electricity has increased. The price of gas has increased. And now, tonight, you're fixing what's been collapsed a little bit. Only yesterday I heard Prime Minister Morawiecki say that he asks very much that prices be reduced by 5%. as soon as this VAT is reduced. I'm a little worried that your propaganda department is going to want to pin any increase on entrepreneurs, on people who are trying to survive with their business. I would like the Prime Minister to stand here and say that the gas increases will make the prices rise and it is not the fault of the entrepreneurs, it is yours or yours (the bell), I do not know, the Russians, anyone, but not the entrepreneurs who... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u598	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u599	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Two more questions. Just as you did not secure futures to secure gas prices for Poles and Poles, companies were late in buying ETS certificates. After all, at a time when these certificates were really cheaper, and it was already known that funds and banks would be admitted to the stock exchange, and everyone predicted that these prices would increase, the Treasury companies could buy and secure these certificates for many months to come. They know exactly how much they need, because they know how much coal they produce in their package. Why didn't you? If these companies weren't managed by Miesiewicze, but by decent, professional managers, we wouldn't have these problems today. And the second question is, why are you covering this whole COVID fund bill if it has nothing to do with COVID? [[♪ The bell ♪]] 20 billion PLN extra non-budget costs, 30 billion guarantee of the State Treasury. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u600	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u601	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister, I wanted to ask you why in the PGNiG price list the retail increase in gas prices by 700%, since 25% PGNiG produces, excavates itself. Around 25% brings LNG to Poland and the others, about 50%, are imports from Russia. Then why in the price list? Did it cost your own extraction by 700%... [[Yeah, that's right.]] ...whether the gas from the United States and Qatar was 700% higher ? Where did these prices come from? How did PGNiG account for the PLN 6200 million that he received from arbitration, for which the money was transferred? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: They have gone to bribe voters.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u602	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u603	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! In your speech, you said there were 90% in the portfolio of long-term contracts six years ago. , now we have 60% And that in six years it's a success. But I just read on the web pages that in December 2015. - I am not a spokesperson for the Platform - gas prices fell four times, the inhabitants were then supposed to pay 8 PLN less in the household. What are the reasons - apart from those called Russian gas and the European Union - for such a drastic rise in gas prices? And the second question: What is it like - art. 4 of the Act refers to complementary witnessing for persons unable to exist independently. Prime Minister, this committee has already arranged today, this is in print report 1901. Not much, we even assumed that there would be annual valorization (the bell) of pensions and pensions. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But the price of gas in the markets has really increased seven times.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u604	Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u605	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I wanted to ask who negotiated the current ETS settlement period from Poland in 2018. What kind of government was that? Ladies and gentlemen, I was then involved in this process as a Member of the European Parliament. My achievement is that Poland received 30% Free heating allowances and this was not a government proposal, it was my proposal which I carried out by the European Parliament. Secondly, who agreed to Fit for 55, which is to reduce emissions... [[Mr. Morawiecki.]] ...by 2030 by 55% ? After all, these are the conclusions of the December European Council... [[You don't even know what you're signing.]] ... 2020 Who signed this? Who agreed to this? Prime Minister of the current government. Who has also agreed to zero emissions... [[Your Prime Minister.]] ...until 2050? It is also a decision of the current government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much are the ETS costs according to the experts? 1/4, 50% gas prices. And that is the truth, Prime Minister. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u606	Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u607	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I was approached about this and other local government laws by me from the constituency, among others. Mayor Pelplin. This is a municipality with a lot of wind power plants, such power plants must be compensated for, for example. Gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, gas, But they also have another problem, because it is in the name of ecology that they have put on gas heating in many, many inhabitants. And now they have a problem, because once these laws are passed, even if they are introduced in this form, their prices will increase by up to 100% in terms of heating. I have a question: What are we supposed to tell such people? What are we supposed to say as parliamentarians to local governments, to residents who, after implementing this law, are going to see huge increases in their bills? [[Liars, little ones.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u608	Mr Paweł Zalewski, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u609	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have all listened attentively to the words of Prime Minister Sasin and I firmly believe that it was an anti-Union exposition. No wonder the Confederation applauds and is delighted with it. [[Applause]] Anti-EU and contrary to the interests of Poland, this EU policy is unfortunately so. I do not believe that the European Union is ideal, and that climate policy is not ideal, but you first agree to various kinds of solutions, so that you can later appear before the nation and say that you will block them. I have a very specific question, Prime Minister: How will the Polish government block the package of solutions provided for in this Fit for 55 programme? After all, this will require the creation of a blocking minority, and after all, you have no allies in the European Union, to which you have led the position of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u610	Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u611	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You're telling me who's responsible for the rise in energy and gas prices. A concrete example, Prime Minister. I am a Member from western Wielkopolska. You're using economic sabotage. Entrepreneurs from the district of Wolsztyn, the district of Grodzisk, where the gas is extracted from our Wielkopolska mines, do you know what a raise they received? Do you know? 700% January. Companies: Jantex, employing 150 people, Agro Team Rakoniewice, who employs 80 employees, Max Belęcin, employing another 70 employees, received 700 percent increase. This is absolutely outrageous. This situation you must and you should fix, because if you do not, these companies will be doomed to bankruptcy, and the gas comes from our large Polish mines. The same goes for my Newcomer housing cooperative. The Newcomers' PEC twice requested that the URE finally accept the possibility of protecting the population's toll (the bell). It wasn't done. What's the raise for today? 300%, at 700%. Act, Prime Minister. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] I'll leave you the handwriting... Please really make a decision to act. [[Applause]] [[There is a mode of interpellation and parliamentary enquiries.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u612	Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u613	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr Sasin and Mr PiS are wrong when it comes to introducing Poland into the era of energy security, because giving up Russian gas and long-term contracts leads us towards more expensive Norwegian gas, more expensive liquefied gas, our own gas in some molecule. We're gonna buy gas on stock exchanges, we're gonna bring it back from Holland and Germany. This is how it's gonna end. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr President, please return to your seat. [[I'm not doing anything.]] We're not able to switch 60%. supply of gas to any other contract, such as buying gas on the stock exchange. If the government doesn't get smart, sit down with the Russians to negotiate a long-term deal on this case, we'll meet here next year, and there won't be anything to blame for next year's situation, because we'll be in a black hole. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u614	Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u615	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's been a lot of so-called stuff going on here. Good Uncle Donald Tusk, with some breaths on his back. And what are the facts, Your Honour? The acceptance of the EU energy and climate pact by the government of Donald Tusk and the coalitionant of the PSL has become a disgraceful crowning of the policy of kneeling to Brussels technocrats. The current situation is a consequence of Donald Tusk's exceptional indolence when he was Prime Minister of Government, Head of the European Council and Head of the European People's Party. I am talking about indolence, because I do not think that they were aware of actions against the Polish state, actions which can be called treason of everything that was connected with Poland's policy of determining CO2 emissions since 1990. Why did Donald Tusk agree to depart from the Kyoto Protocol and to calculate emissions since 1990 by agreeing for 2005? After all, Poland has reduced its CO2 emissions by 32% since 2005 and we have been the leader of climate policy. Why Donald Tusk [[♪ The bell ♪]] with a light hand crossed the entire path of Polish climate policy? Betrayed or was he just extremely incompetent? That's what you ask Donald Tusk, Your Honor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u616	Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u617	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today, we are once again working on a bill to undo your incompetence. You did not think in time about individual gas recipients, about Polish households, so people before New Year got information about monstrous increases. You have such replacements: and it's Tusk's fault, and it's Trzaskowski's fault, and it's the local government's fault. It's all your fault, but it's not your fault. Or maybe to take another step, apologize to the people, correct this law, which is hopeless, which you are introducing... [[Voice from the room: Apologize.]] ...save problems for small entrepreneurs, heads of welfare homes, hospitals. They're already wondering how to make ends meet, and what happens after those horrendous gas price increases you're gonna give them? Accept our bill... [[What's that?]] ...that project we've proposed to you about helping entrepreneurs. They do not deserve the raises you give them, nor your evil governments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u618	Mr Robert Obaz, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u619	Prime Minister Sasin! Listening to you, I don't know if you're a member of the Russian or German government. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] 19 November 2018 at the editor Mazurka you said: The price of electricity is now borne by the Minister of State Assets, Jacek Sasin. November 2018: No one will feel price increases. November 2019: There will be no increase in electricity prices. May 2020: Compensation? It's a project that's ready. December 2020: No compensation. August 2021: The increase in electricity price is inevitable. January 2022 - increase from tens to several hundred percent, about gas prices not to mention. Natural gas at a lower price can be counted on by the largest landowner, i.e. the Catholic Church, drawing money from EU subsidies, from the state, through the Church Fund... [[Voice from the hall: And so immediately to the Church.]] ...and it won't be used by Mrs. Agnieszka, who runs the bakery on the street. Okrai in Jelenia Góra, Mr. Arthur and his wife from the bakery on the street. It's a warm bell or Mrs. Joanna from the bakery on the street. Junior high school. Mr. Marshal, why don't you use the lower gas prices... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u620	Mr Paweł Chezernaker, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u621	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The opposition has repeatedly tried to oppose the government and the local government, but today it is worth to emphasize and strongly say that this is a law for which Polish local governments are waiting. Tariff prices, such as for individual recipients, will include hospitals, clinics, social assistance units, schools, kindergartens, crèches, cultural operators or voluntary firefighters. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! No matter what you say, when you swear to reality, the rule of law and justice is a holistic, uniform approach to the state. [[Applause]] There was no such approach in your governments, and even today, in opposition, you have repeatedly opposed the government and the government. I repeat: this is a law for which Polish local communities are waiting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u622	Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u623	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! We can see how much it costs, but can the Prime Minister see it too? Gas bills in Poznan have increased by 10% in some houses , in others by 100% And in the next one, it's even more than that. This unfair difference indicates the chaos in energy, which you totally can't handle. This situation is due to the fact that some have signed contracts with PGNiG and others with brokers, making their bills grow much faster. This is completely absurd. The rise in energy prices is killing local governments and their inhabitants. Is this your conscious policy or just your inability? Prime Minister! Do you have a plan to eliminate these differences so that the fees are equal to everyone? Do you want to keep these raises real or just on paper? How will the Polish and Poles plan their expenses for the next months? How are more companies supposed to avoid bankruptcy? This bill isn't enough and it's too late. The energy transition will only be successful if it is well planned and fair. Otherwise, we will not escape the cost of climate disaster or high energy prices. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u624	Mr Paweł Krutul, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u625	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister Sasin! Why is it so bad if we have, as you say, a resourceful government that has been getting off its knees for six years and managing a strong country in the European Union, according to you? The truth is, moths, you're up to speed on energy. You set an example for this by bragging that you're building a power plant in Ostrołęka. So? Nothing. Almost PLN 2 billion went down the drain because of this investment. The question should be asked: Who really benefited here? Who were those people involved with, what kind of party? Perhaps the Prime Minister would like to respond to Polish taxpayers? One thing's for sure. Retirists and pensioners, lonely people will receive gas bills or electricity bills and will have to choose whether to buy food and medicines and sit in a cold apartment or have a warm apartment, but not have food because of horrible, close to 90% inflation for food. One thing is certain: under the rule of law and justice, they will have to give up one of these things - either heating or food. This has given Polish people and Poles Law and Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u626	Mrs Małgorzata Golińska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u627	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Opposite! In the year in which the imports of gas from the East will finally end on the basis of a negative Yamal contract, you accuse us of monopolization. The year the Baltic Pipe project starts, you're accusing us of blocking the Baltic Pipe project. To the government that wants the reform of the ETS, the government that criticises the MSR mechanism agreed by the Platform Government and PSL, you are once again accusing anti-EUism, and this happens when we are fighting for Poles, for their wallets and for their future. So the question arises: How far can you go in this lie of yours, in the war against the PiS, using Poles? How far can you go in this lie, underestimating the Poles and thinking that they will not see this lie? This bill is the answer to their concerns. Vote for her instead of criticizing her. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u628	Mr Artur Łącki, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u629	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When I look at what you're doing, what you're doing, I think of Alexander Fredry's words, who said, "Socialism is equal to everyone." He's gonna rub his nose. He'll strangle the rich tomorrow and the poor the day after tomorrow. Polish Load becomes a nail for the coffin of Polish entrepreneurship, Polish small family businesses. Most of them will lose on it. And it's not a tax reduction, it's a taxpayer's looting. The best way to see it is to look at your salary next month. That's what I'm really happy about. [[This is a concrete debate, sir?]] They lose self-employed, they lose small, micro- and medium-sized enterprises. And this is the salt of this land. These are the people who make 60%. Polish GDP. Your horrendous prices for gas and, of course, inflation have come to this Polish Load. [[Do you know where you are?]] Mr. Marshal! In the beginning there was the slogan of God, honor, homeland. After you will be nothing but debt, horror and expensive. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u630	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u631	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! It's supposed to be clean, and it's messy. It's supposed to be okay, and it's bad. [[This isn't the debate. Nor does the Member know what kind of debate this is?]] Ice cream, higher prices. You are the first government in history to reduce wages for Poles and Poles at the beginning of the year. For 30 years, no one's done it. Today you say you're gonna patch the holes you've made. The gas is more expensive by a few dozen percent. In shops products are more expensive by 30%, 60% , and even 90%. Plus, it's the biggest inflation in 20 years. You can't scream it when you say you're fixing something. You fix that much, and you ruin it. The policy of law and justice is that it's gonna ruin something first and then try to fix something. Is there any other way he can do it? Try to talk to the opposition, reach for good solutions, and introduce a law that will help everyone, not hurt most people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u632	Katarzyna Czochara, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u633	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr President, the opposition has had its time and has shown what it can do. I'm sure you know exactly how our country worked. When there was a crisis, some Members proposed sluts and mirabelles. Prime Minister! I wanted to express my heartfelt, warm thanks from the inhabitants of Opole for this bill, for their support and for responding to situations where Poles need it. [[Applause]] There were needs when the Civic Platform and the PSL were running, but you didn't see it. All you cared about was your own business. One of the Members spoke about the problem. The biggest problem of Poland was the governments of the Civic Platform and PSL. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. And today we are paying a high price for these governments in terms of gas, electricity... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...and food prices. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u634	Mrs Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u635	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! When there will be support for entrepreneurs whose gas prices are rising by 300, 400, 500% And more? When? That's what we're asking. The project is complex. And now the truth about your governments. When were you telling the truth? When you promised to compensate in February 2020 and didn't do it? Then when today we pay the penalty for Turin, already 50 million euros, is that 200 million? When were you telling the truth? When were you beneficiaries of 60 billion CO certificates? When you took a six billion return from Gazprom and didn't give it to the Poles? You signed the Fit for 55 and you don't have the blocking majority. Today, ladies and gentlemen... In 2008, the Council [[♪ The bell ♪]] President Kaczyński signed the Lisbon Agreement. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left Club. It's also signed... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left Club. Madame, what are you doing there... You're just lying, Prime Minister. [[Applause]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Don't lie to me. [[But that's what we're asking you not to lie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u636	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Sasin! The flower shop in which the Voivodeship Office in Poznań supplies flowers will close soon, because it will not withstand a 600% increase in gas prices. You'll have no place to buy flowers for different celebrations. Prime Minister! You have been translating for several weeks, government members have been translating drastic, monstrous gas increases with the European Union's climate package, ETS. [[Because it's true.]] Why didn't you say that the ETS remained entirely in the budget of the Polish state? Why didn't you say that the government should have spent at least half of the resources of the ETS on the modernisation and energy transformation of Poland, on the modernisation of transmission networks? Then perhaps it would not be necessary to eliminate in practice (the bell) from 1 April of photovoltaics, which allowed Poles to become independent from energy price increases. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u637	Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Law and Justice. [[Mr. Sasin had more than 25 minutes, and we can't...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u638	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! From this whole discussion, one conclusion is that the opposition is in favour or even against. Ladies and gentlemen, February 2015 At Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, how did you talk to the people? By bullets from cops, by beating cold water. Ladies and gentlemen, consider your actions. [[And you guys are doing the same thing today.]] First of all, this bill is not the only law that saves the Poles' budget, and this is not the last law. Prime Minister, tell me what costs the government will incur, the state budget in connection with this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u639	Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u640	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: Do you even know what is happening in Poland today? Do you know that for several weeks Polish families, clinics, hospitals, households, but also Polish companies, small and medium-sized companies, but also family companies, which have almost a million in Poland, receive huge increases from PGNiG for gas? Not 15, 20, 30%, but 500, 700, 900%. [[We know, and that's what we're reacting to.]] Do you know? You're making a bill that doesn't completely apply to these companies. What do you say to an entrepreneur who pays 5,000 in one month? zł for gas, and next month he will pay 40 thousand. Evil for gas? Why aren't you using the bill that the Civic Coalition filed, which saves Polish companies? Why don't you want to take advantage of this project? [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: At whose expense?]] Why don't you do something for people who just lose their lives? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u641	Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u642	The amnesia of today's opposition is already reaching the zenith, because the state in its servitude love for Russian gas even forgets that it was the Left who had already blocked the idea of using Norwegian deposits and diversifying from the period after AWS. But then you also joined the Civic Platform and today in the European Union you are serving false messages instead of discussing the dangers of Russian blackmail, [[Applause]] And in the European Union, all you really want to do is rely on your own false claims of pseudo-government. So it is for you that it is a role to go back to that and to correct climate policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Because of this pseudo-government of money, there is no Union.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u643	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u644	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You've ruled for over six years. Whatever you do, you can stand on your head... [[You'll always be criticizing.]] ...you will not be able to convince that you are not responsible for what is happening today in Poland, for this cost and for everything that is related to it. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we've heard an hour of propaganda and not a minute of strategy. The PiS government keeps saying, "We're going to help Poles." But, ladies and gentlemen, today listen to what a beautiful saying is, what Poles say: Don't ask what the PiS government can do for you, ask how to prevent it. Prime Minister, we know that many things on this government don't depend, but two things you can really do and I have two proposals for you. First, freeze gas prices for everyone, as the French Government did, at a certain level, also for entrepreneurs, or else you will slaughter them. The second thing (the bell) - get European funds, unlock European funds for our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Please address Mr. Tusk.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u645	Mr Marek Suski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u646	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo! The Polish government takes care of Polish citizens. I wanted to make an amendment to this bill. We also want to extend these reference tariffs to social cooperatives referred to in the Social Cooperatives Act of 27 April. That's the amendment I'm making, Mr. Marshal, on your hands. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. As for this debate, the questions that have been raised, I have a question for the opposition: when will you start defending Polish interests in the EU? [[Applause]] Because you ask what you can do. It is enough, ladies and gentlemen, for all our MEPs to support Poland in its actions against this madness, which causes price increases, and for you to stop writing resolutions to starve Poland (the bell). Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u647	Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u648	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Do not tell Poles that when a problem arises, it is the fault of the Polish opposition or the EU, because it is absurd. It is you who rule in Poland and should take full responsibility for this. For mistakes and negligence. For several days now, Prime Minister, Mrs Aneta of Sosnowiec, running a health clinic for 6,000. patients, crying and sleeping at night because she got information about an increase in gas price by 700%. This should never happen. Health care facilities should be surrounded by a protective umbrella, especially on the eve of the fifth wave of COVID. These people must stop being afraid. What can you tell Mrs. Catherine of Jaworzna or Mr. Maciej of Sosnowiec who got a few hundred percent raise? Today they ask what to live from, how to pay their bills, and how to live in this situation. [[Applause]] [[And the answer is this project.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u649	Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u650	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo! I'd like to recall a few facts from history, because human memory is fleeting. First fact: we stopped the privatisation of companies, including in the PGE group. Second fact: the government of Beata Szydło opened a terminal to receive liquefied gas. Third fact: the implementation of the gas link project with Norway. [[Applause]] We are in the years 2007-2009. There was a similar discussion in the Seym. I'd like to remind you of something. During this period, i.e. 2007 gas price increased by 60%. One of the Members asked how much the citizen would pay. Price in 2007 - 880 PLN, price in the beginning of 2009-1500 PLN. And the last fact. What did you do about it? Nothing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u651	Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u652	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A riddle for the Minister. No individual electricity customer will pay more for electricity in the future. Poles will not feel a change in the price of energy. The revenue from the sale of allowances will go to the Energy Efficiency Fund. The second source of the fund's revenue will be controlled by the State of the companies. 2019 - there are different ways to avoid increases. I said the farms wouldn't pay, and I'm maintaining it. 15 November 2021 - increases in electricity prices are necessary, but we have adopted solutions to avoid drastic increases in gas prices. There's no way that height is that high! A riddle. Who said that? January 2022 - increase in gas prices. 3 months later 700% That's what you said, Mr. Sasin. But three months later, you say this: Tusk's wine, Putin's wine, EU wine. Flying over the cuckoo nest. [[Applause]] I ask: How much money has been collected by the Energy Efficiency Fund for 3 years. Come out here and say it. [[Applause]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u653	Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[I'm showing you how you lie and lie.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Well, that's the kind of messengers you've got that I can handle. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u654	Minister Sasin! I'm talking to you. Aren't you ashamed to tell such things from this podium? You know very well that the Polish government agreed on a new VAT directive on 7 December 2020, which excludes a zero VAT solution for gas. And you're telling me how great you guys are gonna be here, there's gonna be zero VAT on gas. You are proud of the gas terminal in Świnoujście, although you know very well that the government of Donald Tusk initiated, built, continued to do so by Prime Minister Kopacz, and you have only cut the ribbon and signed. You're talking about renewable energy sources. You're the ones who slaughtered the wind energy. [[Applause]] I wanted to ask. [[♪ The bell ♪]] PGNiG boasts of the full filling of gas warehouses. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. Why can't we use them... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...to correct the gas price rises? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u655	Madam, you're done. [[There's no voice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u656	Prime Minister Sasin! You've been talking for over half an hour, and you should be talking for a minute. You should say sorry and embarrassed and embarrassed to go back to your seat. [[Applause]] You should apologize for this legislation, for writing the law on your knees, and you should apologize for the fact that thousands of Poles, residents of housing communities and cooperatives have learned that they have to pay a few hundred percent more for gas. Finally, you should apologize to all the entrepreneurs for these increases. Mostly micro-, macro-entrepreneurs and self-employed, because mostly they pay taxes that finance your salary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u657	This list of Members has been exhausted. Mr Jacek Sasin, Vice President of the Council of Ministers, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister, Prime Minister. [[Applause]] [[Again?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u658	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address Mrs Skowronska: if you did not want me to perform, you should not ask questions... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Prime Minister, let's be honest, there were no questions, there were lies.]] ...unless it was most of you, I have such an impression, only to show off or ignorance of the provisions of this law which was submitted, either by not accepting the basic facts, or by ignorance, because most of these statements unfortunately sounded as if they were dictated by such circumstances. A few things, on the other hand, certainly need to be clarified, and perhaps it would be good to make it sound here. Firstly, it is for all of you who have regretted these high increases for hospitals, schools and other institutions - that is why, ladies and gentlemen, there is this law, and therefore support it. [[Applause]] All you have to do is back her up. This problem, which you see, we also saw and saw earlier than you did, because your bill, which you made and which was cited here, covered only residential premises and only communities and cooperatives, but did not deal with hospitals, did not deal with schools. We have seen this problem, and we have prepared this bill at an express rate and filed it in Parliament. [[Applause]] Support this bill. Next line. The issue of increases for entrepreneurs was very often addressed. Ladies and gentlemen, decide on something. You are accusing us of wanting polexitu, you are saying that we want Poland out of the European Union. Mr Zalewski goes out to the speaker and talks about some anti-EU speeches, and you are calling us today from this speaker to brutally trample on EU law. [[Applause]] So, what's it like? Do you want to leave the Union or do we want to? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] After all, you should know that there is such a thing as the Second Gas Directive, which explicitly states that there is no possibility of tariffing - in general there is no possibility of tariffing. What's next? There is a judgment of the TSUE, yes, the TSUE, which to you is holiness, such an indication that whatever it says, it is the truth revealed. The judgment of the TSUE of 2015 prohibited tariffing for companies, specifically indicated that companies could not be taxed. He allowed tariffs for individual customers and other socially important players - yes, socially important - for a certain period of time. [[Applause]] And from this pick, we use this gate today. On the other hand, if you want us to tariff entrepreneurs too, then convince the majority that rules Europe today, the European People's Party above all, your party. After all, your chairman, Donald Tusk, is the President of the European People's Party. Have Mrs. von der Leyen change that law. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] French. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you read with understanding, because you can see that the simplest texts are a problem. The French have indeed introduced tariffs outside companies, and what is here about compensation, Mr President, please read carefully, really, and do not compromise yourself. What is written about compensations concerns a system of compensation for companies that sell gas, which is exactly what we do in this bill, compensation for PGNiG and for gas suppliers for the fact that they have to pay for those supplies that are tariff-based. Really, all you have to do is understand and not talk nonsense about this lecturer. In view of some basic respect for this House, let us use reality rather than nonsense. [[Applause]] Mr Kasprzak, I am surprised by these statements, as former Deputy Minister of Economy at the time when Mr Waldemar Pawlak was Deputy Prime Minister, when these gas contracts were signed so price-deficitly for Poland, says here that - I understood this statement so much, unless you wanted to say otherwise, but so it fell - 100% energy in Poland should be from RES. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Indeed, it is somewhat consistent with what the new German government has announced that they are already giving up on coal and gas and atom. I don't know what they're gonna take that energy out of. How do you imagine we'll be 100%? they drew from RES in a situation where everyone knows that RES is a good source of energy, but very uncertain, because when the wind doesn't blow, the sun doesn't exist, it's hard to gain that energy. There's no such experiment as you're proposing today. The question is, what's next, how we want to diversify the gas supply. I'll tell you what. Since 2023, i.e. since the expiry of the Yamal contract with Russia, 10 billion m3 of gas delivered via Baltic Pipe. At the moment we conclude the contract, PGNiG finishes contracting deliveries from Norway, with Norwegian deposits, partly of its own, because it partially invested in these deposits, bought deposits from which it will be able to extract gas, partly it will be gas from other suppliers. 10 billion m3 Baltic Pipe, 8.3 billion m3 Gasport in Świnoujście and please do not tell me that this is a concept or an idea, or the implementation of the Civic Platform. You delayed the construction of this gas-port, and you weren't the ones who wanted to build this gas-port. Thanks to the fact that we did this and made this investment, we managed to bring it to an end. 3.5 billion m3 of gas that is domestic mining and finally Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry thanks to prevention The prevention has ensured that 100% of the benefits are made available to the public. from a floating gasport in Klaipeda. This is another 1.5 billion m3 of gas. In addition, new investments, which are already at a very serious stage of preparation. First of all, it's about another gas-port. This time swimming in Gdansk. It is intended to be put into service for the years 2026 and 2027. It will provide us from 4.5 to 6 billion m3 of gas. If these figures are applied to the consumption that we have right now, which is about 20 billion m3 of gas per year, you can see that we are able to Even with a certain allowance It's our demand to satisfy. Don't worry. We're taking care of it. This is extremely important to us. We will certainly ensure that in Poland there is no shortage of gas, unlike what is happening today in other countries of Western Europe, where the gas is missing, where the warehouses I have just talked about are filled with only 50%. I am surprised, and this is a sad statement that actually none of you who performed here had the courage to say yes, right. Indeed, Putin's manipulations and the wrong European policy have led to this price surge. It is easier to come and accuse the Polish government. Besides... it's like Korwin-Mikke. [[This policy was signed by Lech Kaczyński.]] Yes, sir, indeed. Don't talk nonsense, Member, really. [[Game in the O.R.]] Once again, I call on you, through respect for this House, at least a little bit, to get a little closer to the truth. Don't tell me that. Ladies and gentlemen! As I just said, it is a pity that you see the problem only in Poland, in the Polish government. I know that you would like to wipe out this government no matter what it does, no matter what people think, no matter how citizens choose and no matter how they decide. From the beginning, you've been doing this policy for six years, but you lack the courage. Even then... The thing is completely obvious. The point is to admit, that it is not the Polish government that is responsible for this matter, moreover, that the Polish government is doing everything possible today, bearing enormous costs in order to compensate Poles for the consequences of this policy, which is outside Poland. If there were such voices here today, Members in the Polish Sejm went out and said that we blamed Putin, Putin is innocent, Russia is innocent, Russia is great, but we can't deal with it, it gives it, ladies and gentlemen, a very sad image of the Polish Parliament. [[Who said that?]] It shows the lack of care in this House for truth and elementary honesty. Ladies and gentlemen! There was a discussion here about when the decisions that we are suffering today were taking place. You say it was 2020, 2018. You are trying to burden us today - this is a permanent method - decisions you made when you were in power in Poland. The key to this was the decision of Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz. This must be said very clearly. It is about the moment when the Prime Minister agreed to give up veto rights in climate policy. Wherever there is a change of energy mix in accordance with the European Treaty, there is a veto right. Prime Minister Kopacz agreed to recognise that climate policy has no impact on the energy mix. This is actually the beginning of our great troubles. Everything that we are dealing with today has its origin and its origin in this decision of Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz. You're not gonna get away with this. You can hold everyone else responsible, but you can't run away from it. [[Lech Kaczyński signed earlier.]] If anyone wants to take a fair look at this, they won't have any doubts about it. Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz then she actually assured that she was a great success, because she gained the opportunity to receive so-called Polish companies. Free certificates. Yes, she only got these certificates so that by 2030 Polish companies will have to pay more than PLN 200 billion to buy these certificates in foreign markets, on stock exchanges that are in the west of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, this energy transformation should take place in such a way that Poland, as a country that really needs the biggest investments, will receive money that the Polish economy and Polish companies will receive money for this transformation, but as a result of the decisions that your Prime Minister made, this transformation, these financial flows are going the other way. Countries that have already undergone an energy transformation get money from us, from the country that needs this energy transformation and these investments. So fair is the mechanism that applies. If you want to defend it, you really don't have any argument about it. Indeed, then there is only screaming, remaining emotions and remaining saying things that have little to do with reality. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen. I wanted to say that our intention - of course, if this were possible, we discussed it - is to include tariffs for all customers, including companies. As I said - I have explained this already - we are not able to do this because of the EU's conditions, because of the directives and judgments of the TSUE. If you can convince your political allies in Brussels, then we will of course thank you. Today, EU policy is very tough and is actually opposed to this type of action. I am surprised that you are calling here from this podium to take such action. The last thing I'm gonna say is about the laws that you've made that you've shown here. I would really be very economical in your place when it comes to reminding you of these acts at all, because they are embarrassing. These projects are embarrassing. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] The first law concerns cooperatives and housing communities. Ladies and gentlemen, you have not seen what I have said, the problem of hospitals, schools, other institutions that we have covered by this law. That's first of all. Secondly, you wanted to treat in the same way in this law both residential and service premises or where business activities are carried out, in cooperatives or in communities. I've already said it's against EU law... [[Since when do you deal with EU law?]] ...but in addition, ladies and gentlemen, you would have introduced a strange construction: such differentiation of entrepreneurs depending on where they operate. Those who have premises in communities, and those who have premises in cooperatives, would get a fare, and those who operate in the pavilion next door would no longer get that fare. What does this have to do with a competitive economy? This is something that would actually be advisable as something that violates the principle of the free market. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes, we are also talking about that, sir. It's worth getting to know your projects. Finally, the third thing I also mentioned is any lack of compensation system for gas suppliers, which means the rapid bankruptcy of all these companies and above all PGNiG, and total chaos in the gas supply market. This is your responsibility for what's going on in this case. The adoption of this law would be catastrophic (The Bell), and ultimately would lead to the fact that gas would not flow to Polish houses at all. At the end, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I will say that this new law that you have just filed for entrepreneurs, as I said, is completely incompatible with EU law, is anti-EU - so it is you, I understand, that you are anti-EU and I ask you not to accuse us of it - and finally without any real financial basis. You say the cost of this bill is PLN 2 billion. We've calculated the cost. The additional cost for PGNiG is at least PLN 50 billion. How are you gonna make it up to me? Or is this another bill you want to bankrupt PGNiG? I must say that your persistence in these actions, in order to bankrupt the largest Polish companies, is indeed impressive. Whose business is that in? Because it is certainly not in the interests of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u659	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Sport and Tourism - Kamila Bortniczuk (prints No. 1844 and 1909). I ask the representative of the applicants of Mr Mark Owowa to state the reasons for the proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u660	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members of the Civic Coalition, I have the honour to present a motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Sport and Tourism, Mr Kamila Bortniczuk. The beginning of a new era in Polish sport - yes Łukasz Mejza on 26 October Ub. R. promoted the duo Bortniczuk-Mejza in the newly restored Ministry of Sport and Tourism. A few weeks earlier, slightly mysteriously, before the Prime Minister's office he announced: This is how the story of a very important project begins for Lubuskie - a project that many have spoken about and which I will implement. Meanwhile, all those who knew the author of these words observed: It is better that this project never begin. I had the chance to find out myself when I was in Krosno Odrzański in June Ub. Then I learned about what everyone, the whole of Poland, learned a few months ago. At that time, people were simply ashamed of Mesa. A week ago, the whole of Poland saw and heard the words: "Sorry for the mesa. But from here I would like to tell the people of Krosna Odrzański and the Lubuskie voivodship that they have nothing to apologize for. It is President Kaczyński who should apologize to Poles and Poles, because he created the government and the back of this government from such Mezów. [[Applause]] I'm sure one of you will say that Maszy is no longer in the government, so there's no problem either. [[Voice from the room: Get to the point!]] Besides, I learned that at today's meeting of the Committee on Sports and Tourism. It was possible to get the impression that many PiS Members did not know this man, perhaps they had never even seen him. [[Let's get to the point, sir.]] Nothing more wrong, he's with you all the time. Mr. President Kaczyński! There was supposed to be a white-red team, and it's bleachy. [[Applause]] Zbialanina, author's design and model of policy management created by Jarosław Kaczyński. What's that bleach? It is a specific group of politically corrupt people, and thus more vulnerable to proposals that cannot be rejected: the vote of support in exchange for a position or a function in the government and the guarantee of impunity, at least until the end of your governments. [[Yes? And your Nowak is?]] No special powers, no scruples. The basic rule is that there are no rules. The method of political stick and carrot: if you can't bribe someone, you can pinch it, use hooks. [[The voice in the room: You say it from an autopsy, right? From the Civil Platform autopsy.]] Political bribery has a long tradition in PiS. We remember perfectly how 15 years ago you were corrupting in the privacy of the Seym Room. Today President Kaczyński no longer plays such nuances: in the middle of the day with public money, with the funds of the Treasury companies he glues and plays the parliamentary majority, and the price does not play any role. If there was discipline in the Olympic Games: public palism and bribery, you'd be champions. [[Applause]] What's more, the whole podium would be yours. A few examples. 40,000. For the MP, no problem, he pays BGK. Several dozens of thousands for the Member and additionally the President's role, on which she cares so much for a friend, pays PGE. Jobs in companies. Husband of Mrs Emilewicz, son of Mr Smolinski, cousin of Prime Minister Morawiecki, sister-in-law of Mr Sasin, partner of Mr Obajtka, wife of Sobolewski. I can't name them all because there's thousands of them. [[Voice from the hall: What about the Owl? You know that name?]] To two ministers, Cieślak and Wójcik, at the Prime Minister's firm, who do not know what they do, we all pay. Already today, over 800 million PLN (The Bell) costs us the office of Prime Minister Morawiecki, 7 times more than in 2015. Against this background There is no surprise about the decision to appoint as Minister of Sport and Tourism for Kamil Bortniczuk, who is being charged with serious charges. [[Voice from the hall: And for Nowak's position...]] However, a little more should be said about these allegations. How is it possible that the minister was the man you knew was being charged with, because the media wrote about it? The Regional Public Prosecutor's Office in Katowice opened an investigation into the purchase of propylene by Grupa Azoty Zakłady Azotowe Kędzierzyn on the basis of CBA materials at the time that Minister Kamil Bortniczuk was a member of the Management Board responsible for purchasing and negotiating the contract. From the information revealed by the media, we know that this is about making large-scale property damage and paying protection. Kędzierzyn Azotowe Zakłady Kędzierzyn has the status of a victim in this case. Another piece of information tells us that Kamil Bortniczuk most likely withheld from the Homeland Security the attempt to blackmail him with his contacts with businessmen. Next: The media reported that Kamil Bortniczuk lived in a hotel of one of his business friends for nearly a year, paying a bargain rate for the accommodation. The facts revealed suggest that perhaps in exchange for this discharge, the current minister did not remain in debt and contacted a friendly businessman who was in trouble with the law with the then Deputy Minister of Justice. This shows that the governing Polish political and social and business system first elevated Kamil Bortniczuk as a member of the Management Board of the Grupa Azota Group, and then made him a minister of sport and tourism, which through the existence of potential compromising materials can be easily steerable. It's a mess 2.0. . Of course, it is possible and necessary to discuss whether the Ministry of Sport and Tourism should be a separate entity. A lot of us in this room are convinced that yes, but in PiS, it's not normal. One of the Members said: no one is hiding why the resort of sport has returned. The idea is to make the entire coalition feel involved not only in supporting the government but also in exercising power. It must be admitted that the only one who was completely resistant is the Prime Minister of Gliński. He said, "I don't see the need." The only project in the last 2 months, which concerned sport and was in this House in December Ub. on the support of the European Games in Krakow in 2023 - who prepared it? Ministry of State Assets, Prime Minister of Sasin. [[Bożen Borys-Raccoon: Bravo for the Prime Minister!]] And he even set up an office in his ministry to deal with it, not at the Ministry of Sports. Then why would this ministry not even be responsible for the games? [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Removing.]] In one opinion, you treated the resort of sport like a political loot, nothing more. [[Applause]] Let me remind you: 15 months ago, Prime Minister Morawiecki liquidated this resort. And what did he say then? He praised that liquidation would contribute to a swift exit from the crisis, a quicker, better deal with the crisis than our neighbours, to building a state of prosperity. You've all been there for him. You enjoyed the liquidation. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] This is ridiculous, but we are not laughing because Poles and Poles pay a huge price for you, for your inability and cowardice. When you're having fun, the cost kills people, and inflation gets close to 10%. [[Voice from the hall: You are the dearest.]] Today, the PiS-owska majority is still convinced that the motion to dismiss Minister Bortniczuk will not change anything, that they will still be stuck in this toxic system of dependence. I am directing my appeal to you: you must also say to this rotten arrangement: stop, you must reject this whitewash, and if any of you, Members of the PiS, have any doubts, think about the words of the outstanding Polish thinker Leszek Kołakowski. Being cheated in politics is not an excuse. Sometimes it's the same crime as cheating on yourself. Thank you and invite Mrs Marzena Okłę-Drewnowicz to further justify. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u661	Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u662	I wonder, Minister, what is your competitive sport, and I come to the conclusion that you are training arrogance. [[Applause]] Because when Mr. Masha's affair was already absolutely evident, then you said, "I did not absolve Mr. Masha." Meanwhile, a few days earlier, your statement was: Mr. Masa's explanations are reliable to me. He emphasized that he acted in good faith. In good faith? In good faith, according to the media, he participated in attempts to prey on sick children and their parents. The question is whether you're so cynical or naive. Unfortunately, it seems cynical. In fact, everyone among family or friends has someone who is struggling with a severe illness, including among us parliamentarians, also among members of the PiS club are mothers and fathers who have severely ill children. [[Let Grodzki talk.]] How can you look them in the eye now after you defended Luke Meyza? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Listen up, ministers.]] And the stories of families that, according to numerous publications, tried to exploit the company associated with Mr. Mejza are shocking. Like a story. You're not gonna knock me out because these are real people's stories. The parents of little Poli suffering from cystic fibrosis. Vinci NeoClinic was supposed to tell them: collect 1,200 thousand. for the treatment of your child. You know what these people do? They sell everything, they owe, they take loans, they take moments because they dream of saving their very sick, severely ill children. They're a very easy target for crooks. They very often disable reasonable and analytical thinking. Poli's parents say today: everything seemed clear and clear, there wasn't even a thought that something might be wrong. However, as it turned out, the head of the clinic in Mexico was not to hear about the existence of Poli and her parents. It was feeding. Eating from misfortune and trying to make money from tragedy. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] The scary thing is, these parents were being harassed by text messages, they had a lot of messages on different Internet comms... [[Bożen Borys-Raccoon: By Bortniczuk?]] They had a lot of phone calls. It was just entrapment. Imagine Michael, 15, who suffers from an incurable disease that destroys brain cells. As Mrs Dagmara says, her assistant called her. You know what he said to her? That their company has great results in treating children with this disease. A woman who actually prayed for a miracle. Dagmara's reporters today say: Since the world's famous medicine, I have heard that this disease at an advanced stage has no way of healing. [[Minister of Education and Science Przemysław Czarnek: This is not the point. You made a mistake.]] It hurts. I know it hurts. And here's someone calling and saying they have an innovative method. Minister! You should read it every day. That misguided woman's opinion should be your remorse, because from start to finish it was a lie. There was no confirmed case of cure and no evidence of the effectiveness of this treatment. We remember the famous conference by Mr Łukasz Meiza, at which he did not want to answer even one question of journalists dealing with this matter, but he admitted that it was really the government that was on it. It has the unity of the United Right. And you -- that's your mistake, that's your responsibility -- after this conference, you should file a motion to resign your subordinate. You should be the one to speak to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to dissuade Łukasz Masza from his post. It doesn't surprise me that Mr. Majza resisted this resignation for a long time, because it's just a lack of honor. But just because you didn't see anything wrong with him, I can't think of anything. I think the Meyza scandal is one of the biggest scandals of this government - the scandal. For in this affair there is everything. There's your moral downfall, there's the rule: the hand washes, there's the fear of losing power. There are all the elements. First, the understatement, [[Applause]] then absolving, saying: his explanation is credible. Later, waiting for how much of this scandal can be turned down. Meanwhile, more publications appear, comments are not silent, and party colleagues are outraged. Even Mr Sylvester Tulaev, I remember how outraged he was about why he didn't have this resignation at all. So there were voices among you, too. That's what happened. But there was a calculation at which point it really led to this resignation. And then there's the pre-Christmas period when you throw it in, because they're really short-lived. There's really everything in this affair. Everything that's most disgusting. And today we're putting a vote of distrust on you. Because you personally are responsible for the fact that this resignation has not been made before. She should be right away. There was no time to wait. It is a question of political responsibility, but above all, of ordinary human morality, which in politics should take place and is simply priceless. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: What is the morality of Marshal Grodzki?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u663	I now ask Mr Dariusz Olszewski to present the opinion of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism. [[Voice from the room: Distance.]] [[Voice from the room: Distance and masks.]] [[A distance from reason, Minister.]] Sir, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u664	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have the honour to present - and it is my honour to present the opinion of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism in the matter of expression, and now it will be important: a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Sport and Tourism, Kamila Bortniczuk. I repeat, Kamila Bortniczuka. [[Voice from the room: This is not an opinion.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the committee meeting, if there's a word that wasn't at the committee's meeting, you'll have to accuse me of something. But if you weren't on this committee, just sit back and listen. I'm asking you to. [[Applause]] Those who were, as far as any charge is concerned, please. [[Voice from the room: Maybe to the point.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Print No. 1844. We have signatures, we have justification. And in this... [[Minister of Education and Science Przemysław Czarnek: Leave Sienkiewicz or he will fall.]] Mr. Marshal! I think we need a breathalyzer for the O.R. I'd like a breathalyzer for the O.R. [[Voice from the room: Alkomat, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't bring Sienkiewicz out! Sienkiewicz's freedom!]] If I may, I will continue, and whoever comes out with this step, as you can see, is not definitely an athlete. [[Voice from the room: Alkomat, please.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In support of the proposal presented by Marek Owa. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Do you still have the audacity to speak at the moment? Have you seen how your envoy behaved? What condition was he in? And you're still raising your voice now? [[But the minister's gonna yell?]] That really is insolence. [[Voice from the room: What condition was he in?]] [[The government is insolent.]] On behalf of the applicants, Mr Marek Owa spoke, who, unfortunately, is not a member of this committee. Previously, we were informed in print that Mr Maciej Kierwiński was authorized to represent the applicants, and then there was a change. We were very surprised at the committee meeting, the more that the committee really... Not the committee... [[Go ahead, go ahead.]] Your party - it's hard even for it to pass - has great athletes on this committee, who could quietly express this vote of distrust and justify it. Ladies and gentlemen! When we heard such statements at the committee's meeting in the explanatory memorandum: 'Is it true','suspect', 'probably', 'can be','maybe', 'probable' or'seems', we clearly asked the applicants, although there was no answer, whether it was certainly a good justification. We're talking about the constitutional minister's cancellation right now. To cancel the constitutional minister, there should be evidence. Unfortunately, there was nothing about it on the committee. What was it about? Six pages, including one and a half pages, about whether the suspicion of Minister Kamil Bortniczuk is true. But what is above all? What we were afraid of in committee, and what we said we were going to be a political hucpa. And it is. You came here just to hit the government, not the sport, and we in the sports committee are talking about sport and we are trying not to introduce any politics there. And so far, there's been no politics on the sports committee. But Mr. Kamil Bortniczuk's name has changed into Luke Meyza's name. Every moment we have a name: Łukasz Meiza, Łukasz Meiza, Łukasz Meiza and Łukasz Meiza. This isn't an appeal... [[Voice from the room: Mesa two.]] [[Voice from the hall: You are all Masians.]] This is not a motion to revoke the Minister of Sport and Tourism, Mr Kamil Bortniczuk. [[Voice from the room: Who asked for the Mass?]] Excuse me, I'd really like to ask for some peace. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, sir, I have stressed that if someone comes to the committee meeting, especially the sports committee, and works... I made it clear to Mr Sowa that when we talked earlier in the committee about the European Games and there was this voice that he was bringing, we were able to thank and it was expressed from this speaker. I hope that the Member will also recall this. Unfortunately, if we mix politics into sport, it will not be good. Ladies and gentlemen! There was also a question at the committee meeting that we did not get the answers to about how many athletes had applied to cancel the Minister and how many sports unions were dissatisfied with the work of the Minister of Sport. [[Voice from the room: Many, many.]] Unfortunately, there were no answers, but I know the answer. [[Voice from the room: All of them.]] No. No relationship made any comments on the work of the Ministry of Sports... [[Voice from the room: Because there is no job.]] [[Yes. And you can rely on whoever's working.]] ...and he didn't file an appeal. [[Voice from the hall: Because the ministry doesn't exist.]] Unfortunately, we also stressed this at the committee meeting and did not receive an answer. Ladies and gentlemen! Two votes took place at the committee meeting. First of all, about a positive opinion on the vote of distrust towards the Minister of Sport and Tourism, Mr Kamil Bortniczuk. I will quote the results: there were 8 Members against this proposal - 15, with 0 abstentions. Later, Mr President decided to vote on the second vote on the negative opinion of this proposal: 15 against - 8, with 0 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Kamil Bortniczuk has only been Minister since 26 October, and this is probably some record that we said in the committee that after such a time as it is impossible to determine whether he has done something wrong or has done something right, there is already a vote. [[Voice from the room: The mass was done.]] And here, Mr Bortniczuk, you are mistaken because Mr Masa was called earlier and not by Mr Kamil Bortniczuk, but unfortunately you do not know that. I hope the Minister will tell you himself. [[You know, a man gets to know himself after he starts...]] This is all set out in the appointment dates of the Secretary of State as well as Minister Kamil Bortniczuk. Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission is negative in its proposal to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister for Sport and Tourism, Mr Kamila Bortniczuk. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u665	Thank you, sir. [[Mr. Marshal, can I correct you?]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. We're joining the club appearances. Please, Mr Marek Matuszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u666	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! I am deeply disgusted that the only thing Members of the total opposition can concentrate on right now is the political and personal attacks on Minister Bortniczuk. These attacks are based on conjecture, rumor and unconfirmed accusations. Today you are pursuing a political campaign for Minister Bortniczuk, on the basis of his constant suspicions, insinuations, doubts and allegations. Looking for a scandal? I'll remind you. It was a political earthquake. Zbigniew Chlebowski, sweaty as a mouse, explained that he was not a lobbyist. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Mirosław Drzewiecki kept saying that Sobiesiaka knows, sometimes they'll have a few words with each other, and that's all. Grzegorz Schetyna was tightening his teeth with anger, and Sławomir Nowak was looking for a new place in politics to rape himself. But I think Donald Tusk was the most pissed off. One-handed bandits. That's a lot of money. Controversial lobbying and the names of the Platform's influential politicians, including several ministers, have been in the biggest offensive. [[Applause]] since his crew took over. Remember those days? [[Before the war, what happened!]] No, you do not allow the resort managed by him to show the potential of activities to support the development of Polish sport, preferring to turn into a circle of calumnia thrown at the Minister's person. [[And before the war, what a mess it was!]] You are not interested in how the Ministry helps our athletes prepare to start the upcoming XXIV Winter Olympics. You are not concerned with the state of preparation for the Paris Games, to which qualifications go in many disciplines full steam. You are not interested in developing youth sports, helping the resort to affected by the ongoing pandemic sports events. You are not paying attention to the 20% increase in sports spending in the 2022 budget. And a record-breaking amount of almost PLN 1700 million currently earmarked for this purpose for years. You do not deal with where sports infrastructure will be created for nearly PLN 600 million. You cannot accuse the Minister that he does not know sport, that he is making decisions that are detrimental to the development of sport and tourism, or that he is mismanagement of the State budget for this purpose. You do not want to allow him to fully present his program, his idea for Polish sport. You are interested in only one game: political game. There are only one games for you: the Games of hypocrisy and discourse. In this category, you can fight for the championship. Unfortunately, this is not a championship that Poles can be proud of. When you stand in this category at the highest level, no one will play you Mazurka Dąbrowski. Nearly 20 financial programmes to support universal sport, wide international cooperation in the field of sport, activities in the field of new technologies and e-sport development are a fact. Action to rebuild the tourism industry after the devastation brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic, seven major programmes are further facts, but you are not interested in facts. You didn't come to the Sejm building today to talk about facts. You didn't come here to think about sports, you came here to lynch a man, not because he did something wrong, but because he has different views on the future of Poland than you. In the category of sport treatment you beat Paul Sousa on the head. [[Applause]] You don't deal with rising sports pensions or four new scholarships. You are not interested in the sport programme of all children - 67 million, or the programme of the Local sports animator - 21 million or the programme of the School sports club - 60 million PLN etc. Minister Bortniczuk presented a number of interesting ideas to support Polish sport and Polish tourism. Yes, he deserves to have a chance to put them into practice. [[Then betray them.]] Yes, he deserves to be judged as the results of his work, for activities that bring tangible results for Polish sport. [[What results?]] Yes, we deserve to discuss with him at this point why our children's physical condition is becoming increasingly challenging. Yes, he deserves us to think together about how to get Polish tourism back on its feet. [[For six years...]] He's a tough guy, he's an athlete, he's a real athlete who kicks the ball with his neighbors on a field that's generally accessible, not guarded by bodyguards. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I believe that today (the bell) will win for its further hard work, it will contribute to the victory of Poles in the sports arenas of the whole world. High Izbo! I ask for a calm and substantive assessment of the Minister. Let's bet on the facts, not the presumption. I request on behalf of the Law and Justice Club that the motion for a vote of distrust be rejected by Minister Kamil Bortniczuk. Let's deal with real problems. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Marek, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u667	Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u668	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! He wished to refer to the past. Yes, once in the past, the Ministry of Sport was associated with eagles. Today he is associated with Minister Meiza. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: With eagles locked in the key.]] We can go back even further to the past. Tomasz July, Minister of Sport in Jarosław Kaczyński's Government, sentenced to 3.5 years in prison. [[Applause]] You want to talk about the past? [[Applause]] It is interesting to see this determination to defend Mr Meyza, de facto the duo of Meyz - Bortniczuk. It is a pity that with such determination you do not defend Poles from pandemics. [[Applause]] Today, as I hear, you have nothing to do with Mejza, in fact Mr. Bortniczuk has nothing to do with Mejza either, but on 13 October last year President Kaczyński presented this duet as a package that goes to the newly created Ministry of Sport. And it is symbolic that Mr. Bortniczuk, with the same energy and commitment, defended Mr. Meza, with whom he attacked teachers a few days ago, who claimed the wages you took from them with the mess you called the order. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Sport is a rivalry, a national anthem, we're rooting for our team, our player. That's what we think of sports. What do we think about the Ministry of Sports? We've been familiar with the Ministry of Sports for the past few weeks with Mr. Mejza. This debate would not have been if we had a normal democratic state, because Mr Masza in a normal country would never have passed a service centrifuge that checks candidates for important offices. [[Applause]] But do you know why it wasn't thoroughly checked? Because during this time of service, they're dealing with the opposition. They do eavesdropping on the opposition and searching for hooks for opposition. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: Well, what are you happy about?]] Today we have a government that doesn't rule, but only keeps itself in power. Besides, how to listen to you, even if you're discussing the previous item, you can't actually do anything. Everything is decided by someone completely different, almighty Tusk, the European Union. You guys are from nothing, you don't really know what you're going to these ministries for, and why you're actually taking salaries. [[Applause]] Why did you create the Ministry of Sports? It is precisely to find a place for Mr.Meyza, for Mr. Bortniczuk, because you are so cute, you are cutting these voices, the voice after the voice, so that Meyza plus Bortniczuk, plus Kołakowski, so that it together gives more than 230 votes, and in this way to build a majority, such a small majority, in the case of Kołakowski - for 40 thousand. PLN per month. You've got your Mass from two towers, you've got your Mass from TV propaganda, you've got your Eavesdropping Mass, you've got an army of Meezes that you poisoned Poland with. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Kamil Bortniczuk.]] You made the Constitutional Ministry Renata Beger's room. [[The voice from the hall: The pulp is a cardinal to be with you.]] You used to buy jobs quietly in the self-defense hotel room, and today you do it in the light of the cameras. It's hard to imagine something more inhuman than preying on the drama of parents of terminally ill children. [[Voice from the room: Where is Sienkiewicz?]] [[Voice from the room: Where's Kaczyński?]] Polish Dictionary is helpless in such a situation. In such a situation, only curses will be squeezed upon their mouths. You're the ones who brought someone like Masha to the pedestal. This is the essence of building your parliamentary majority. There wouldn't be a Masa in a place like this if it wasn't for the PiS if it wasn't for President Kaczyński. You say there's no Masa in the ministry, you say no Masa, no problem. The minister of ventilators wasn't in the ministry for a while either, but he was in another one. And who can guarantee us that Masha will not appear at the Ministry of Health in a moment? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] This debate is, of course, not just about the Ministry of Sport, it is a debate And what you are willing to do, what you are willing to do to secure the majority in the Seym. One time, President Kaczyński had Andrzej Lepper's face from that speaker. Today President Kaczyński has the face of Łukasz Meja, because it is this government thanks to Łukasz Meja that functions and has the majority. [[Applause]] Sports are fair play, rivalry according to certain standards, rules. If you want to be clean and not doping, vote for the cancellation of Minister Bortniczuk. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u669	Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u670	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We will vote on the vote of distrust against Minister Kamil Bortniczuk. Is the minister worthy of trust or on the contrary? We have heard of criminal charges that may be brought against the minister and against the mitoman - the excellent diagnosis of Michał Dworczyk - Łukasz Meja, whom Mr Bortniczuk defended to the end. People with such charges They can take pictures with Nightingale's friends or other bosses, but they should not sit in ministerial seats. There was a sports minister who had a problem with Baranina. What is Mr. Bortniczuk's competence and ideas for Polish sport that the Ministry was specifically created for him? The only reason Kamil Bortniczuk became Minister is because he betrayed Jarosław Gowin. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] And who didn't you cheat on Meiza or cheat on her creatively developed method for her grandson? You have not betrayed, gentlemen, for the sake of sport and tourism, for the sake of Poland, you have betrayed for these silver pieces, which are generously divided by Prime Minister Morawiecki, and will share even more generously, because since the United Right rule, the cost of maintaining the Prime Minister's firm has increased seven times and you have unlimited prizes. Modesty and humility. Do the math. How many of you care about any trust in the integrity and competence of the ministers, and how many of you will vote to keep the dollar received from the state capital? This participle and sejm can only be maintained at the PiS manger, only and only by giving them seats in ministries and companies of the State Treasury. [[Applause]] And the more dirty someone is, the more faithful he will be to serve that authority, and Mr. Ziobro will ensure the prosecution's inaction. [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] This is the law, this justice and these Republican values. Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński was killed in the building of the Ministry of Sport in the first days of the Warsaw Uprising, and today Minister Bortniczuk has the finish line where you can do the navel, as reported by the media. The meth. So where's the party tonight? Have fun. The Titanic PiS is sinking. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u671	Member Maciej Kopeć, Left. [[Voice from the room: Mound, Mound.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u672	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mound, Mound, of course. As a Left, we came to the motion for a vote of distrust towards Minister Bortniczuk very seriously and substantively. We checked the Ministry of Sport and Tourism three times. Two parliamentary checks directly related to the activities of Minister Bortniczuk. The first check showed that Minister Kamil Bortniczuk had not shown any activity for two months. The only documents he has signed are annexes to the agreements still concluded by Minister Gliński. Today we gave the minister a second chance. We were again at the parliamentary control at the Ministry of Sports and Tourism. So? Nothing. Literally, literally nothing. 3 months of inactivity, 3 months of pretending to work 3 months of taking after 22,000. zł monthly salary for nothing. [[Voice from the hall: Don't lie, you don't know anything about it.]] [[Voice from the gym: You're in sports, man, you don't know.]] [[Voice from the hall: What do you take for?]] Nothing. I checked it myself. Kucharska's messenger checked, too. The only documents signed by Minister Bortniczuk are a leave application from Deputy Minister Meyza. [[Joy in the Chamber]] and created in pain in the Ministry regulations of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism. [[Applause]] Since our previous parliamentary review at the Ministry of Sport, reception has also appeared. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is the professional success of the Minister of Sport Kamila Bortniczuk. There is another most important success of Minister Bortniczuk. It's about Luke. It's about Luke. It's about Luke. Luke Meizah was a man who tried to con fat thousands of parents into terminally ill children. Łukasz Mejza is a political child and political responsibility of Kamil Bortniczuk, Mateusz Morawiecki and Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Voice from the room: Not the president of PSL by chance?]] And the last, this time photographic, evidence of involvement in the work of Minister Kamil Bortniczuk is a web photograph of the minister of the Polish government with a partner of one of the most famous Polish gangsters. That's what Minister Bortniczuk does. That's what your ministers do. [[Do you know gangsters?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Bortniczuk and the resort led by him is a tragedy. Neither the Ministry acting in this way nor such minister is necessary for Poland. We will vote in favour of the immediate cancellation of Kamil Bortniczuk from the role of Minister of Sport and Tourism, because it is decency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Voice of reason.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u673	Mr Ireneusz Raś, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u674	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It was supposed to be a big holiday, because the sports community's proposal for months has been about getting the Ministry of Sport back. Today we have an embarrassing discussion. There is a ministry in the background whose return was so long awaited by the sports community. I'd like to protest. We're clearly dealing with a false start. You can't be outraged here. Prime Minister, I think that directing charges, as the applicants did, formally, technically only towards Kamil Bortniczuk is unjustified. I believe that these are allegations that must be directed towards the Prime Minister, because this is a question of building a government's personnel policy. [[Voice from the room: What about the president of PSL?]] [[Voice from the room: He has nothing to say.]] This proposal shows very strongly the weaknesses of the political background of Law and Justice and the United Right. I will prove this by operating on these two allegations which have been formulated by the applicants. I would prefer to criticize Kamil Bortniczuk for his content, but today, in front of the Ministry of Sport, there are really important challenges. We should talk about preparing the Polish team for the Beijing Olympic Games, about the form of Polish jumpers, how to help them. [[Voice from the room: You're interrupting.]] That's what Kamil Bortniczuk should be doing today. We should talk about the preparations for the European Games we are planning in Krakow, and about the promotion of Poland during these games. Finally, we should take care, ladies and gentlemen, of getting the tourism industry out of the crisis after the pandemic. Everyone's waiting for it, and we're doing something else. I, my fellow Members from the parliamentary club and, in my opinion, many Members, even those sitting on this side of the room, would like to do so. I mean, you take these people in every day. They tell you what they need. And we're in charge of the Mass. Didn't you know who Masha was? [[Voice from the room: It's you.]] Did you not know who Mr Łukasz Meiza is? [[Voice from the room: Please direct this question to the left.]] I really think... I'm complaining to Kamil Bortniczuk that he didn't ask for... [[Voice from the room: Unfortunately, we had too much confidence in the PSL.]] Minister Kamil Bortniczuk did not request that Mr Łukasz Meza be removed from the government before he resigned. That would be cleaner. I know arithmetic is arithmetic, and that's the only thing that kept Minister Bortinchuk from taking that step. Do you know what Łukasz Meiza has been given? This is a misunderstanding. He was supposed to be de facto taking care of, I don't know, the introduction of e-sports. After all, the International Olympic Committee did not allow computer games, online games, very popular, big business to be treated equally with sport. Why are you typing in this range of activities? It was signed by Kamil Bortniczuk. That's my point, Minister. That's what's bothering you, too. There can be no such responsibilities as the Secretary of State as Minister Mejza had. Official Journal of the Minister for Sport and Tourism of 19 November 2021 Please read this. This is disqualifying. It's not in the proposal, but I think it's a question. [[Applause]] material. We're about to have those kids who are encouraged to play games today, to support in the fight against addiction. Now that I'm done, there's one more thing I'd like to say. Perhaps Mr. Kamil Bortniczuk is a de facto victim of your system of building the United Right. When he was a co-worker of Jarosław Gowin, you probably sent all the servants to him. When you found the hooks on him, he did not go with Jarosław Gowin to the opposition, but supported you (the bell), supported the United Right. [[Applause]] You have a problem with that today. That's the lie. You need to get off this path. We want to move away from this policy-making, which is why we will support this proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u675	Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u676	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! The atmosphere of the scandal around Minister Bortniczuk is not an accident. It is worth considering why he has tolerated controversy around his deputy minister and subordinate, Mr.Meisa for so long. That's why we have a vote of distrust against him. It's perfectly natural for you to have political responsibility. It is also interesting why Mr. Prime Minister and his party leader, who is not here today, which is Mr.Jarosław Kaczyński, have tolerated for so long. What does it look like when it comes to internal dependence? How many coalitioners had to be satisfied, among others. Could Mr. Masa have kept himself on the stool? What took you so long? Why couldn't these games end with the first controversy, the first scandals that had already come out? So, speaking here about a vote of distrust for Minister Bortniczuk, perhaps it would be worth considering a vote of distrust for the Prime Minister. And that's the question I'm leaving you with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u677	Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, you've shown off.]] [[We're not on you.]] [[A voice from the hall: It occurred to you, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u678	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a problem discussing the resignation of the Minister of Sport, because I believe it is a ministry that should not exist. Moreover, the Prime Minister sitting here, looking at me now, had exactly the same opinion a year ago, also thought that the Ministry of Sport did not have to exist, but the political situation forced you to feed the stomachs of certain ambitious politicians and this ministry again to live. I'm not gonna get mad about Mr. Masha because that's not what we're discussing. The subject of the discussion is whether we need the Minister of Sport at all, but in this case... [[Voice from the room: We need it.]] ...or do we need Minister Borninchuk. I'm saying no. And in substance, Minister, what I'm trying to say is... [[Dziambora we need a minister.]] No, thank you very much, I don't need the Ministry of Sports. The Management Board of the Polish Gymnastics Association, decision of 29 December 2021 on participation in sports competitions - all athletes of national staff and all clubs, all sports clubs, children, parents, viewers, judges, trainers, members of the trade union also, have compulsory vaccinations against COVID-19, otherwise they will not be able to take part in any competition. Children under the age of 12 are allowed... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...with a certificate that they don't have a coroner after examination. Minister Czarnek, Minister of Education, was able to stand up and defend teachers against such sanitary segregation. Unfortunately, you can't do that. Minister and Prime Minister, think again about this (the bell) if this ministry is needed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u679	Mr Paweł Zalewski, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u680	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, Poland 2050. Corruption is one of the most serious diseases in the Third Republic. Its size is enormous. We estimate that economic pathology brings multi-billion-dollar losses to public finances. [[Voice from the hall: To Tusk.]] As various scandals show, from the beginning of last decade as well as from the last years, corruption reaches the highest levels of power in Poland. Recognize that line? Do you remember? [[Voice from the room: Tusk, Tusk.]] This is the 2005 PiS programme. Today these words describe the reality of Poland present. What happened, Prime Minister? What happened that you walked away from the noblest ideals, from the idea of a strong, just state and turned them into a party loot? What happened? What happened that the anti-corruption instruments we created together... that the CBA, instead of fighting these crimes, was fighting the opposition? What happened, Prime Minister? [[Applause]] The answer is provided by Mr. Bortniczuk's example. When he was on behalf of a political party, otherwise you cannot, a member of the Management Board of Azots in Kędzierzyn, without any qualifications, earned PLN 1 million. Yes, Minister? And then you demanded 200,000 more. What's this? It's a study of greed. It's a study of greed, which is used by your party's leadership to achieve its goals, to own the state. On the other hand, it is a study of the absolute exploitation of human weaknesses. And I have to say that many of you, many of the activists of the current PiS, in this study, can look through like a mirror. It is the depropriation of the state, political corruption - and that is the most important thing, Prime Minister - that leads to its collapse. These are also the conclusions from the history of Poland. We're against it. As Members of Poland 2050, we will vote in favour of the motion to revoke Mr Bortniczuk. We are against corruption and what you do with the Polish state. Prime Minister, what happened? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You are an example of political corruption.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u681	Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, PPS. [[Voice from the room: What is it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u682	This is the Polish Socialist Party, I represent the parliamentary circle. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My esteemed previous speaker asked the Prime Minister, and I also hope to get an answer to the question of what happened. I'll give you a hint: nothing happened. This is happening all the time, it is happening not only during this term, because it so happens that the Polish right is not lucky to be the minister of sport or sport and tourism. The name of Tomasz Lipc, probably the only constitutional minister convicted of bribery, the minister in the government of Jarosław Kaczyński, has already fallen. Let us also remind you of the name of Jack Dębski, a prominent policy of Solidarity Election Action. Many politicians, former AWS politicians, populate the right side of this seym. So nothing happened, it just happens all the time. The Parliamentary Circle of PPS, High Izbo, will of course vote for the vote of distrust for Mr Kamil Bortniczuk. But we will not judge his accomplishments or omissions, because they are irrelevant, they do not weigh. Mr Kamil Bortniczuk was and is in the Ministry of Sport as well as in the Council of Ministers an element of decoration, it is enough that he is. We will, High Izbo, evaluate the system that created Kamil Bortniczuk and his likes, such as Mr Łukasz Mejza, Mr Kułakowski, as dozens and as hundreds of others. [[Voice from the hall: Kwasniewski.]] This is the system that he created, the essence of which is the mechanism of buying people into art. Yeah, the mechanism for buying people into art. For their votes, to maintain at all costs a coalition governing that this PiS Bermuda triangle consisting of ministries, including the Ministry of Sport, State Treasury companies and special funds, the amount of which at the time of the United Right increased by 50, I apologize, by 35 and by another 15 will increase as the National Plan for Reconstruction and Polish Load arrives. This is the essence of this system and because, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, the Parliamentary Circle of the Polish Socialist Party will vote in favour of the cancellation of Mr Kamil Bortniczuk from the occupied function, because it is a symbol of this system that has rotted but has not yet failed. Let's help him with this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u683	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Minister of Sport and Tourism, Mr Kamil Bortniczuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u684	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for introducing me. I'll say it again, maybe. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Kamil Bortniczuk, alone, not in any duet, in the flesh. [[Applause]] Listening to your comments, I had the impression that not all of you remember who this proposal was about, so I would like to remind you again. Hello again, Kamil Bortniczuk, very nice to meet you. [[Voice from the room: Former Deputy Minister.]] I have divided this statement into three basic parts. The first is the charges you're making to me personally. The second part is the accusations that you personally make to the former Deputy Minister, Mr Łukasz Meiza, and the third part is the allegations of substance. I am terribly sorry that it is difficult to find anything in this third part, but I also thank those of you who have, however, tried to find something in this substantive part. I will refer to all these comments. [[Voice from the room: If you don't work, you don't have material.]] I understand you're saying this from your own experience. I'm very sorry, especially at the age you're at. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Owl, Mrs Kucharska-Dziedzic and Mr Kopiec used the word "blamings" very strongly. One of you once used the words "criminal charges" that go around. I want to make all these points very clear and concrete. Well, I've never stolen anything from anyone, never succumbed to corruption, never been blackmailed, so I've never been convicted of any crime by any court. [[The voice from the hall: Like a Masha.]] Not much, never by any prosecutor or any other organ have I been accused of anything. As if it weren't enough in the context of all the revelations you're trying to give, I've never even been suspicious in any case, and I'm also not suspicious in any of those cases that the media manipulatively described to me. I've never even been a suspect in any of these cases. That's my boring resume, ladies and gentlemen. I'm very sorry I'm not helping you with these personal attacks on me. However, I would like to refer to two allegations or two Members' statements personally. Mr Kopiec, I do not know where Mr Kopiec is sitting if he is staying in the Chamber. [[Voice from the room: He's here.]] You, Mr President, are a common liar and I say this with full responsibility. You lie regularly, in your statement from this place several times you have used a lie. At the press conferences that you and your fellow Member organised after the controls at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, you have repeatedly used lies. Today, you lied about at least two things. First of all, about my alleged inactivity at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism. You gave examples, I don't know, some two or several documents I signed. Well, I've signed hundreds of documents, and I'm a little embarrassed to tell you in front of you, unless it's thousands. I am sure that thousands of documents have been signed with hundreds of my mandates, which I issued just last year in order to effectively complete or settle all the ministerial programmes, and in order to effectively announce the ministerial programmes in most of 2022, which we managed to do without undue delay in such a way that the sports community in no way felt the administrative process of restoring the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, which I will insist on, is needed on the administrative map of our country. [[Voice from the auditorium: Where is Masha?]] [[Voice from the room: With Sienkiewicz.]] And I know that many of you, too, on the side of the opposition, think as I do. [[...from the Hawk, quiet.]] I would also like to refer to Mr Raś's statement on the alleged hooks that were collected on me, which made me not on the opposition side today and in the United Right. Ladies and gentlemen, in what categories do you think? I became a member of the law and justice letter. For both the previous term and this. If you say something about loyalty, we can divide loyalty into four basic topics. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] The first is loyalty to the leader, and here really to the leader who changed his vision of politics at a certain time, I lacked that loyalty because I bet on loyalty primarily towards the state, and the state needed a stable government and still needs... [[Mr. and Mrs. PiS.]] ...to be loyal to your own views... [[You got a job.]] ...which have caused me to engage in political life on the right side of the Polish political scene since I was 18 years old, not on the opposition side of such a small rainbow. [[You should have gone to work.]] And in the last place, but not least, loyalty to my own constituents, I will repeat once again, the voters who elected me as a Member from the Letter of Law and Justice, the voters to whom I went with the programme of continuing the rule of the United Right, continuing the good change, and therefore I am loyal. So if someone's talking about it and looking for other motivations, some hooks, they're just wandering around in the world. You can have hooks so that you can drag someone to the opposition side in a situation when they were chosen from the other side. But I don't know that anymore. [[Voice from the room: Meiza.]] Point two in my three-point schedule is about the case... [[Voice from the hall: Where's Meyza?]] ...Mister of the Member today, and recently Deputy Minister Lukasz Mejza. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Here I will surprise you, especially those of the Civic Coalition, the applicant countries. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Keep your voice down!]] Let me put it this way: a really reliable journalistic investigation was the result of information coming from citizens upset by the attitude of a public person. There was a desire to benefit at the expense of sick people, and you said here that it was an attempt to make money on tragedy, on sickness, you said it was feeding. There are people testifying under the name of the politician, and the prosecution is finally trying to press charges for the second time. And here's the surprise. Everything I've said relates to Thomas Grodzki, your Marshal of the Senate, the third person in the country, as you say. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Who is Łukasz Meiza... [[Voice from the room: Martyr.]] ...even at a time when he was Deputy Minister of Sport and Tourism, compared to the Senate Marshal, the third person in the country? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: What about sports?]] And you're talking about someone taking me to the office? I want you to think about who you've taken to the office. [[Voice from the hall: There is nothing to say about sports, I understand.]] Notice the beam in your own eye before you want to see the blade in ours. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Let us compare the difference between Luke Meiz and Thomas Grodzki. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: What's with the marshal's harassment?]] First of all, it's different from your camp. Luke Meizah no longer has the function he had just a moment ago. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet there.]] He resigned himself. He probably also knew that this was the expectation of our political leadership, but he resigned himself. [[Voice from the hall: The pulp deceives people.]] And where is Thomas Grodzki today? [[Voice from the room: Meiza the hero, pattern.]] Łukasz Meiza was a young entrepreneur, [[Joy in the Chamber]] Who was looking for money where he wasn't supposed to be looking. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[The voice from the hall: Tell the czarny to take him to the altars.]] He was looking for money where he shouldn't be looking. And Tomasz Grodzki is a professor of medicine, chief of... [[Voice from the room: Alcomat, breathalyzer.]] ...director. According to the media, and according to the testimony of witnesses who testify under the name... [[Voice from the room: Textbook mechanics.]] ...and under the threat of criminal liability for false testimony... [[Voice from the room: Meiza example.]] ...the D.A. wants to file nearly a dozen charges. Thomas Grodzko. [[Voice from the hall: And something about sports was supposed to be.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't embarrass yourself.]] And it's not a young man who wants to make money where he shouldn't be looking for money. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] This is a professional professor who, all indications of it, the media report, demanded money for medical procedures... [[You'll end up in court, apologize in court.]] ...so he preyed on sick people, there he sought profit, there he sought profit. [[Shame, shame!]] [[Voice from the courtroom: You'll apologize in court.]] I repeat once again, I am merely informing you that I am replicating the information that the media are providing about Mr. Tomasz Grodzki. [[Voice from the room: PiS media.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr Grupinski, don't embarrass yourself.]] We're finally at the point on the substantive charges. [[Voice from the hall: Sports.]] I really wanted to talk about sports, and I'd like to talk about sports... [[But there's nothing to talk about.]] ...only the sports state didn't want to talk at all. I'm ready. [[A voice from the hall: Let's talk about sports.]] We can talk about the European Games in Krakow in 2023. [[Voice from the room: Please, please.]] Mr Owl is from Krakow. I thought you'd be honest enough to skip that thread. After all, you know very well what my influence as Minister of Sport has been in recent weeks when it comes to speeding up the issue of the organisation of the European Games in Krakow. I think you know that very well. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Sasin hasn't done anything in two years, it's true.]] Minister Jacek Sasin is a government proxy for the organisation of these games. The procedure for the bill that you were talking about, Mr Pierce, began at a time when the Ministry of Sport and Tourism was not there yet. [[That's not true, December.]] You're talking about proceding in the Seym... [[Voice from the hall: Look, the world is spinning, you know?]] ...and I'm talking about creating in the privacy of the offices. Therefore, Minister Sasina's co-workers were responsible for its shape... [[He had no idea.]] ...and as such they were responsible for leading the legislative process to the end. On the other hand, honesty should not allow you to say some of the words you said from that stand a few dozen minutes ago. I would like to talk to you about the fact that after the programmes that we are going to implement, and I am full of good thoughts, in cooperation with Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, the budget of the Department of Physical Culture will exceed PLN 2 billion this year. That's more than twice as much as the figure in 2015, when you gave up power. [[Goldilocks had a different value.]] But not twice as different. I would like to talk about the fact that we can thus ensure that the expenditure of the Ministry is increased in almost every aspect of the activity. I would like to talk about the fact that we will include almost one million Polish children in the year 2022. I want to talk about it. You just don't want to talk about it. [[The voice from the hall: But you spoke of Grodzki. Speak of Mesha, sir.]] There wasn't a word about it in your statements. I would like to reply to Mr Rasi, who is probably no longer in the Chamber. He talked about e-sports in the context of Łukasz Meza and his competences. It is half-truth that I would say so, because the responsibility of Minister Mejza was to supervise the department of new technologies, which dealt with the implementation of new technologies, new IT solutions in the field of sport service, new databases... [[Voice from the hall: How many times has Masa been to the ministry? Once?]] ...who took care of... [[Voice from the room: Unworkable.]] ...the office's IT service, what it does in every IT office. But we can't pretend there's no such thing as an e-sport. We e-sports within any ministerial programme do not support, but we notice this phenomenon, we notice the dangers that arise from this phenomenon. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] But we also notice the odds, because e-sports are often sports games, this is the form children's interest in sports. Combining this with another form of physical activity is a kind of opportunity and we at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism will want to take advantage of this opportunity. Not to promote e-sport, but to use e-sport and popularity of some sports that e-sport also generates, to promote classical sport to support the activity of young Poles. [[Voice from the room: The e-medicine mass was done.]] I'd like to end with... It's pretty sad. Sport is a form of prevention, also anti-alcoholic prevention. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] I think that some of the people who were brought out of this room a few dozen minutes ago, this sport would be useful, including this form of prevention. [[Voice from the hall: Sienkiewicz where did he go?]] [[Voice from the hall: Where is Budka?]] [[Voice from the room: Kamińskiego ask.]] [[Voice from the room: Check in with the breathalyzer.]] Repeating or concluding, the Ministry of Sport and Tourism is needed on the administrative map of the Republic of Poland. The Ministry of Sport and Tourism implements very, very many responsible and necessary programs for Polish society both in the field of professional sport and in the field of sport as well as in the field of infrastructure development. In the coming weeks, we will present to you a comprehensive programme relating to each of these sections, a programme which will be set up for the next 7 years for the functioning of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism. That's what we've been working on for the last few weeks, too. I appeal to you to allow us to work, not to practice politics in sport. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u685	Thank you, Minister. I now ask the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u686	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is a phenomenon that is absolutely unique, very often inspiring, inspiring to many people. [[Voice from the hall: The name of the pulp.]] [[Voice from the room: Meiza.]] It is a phenomenon that very often unites people, unites around one goal, a common goal, around the homeland, patriotism. [[Voice from the hall: The plot.]] And that is the phenomenon of sport. Sport, which is something beautiful, because it can just inspire cross-party activities over divisions, to activities that can actually combine. I would very much like us, on the basis of our programmes, to discuss the programmes that the Ministry of Sport and Tourism is developing. This is what I expected when I first heard that this was going to be the case, and I thought to myself, we're going to talk about various programs that weren't there in the time of the PO-PSL, we developed them. Maybe they should be more developed, maybe less. A broad discussion about sport, about sport as a national good, which at the same time can unite. And, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I'm disappointed, because of course, it's completely different. [[Voice from the room: Meiza.]] It has happened that this proposal is a completely non-essential proposal, a proposal which does not concern sport, does not concern tourism. In the meantime, it is worth mentioning some of the most important figures first, because I think they - I think everyone will admit it - do not lie. Well, our investment budget this year, in 2022, also thanks to Minister Bortniczuk's actions... [[Voice from the room: Meizy.]] ...to reach over PLN 2 billion. [[Applause]] At the time when the last minister in the government of PO-PSL was - who was then - Mr Adam Korol, this budget reached about PLN 1 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, a 2-fold increase in the sports budget. Dear fellow countrymen, this is the great achievement of the Government of Law and Justice. [[Applause]] Sports are needed by Poles. Sports are needed by Poles, but also people with passion are needed... [[Voice from the room: Meiza.]] ...people with the temper you have, Minister Kamil Bortniczak. [[Voice from the room: Meiza.]] I can tell you that this is indeed the man who is most appropriate to have sport today in these different budgets, different projects, different programmes, plans that we are developing, pull into the future. We should also talk about what is a challenge for us. But first, I will tell you what Mr.Kamil Bortniczuk has done in this short time - because this is what this proposal should be about - in this very short time, which he manages the Ministry of Sport and Tourism. You probably want to hear this. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there has actually been an unusual occurrence in this short period of time. Well, a country that had committed itself long ago to organizing the world championship in fast chess and high-speed chess has given up and had to find a country that would organize the championship within two weeks. This information came to us on December 15th, maybe I'm wrong, maybe December 12th, 13th, somewhere these days. In two and a half weeks, also thanks to the involvement of Minister Kamil Bortniczuk... [[Voice from the room: Meizy.]] ...this championship has been organized so that today I receive the praises of the president of the world chess federation. That doesn't count, does it? [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Second thing. The 3rd European Games, a very important event. However, many entities, many central entities related to the activities of the Treasury companies, had to be integrated. Here very good actions of Prime Minister Sasin, but also Krakow, the city of Krakow, we know who is in charge there, the Małopolska voivodship and the Silesian voivodship, and so many entities. These actions, this dot over and, but also those activities of the character of a fully developed plan for the organisation of the European Games, the 3rd European Games, were carried out by Mr Kamil Bortniczuk, Minister Bortniczuk. A really specific guy, very precisely developed a plan and week after week, giving me a report on what he did, led to such an end that in a few days we are signing final documents in Krakow. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the courtroom: For the premiere.]] [[Voice from the room: With the Mass.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A really good, very good minister, because we have big challenges ahead of us - XXIV Winter Olympics. That's what we should focus on. The Olympic Games in Paris. That's what we should focus on. Let the minister focus on what is most important for athletes today. He serves them, he makes sure they're as prepared as possible, in the area where the Ministry of Sport can take care of them. This year in Poland is the World Championship of Women in Volleyball, next year - the World Championship of Men in Handball. These are very important sports events. Minister Kamil Bortniczuk immediately took all the action, and there are a lot of them that need to be carried out in order to prepare such big events in the right way. He's a very good minister in this place. Thank you, Minister. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, competitive sport, team sport, sport that gives us this joy when we sit on our faces in front of televisions, it's one thing, but a very important thing is unworkable sport, general sport, sport for young people. Minister Kamil Bortniczuk and his team, also with Minister Anna Krupka, Minister Jack Osuch, are doing a great deal to promote this sport. A flagship project, from which you will account for us maybe in a year and a half, in two years' time, are multi-purpose sports halls. A thousand such halls in the next 5 and 7 years we would like to place under the direction of Minister Bortniczuk in municipalities, small towns, small towns. They're multipurpose halls. Rain, winter, salt, snow, good or bad weather - these halls will serve girls and boys in thousands of Polish communes, Polish districts. It's an extremely important project. I don't know if my father... I don't know exactly if you invented this project, Mr. Kamil Bortniczuk, but he came to me with this project, this project he presented. [[Applause]] and this project will serve Poles in all municipalities and all powiats. But there are also many other budgets he fought for. Sports budget for disabled people - this is Minister Kamil Bortniczuk. A budget for sport for children, as well as a great project Team100 for the century of independence, which today is used by thousands of athletes, thousands of Olympics, athletes, trainers. Was there such a program in the times of PO-PSL? [[Voice from the room: There wasn't. Zero.]] Of course, there was no such program. Of course, today this program will serve the success of Polish athletes, and I am convinced that in team sports we will also be able to achieve greater success. Because we are putting more and more money on sport - sport for children, sport for young people. And also that charge that came out here, which is important because it involves health, mental health, physical health, children and young people... It's about e-sport. Ladies and gentlemen, through e-sport, we want to get our children out of the house. We don't want them in front of this computer without state programs, local programs, but specialists tell us this path, they say, "Be there to pull children out of the screens, monitors, TVs, computers right on the pitches, right into the sports halls. This path is presented here by experts. [[E-sport is about sitting in front of the monitor.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am convinced that Minister Kamil Bortniczuk will face these great challenges in terms of sports infrastructure and promotion of sport among Poles, that thanks to such a dynamic minister who really treats it with passion, with great temperament and does not deserve to throw such a steak of calumnia, discourses, innuendo, what has happened here... You should apologize from this point on for this motion, which is an absolutely impossible request. [[Sorry about the Mass.]] Minister Bortniczuk really is a very good minister who can still perfectly show what he can do in the Ministry of Sport. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Each team is more than just components, individual ministers. The sum of this team is much more than that. I am convinced that thanks to the actions, also thanks to the passion, the interests of Minister Kamil Bortniczuk, our team, the Government of Law and Justice, is enriched with additional competences, energy, dynamics in activities which will certainly translate into better use of sport for the sake of Poland, for the sake of Poles, also for the sake of Polish patriotism. Thank you very much. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u687	Thank you, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Act - Energy Law (prints No 1892 and 1904). I ask Mr Peter King to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u688	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I present a report by the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Act - Energy Law, print No 1892. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, on 29 December 2021, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets for first reading. The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 11 January 2022, invites the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u689	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u690	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, All of you, ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position on the club's draft law amending the Energy Law Act. This is the position of our club, but this is also a draft law of our club. I represent the applicants and present a position which coincides with our position as initiators of this amendment in the Act. The aim of this project is to eliminate local gas monopolies. Such monopolies exist in dozens of municipalities in the country, affecting tens of thousands of households. I come from the Poznań agglomeration. One such monopoly exists in our agglomeration, in the municipalities: Tarnowo Podgórne, Dopiewo, Buk, Kaźmierz, Opalenica, Grodzisk Wielkopolski, but such places are also located for example. in Puck in Lower Silesia, in the Wrocław agglomeration, in other places in Wielkopolska. The purpose of this law is to deregulate such local zones, closed zones in which companies, using the situation of the actual monopoly, sometimes unjustifiedly, and recently scandalously charged the very high gas costs of the inhabitants of these areas. At the end of September, e.g. in the Poznań agglomeration price increases were 170% which, of course, has affected many people who are deeply affected by this situation. A social protest committee was established. On the one hand, they outraged the prices. As I said, almost double the price increase by 170%. But there was a second element, one can say, dignity, because this gas infrastructure in the Poznań agglomeration was created as a result of the social work of the committees. As I said at the committee meeting, I remember this work because one of such committees in the municipality of Kaźmierz in Sokolniki Małe was led by my uncle Mieczysław Piotrowski. With great effort, the inhabitants of the Poznań agglomeration created this infrastructure to ensure the availability of gas in households. Unfortunately, as a result of the very unwise actions of the authorities of the municipality of Tarnowo Podgórne from the Civic Platform, this infrastructure was sold. It was a highly unwise act and the word 'unreasonably' is a word here, it seems to me, and so very delicate, all the more so given that the money from the sale was spent on the construction of the local swimming pool. One person protested during this sale ten years ago, she was Councilwoman Barbara Nowak of Law and Justice. The Social Protest Committee has prepared a bill that has become the basis of our legislative initiative. In some respects, this law has been supplemented and presented to the High House. I am pleased that, despite the sometimes slightly polemic tone of the energy committee meeting yesterday, the votes were positive. I am pleased that there is a consensus that this legal situation, these local monopolies, will weaken, deprive the rule that allows the expectations of the inhabitants to change the gas seller infinitely. I hope - and I would like to ask the High House - to continue this work as quickly as possible. I hope that this law will be adopted quickly in the Seym, in the Senate, and at least to some extent improve the situation of the inhabitants of these areas, the inhabitants who suffer from local gas monopolies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u691	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Waldy Dzikowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u692	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, this bill was prepared by the residents who formed a protest committee in connection with drastic increases, and I spoke about it in current questions. It is about increases in about 50 municipalities, among others. in the municipality of Tarnowo Podgórne, in my family's commune, which I had the pleasure of being the mayor, where the network that Mr Wróblewski spoke about was actually built at that time. Mr Wróblewski is right that I am in favour of this project, only that the way and justification are completely different. What Mr Wróblewski said is a complete manipulation of the justification. Firstly, from this point of view, I wanted to thank those residents who really wanted to come out of this fuel crisis, a crisis which, in fact, had just come out of these 50 municipalities, including. In my community. From this point on, thank you very much and thank you for trying to find a way out of this situation. This project or the adoption of this project does not, of course, change the situation in which the inhabitants of Tarnowo Podgórne and other municipalities are located. It doesn't change because it's a technical project and it doesn't depend on any, so to speak, on the abolition of monopolies, but on something else entirely, namely the abolition of lips. 3b of Article 4h, which was introduced - and now listen to the state - by the Law of 20 May 2021. Mr Wróblewski was probably one of the applicants for this paragraph, exactly then, with the power to enter into force on 1 July. So the residents found the mistake that the applicants made, and they gave them the project to make up for their mistake. It is not art to first introduce this paragraph, which actually extends the path of changing the gas supplier or selling the gas. Abolishing that mouth. 3b makes this road to changing the gas fuel seller shorter. Therefore, Mr Wróblewski, you first introduced him, and now you boast that you want to remove him. This isn't some big play. So that I think that today the problem is mainly the price of gas fuel, which is the fuel from Polish mines. 95% prices of this fuel, which was more expensive then almost 170% than in other tariffs than in other parts of Poland, i.e. 100% the final account with a particular recipient - that was in October. Today is a completely different situation. It used to be actually twice the price difference, approx. 11 gr more e.g. in my community than in other parts of our country. But today the situation is completely different. The difference is only 3 gr, i.e. PGNiG sells after 18 gr, and this local company sells after 21 gr, kept this price. Only that the situation is completely different with regard to issues relating to the sale of gas to entrepreneurs, Mr President. Do you know how much gas is sold in other parts of the country? Almost 700% More expensive, or about seventy-seven cents a kilo an hour. And in my community and in the others you said it was a monopoly - 40 gr. Answer the entrepreneurs: What is it like? What's bigger - 75 gr or 40 gr? That was the situation in October. It turned out that after a few months these prices had evened out and in some cases even doubled. I'm the one who'd rather have a 40 gr gas than a 70-dollar dime. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, of course, we support this project because it corrects the error that PiS made in May, 20 May 2021. And thank you again to the residents for detecting this error and giving it to the applicants to admit their mistake. I am glad that today, with our help and the care of the inhabitants, this project will be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u693	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u694	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It is a good thing that, although in the crisis, we can talk about various faulty situations that are theoretically different and in practice different. Gas distributors who have some kind of network have customers are actually monopolisists. In theory, any recipient can find such a distributor in any part of the country. And in practice, it looks like, first of all, it's hard to find, because it's about administrative matters, and the proximity of service, and many other aspects that decide that we're at the distributor we're at. And secondly, when it comes to such a distributor, entry is simple, the way out is not simple, because our rules theoretically allow for such behavior, but in practice it is extremely difficult. I'd like to focus on the bureaucracy that's real. We have the Energy Regulatory Office. He deals not only with gas distribution issues, but also with issues of Polish energy. We have examples that investors want to legalize their investments, there are appeals, we don't know, after a few years. The Energy Regulatory Office is inefficient. The same thing happens when you connect to photovoltaics. No one understands that there is a connection, and suddenly there is a refusal, all legal matters are settled and there is a refusal to join and the refusal to operate such an institution. This, of course, makes these monopolies feel great, customers cheated, investors always in uncertainty about whether this investment will come out or not. After all, the Energy Regulatory Office should introduce an investment order, maintain some dynamics of these investments, because Poland must develop. And that ends with bureaucracy, holding back. And that also applies to the appeal process against these decisions, because they go to court and the next few years are going on in court. With such dynamics of development, it is a miracle of God that we have some network that functions, and that e.g. Photovoltaics in another field - but this concerns the Energy Regulatory Office - is developing in some way in Poland. This, of course, comes out in such crises, but this is a good time for us to try to change this situation more systematically, be prepared for real behaviour and customers, and distributors, and at the same time have a powerful system that makes these investments in the economic field of gas network construction and distribution or renewable energy... It's just not just in the throat issues, as it is now, but in the everyday regulations. The modern state demands it. Unfortunately, the Regulatory Office doesn't work here. I would also like to stress that this solution, which we propose, is that it is enough to submit an application to the office and we are already starting a different legal situation, will not solve the situation. If anyone thinks we're gonna give this legal opportunity and tomorrow all the distributors are gonna be scared and cut the price, and people are gonna walk away because they're gonna have the conditions, we're wrong. Well, we're just making excuses as a parliament that we're going towards some favorable solution for our clients, but we're not going because it's just patching a hole. If we do not solve this problem systematically, there is no way to regulate it in any way for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u695	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u696	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We will support this bill because I personally am very close to this idea. We're talking about gas pipeline committees, and I'm from a town where my dad organized a group of residents in 1963 and gassed the whole village together with his own forces. Without any subsidies, without any funds, without the European Union, they did it themselves, the inhabitants themselves digged ditches, put pipes down, there was a welder who was welding. Today, of course, he manages PGNiG, but it was one of the first towns that had available natural gas in that region. Today, this discussion that we are discussing here - my predecessor also spoke about it - should be about what awaits us when it comes to gasification. As far as the availability of gas is concerned, gas has been indeed an alternative fuel so far and the inhabitants have moved from coal, wood, other things to gas, and this has been a good solution. What is happening at the moment does not indicate a good perspective, because we ourselves do not have a vision of how this is going to work, how the energy system is going to work at all. In our country there is no idea, because even the discussion, Prime Minister Sasin's speech indicates that we are still using some spells. First we started spreading superstitions about renewable energy, windmills, that it was bad. The whole world puts up windmills, and we say it's bad. And we blocked the totally good solution, instead of looking for an alternative here, so if there were mistakes, then fix them. And right now we're just saying that maybe it's childish saying that the wind doesn't blow and the sun doesn't shine. So what? The question is, what? So let's look for solutions that will cause us to use the sun when it shines and the wind when it blows. Because if we say that in every speech... And it's the Prime Minister who comes out and says things like that. I'm not surprised if it's someone who's unwittingly talking, but the Prime Minister? When we're going out with a proposal, with some solutions? 140 years? You want to lead to zero? The wind doesn't blow, the sun doesn't shine. Thinking like that doesn't give us any perspective. The current will be more expensive if we don't move on to renewable energy sources. It's obvious. Everyone knows that, and we do some spells here because we're afraid of something. What are we afraid of? Even what was good was blocked. Now look. For many years it was said: Pawlak, Pawlak signed a contract. And you know what? Somehow there's peace at the moment, no one's talking about Pawlak saying that Pawlak signed a bad gas deal. What happened? That deal was good, giving you the possibility of stable gas security. Of course, there may be other conditions at the moment, but if there wasn't an agreement, then the situation we have right now, we could have had much earlier. And I think that's what you're getting at right now, because you politically wanted to show that you're better. Where are you better? Tragedy right now, armagedon for entrepreneurs, because there's nothing we can do. The Prime Minister said: "Nothing can be done, the European Union does not allow us. So what? The question is, what? And what are entrepreneurs supposed to do? So you have to have a vision, but a long-term vision, because there's going to be another crisis, another pandemic, and what? Question is, what? You want Poles to die out because we're powerless? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u697	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u698	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act - Energy Law, after presentation of the report of the committee. High Izbo! The draft law introduces changes in the area of the right to refuse to provide gas-fuel distribution services. The adoption of these provisions will result in a realistic possibility for customers connected to small gas networks to change the seller. This applies in total to a small group of municipalities, about 50 with Tarnow Podgórny. It is worth noting that the Polish Member from Wielkopolska Paulina Hennig-Kloska was very interested in this matter and was a supporter of the inhabitants, because it is also a project from the inhabitants. At the same time, it is a picture of the rule of law and justice in a pill. These bad rules were in fact the idea of Law and Justice six months ago: they invented, passed, and now they're fixing. The question is whether this should be the case, whether there should be a very in-depth debate, analysis, consultation and then such things could be avoided. The question is whether this will solve global problems with gas prices. Surely not, these regulations will not solve the basic problem. Today, Poles receive information that for gas they will pay horrendous prices. Alerting information comes from businessmen. The increase in gas prices is up to 600 and 800%. Small family businesses cannot benefit from tariffs other than corporate tariffs. They are forced to pay very high prices for gas. The question is, should it look like this, that small family businesses operating at 20 m2 pay the same amount of gas as big companies. The question is whether the government intends to take any action at all on this matter. There is a local government group in Podbeskidzie - 300% increases in competitive proceedings. City of Bielsko-Biała in 2021 - 1850 thousand. for gas, and in 2020 - 5600 thousand, this is 300% of the increase. It's kindergartens, schools, nursing homes, social services. Resources of the Housing Management Facility, ca. 1250 dwellings - increase 60%. One of the housing communities also in Bielsko-Biała - 108% raises. This is the case throughout the region of Podbeskid (The Bell), Silesia Cieszyński, Żywiecczyzna, pszczyńska, powiat bielski. A question for the Minister. Is there something you're gonna do about it? Will you finally wake up because these really small actions aren't gonna change anything. You deprive people of the basic energy they need. We call for change, of course we will support the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. Time - 1 minute. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I would like to ask the Minister and I would very much like to ask for a written reply on the use of these small family businesses operating to a small extent from gas tariffs. On the one hand, the government says, government representatives say: let the entrepreneurs declare that they want to use these tariffs, but in fact the monopolistic position of PGNiG causes and the procedures that this company provides make it impossible. The question, therefore, is whether the government intends to do anything about this so that these small family businesses, very often having a small production range, but still using gas, can benefit from tariffs that concern individual consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u699	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u700	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At first glance, the proposed change seems beneficial to the consumer, but after reading the justification, the spell seems to be splashing. In practice, a company refusing to provide services has no impact on the time of its decision by the URE. The service provider in the proposed solution may not refuse to provide services until the decision is taken by the URE, which also has no influence. What if the URE decision is bad for the recipient? Will the recipient in such a case bear the costs of imposing an obligation to provide services on the supplier? Will the recipient of services be entitled to claim compensation from URE in case of delay in issuing decisions? If I could kindly ask the Minister for a written reply, I would be very obliged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u701	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis. There's no envoy. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. There's no envoy. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Krzysztof Truskolaski. There isn't. Aleksandra Gajewska. There isn't. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u702	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You're introducing a bill that's supposed to help eliminate local gas monopolies. The customer will be able to conclude a contract for the supply of gas with different competing operators. It's a step in the right direction, just a little too late. The inhabitants have already received gas price increases of up to several hundred percent. As the Civic Coalition, we have filed a bill that will block a few hundred percent increase for residents. I'd like to ask why the Sejm isn't working on our project today. Or just because the opposition made it? Let me introduce you to this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u703	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u704	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have an indirect question about the distribution of gas and monopolists. Well, 4 months ago, the theory was to end reporting to CEEB, the Central Registration of Buildings, to the citizens of Poland, which I burned. And it was probably the easiest thing to do for those who smoked or had heating or any other source of electricity, or for those who had gas. But a lot of people won't admit to what they smoke because they burn coal or worse, and now they're gonna burn it with gas increases. That duty ended four months ago. The basic part of people didn't come forward, it's probably hundreds of thousands, not millions, people, and the part that came forward, and for example. She said she was smoking coal, she could get punishment. I'm asking how in this complex situation, as far as gas energy is concerned, the government will react. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's the Central Office of Building Emissivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u705	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u706	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It's unusual for me to start by saying that Marshal Terlecki has exceeded the rules of the Sejm. Mr Sasin's speech was 25 minutes longer, and he turned us off at the last second with a 1-minute question. It is therefore worth deceiving all that Prime Minister Sasin has said. First of all, we're talking about helping entrepreneurs in the gas business. Those high bills should be lower. And the project that the Civic Coalition has submitted should be examined, which she spoke about, among others. Mrs Chmiel. In the explanatory memorandum to this project, which you presented today at the point on support for sensitive institutions, the Government Legislative Centre indicated that the same tariff rates for all were fixed by France. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And in this respect, this means that Poland can set equal tariff rates. Prime Minister Sasin lied, saying that President Trzaskowski could establish for buildings which are communities, other tariffs and there would be no such expensive electricity. That's when Prime Minister Sasin lied. Prime Minister Sasin lied, saying that there was no European Council or Energy Council of the European Union in 2014, when Poland was opposed to such an indication, to what extent Poland would participate, among others. in energy and clean air solutions. Minister Sasin did not answer the question about transferring the money from the certificate of PLN 60 billion to the budget and not investing them in the matter of energy. It failed to report a 6 billion return on Gazprom as a result of the judgment of the Court. Finish it, Member. He didn't tell me. He pointed out that there was no possibility of helping entrepreneurs. It is important to go as far as France is concerned to help entrepreneurs. After all, the beneficiaries of the measures that flowed from the trade in certificates, emissions... That's sixty-fifty billion zlotys. Taxpayers haven't felt it so far. Thank you very much, Member. And for Turów we already pay 50 million euros of punishment. Thank you very much, Member. And he also did not really say as regards the Fit for 55 arrangements as regards the fact that Prime Minister Morawiecki agreed to this solution. Thank you very much, Member, really. Entrepreneurs should be helped. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u707	Thank you very much. I ask you to answer the questions, because that was the last question, Minister Piotr Grandpa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u708	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to say a few words about the fact that the Ministry of Climate and Environment strongly supports the proposed draft law on the amendment of the Energy Law Act and the proposed solutions presented by Mr Wróblewski. Ladies and gentlemen! Short enough not to prolong. This very important law will allow access to the market for gas consumers, i.e. it will actually introduce competition. The operator, the owner of the network, must, on the basis of this regulation which is proposed, allow the seller to use the network. This is a very important element that, as I said, will introduce real competition. This will also lead to a situation where the customer will be able to change supplier and will be able to choose the price of natural gas from those offered by different suppliers. The bill will therefore lead to the recipient being able, as I said, to change the seller. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important law and we support the solutions proposed in this law. I would like to answer briefly the questions raised by your Members. Maybe I should start by answering Mrs Skowronska's question, which indicated that tariffs were set in France, which also included entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, it's not. This was already mentioned by Prime Minister Sasin in his previous amendment to the Energy Law Act. I stress and confirm that the solutions that were applied in France concerned tariffs, but were excluded from these tariffs of the company. And that follows, ladies and gentlemen, from EU law. That is also what Prime Minister Sasin was talking about. Here I am answering the question of the Member who asked the exact same question that the tariffing of companies is prohibited. The judgment of the TSUE clearly clarifies this issue. As far as the Central Register of Buildings question is concerned, reports to the base are due in mid-2020. This is an obligation that applies to every citizen. As for the other two questions that have been asked, we are obliged to provide written answers and we will. I am referring to the questions of Mr Suchon and Mr Shopiński. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u709	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Strategic Reserves and some other laws (prints Nos 1906 and 1910). I ask Mr Tadeusz Chrzan to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u710	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present a report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Strategic Reserves Act and some other laws, print No 1906. Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 11 January 2022, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for first reading. The proposed amendments to the revision of the Strategic Reserves Act aim at extending the catalogue of created and maintained strategic reserves. The creation of the draft amendment is due to the fact that the current Strategic Reserves Act does not contain a sufficient level of regulation allowing rapid and efficient response in the field of police and military strategic reserves. The proposed amendment is not too extensive in its content - it contains only five articles - but it is extremely important due to the ongoing hybrid attack on our country and the organized nature of violations of Polish borders. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after first reading and considering the above draft law at its meeting yesterday, asks the High Sejm to approve this very good and very necessary project in accordance with the Government's submission, and does not make any amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u711	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u712	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the Law on Strategic Reserves and some other laws. This project was written and presented on print no. 1910. As the rapporteur said, we have worked on the bill in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. We analyzed individual records and what shows that the bill is well prepared is the fact that there were no amendments. We have adopted in the report the content of the law which was submitted by the government. So today we are investigating what has been prepared by the Minister, which has been prepared by the entire government. We also call as law and justice, as parliamentarians from law and justice, for such an important and necessary law. The aim of these changes is primarily to extend the catalogue of strategic reserves created and maintained within the framework of the strategic reserve system. Under the proposed law, the system of strategic reserves will be expanded with the previously not included explosives, weapons, ammunition and essential parts, propelling charges and military or police-purpose products and technologies. The purpose of this law is primarily to protect the Polish state from various situations which occur or may take place. Crisis management has this in itself that we always have to be prepared for situations where we strive to do so, we do everything we can to prevent them from happening. However, we must be prepared for them. When that happens, we have to be ready. This bill meets exactly the expectations I'm talking about. Let me give you a very brief reflection after the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Well, at the meeting, one of the opposition Members began to wonder why we needed this bill. After having been made clear that this law is the answer to the current situation, the opposition Member was once again amazed. He demanded, he expected an explanation of the current situation that we need such a law. I must admit, I was extremely amazed to hear such a question from an opposition officer. After all, for many months we have had a problem on the eastern border, we have a hybrid attack on the part of Belarus, on the part of Russia. We're watching, we're seeing these pictures from the Eastern border. We see how illegal migrants try to enter our country. The surprise of the opposition Member - what is happening, there is no need to make such a bill - is incomprehensible. This bill is needed. As I said, it is the answer to the current situation, the current situation above all at the eastern border. The idea is to provide the police, the military with the right materials, the right equipment when the demand comes from them. I would like to thank all the soldiers very warmly. Over 15,000. soldiers of the Polish Army every day and every night serve on the eastern border. Police, Border Guard, State Fire Department - we thank all officers for their work. I firmly believe that this bill will contribute directly to the security of Poland, the security of the Republic of Poland, but also, and maybe above all, will contribute to an increase in the level of security (the Bell) of the officers themselves, who will see that if it is necessary to supply them with equipment, with appropriate materials, they can also ask for this in addition within the framework of the system of strategic principles and such equipment will obtain. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that this bill be adopted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u713	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mateusz Bochenek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u714	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is interesting to see the urgency in which this bill is being conducted. The project went to the Sejm a few dozen hours ago. The first reading took place first thing in the morning, and now we begin our second reading. It's not an opinion project, it's an analysis project. Unfortunately, these are not standards of good law, making good law. In addition, you provide the project with a urgency clause and a constant argument that you are releasing this express in the interests of citizens' safety. We learn from the project that strategic purchases of weapons, ammunition, explosives, propelling loads and military or police-purpose products and technologies are to be carried out by a strategic reserve agency with no experience in this area. The question is whether the adoption of the bill will result in the creation of a new branch in this agency, the employment of new employees, or whether the agency has specialists in the field of such a professional assortment, or whether the agency is prepared to carry out this task immediately, this staff member, this specialist. I would like to add further, because I think it is also important that a few weeks ago we adopted a programme to modernise uniformed services. At that time, no one mentioned the intention of the agency to take over a certain area, and yet this program was about the purchase of weapons by the proper services, the police, the Border Guard, those who today guard security at the border. Unless it's an idea that's been born in the last few days, because at least these facts could tell us that. But the question, which naturally arises, is why this task cannot be carried out even by the Military Property Agency, having and experience, and developed procedures, permits, as well as the necessary concession. After all, the service is using this agency today, the Military Property Agency. It's incomprehensible what this is all about. The Minister wishes to delegate new tasks to an agency that has no experience in this area. But it is this agency, attention, that will not be subject to the concession law, and the Military Property Agency I mentioned, only that it is subject to the law, and it has an important concession. And the Minister wants to make some kind of breach in the concession system. However, for a moment I will return to today, in fact, yesterday's committee meeting, at which the Minister said that the project had been passed by the Council of Ministers, and therefore was accepted by the ministries, and in fact that was the end. But you didn't mention, among other things. the comments made by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, which include, for example, such a statement that the entry into force of a provision excluding the possession of a concession by the Agency for Strategic Reserves will lead to unlawful trading of the licensed assortment. In addition, there is currently no legal basis for a trader to accept the Governmental Assortment of the Strategic Reserve Agency by contract, regardless of the fact that the Agency is given the power set out in the draft Article. 16. Once again, I will refer to the absence of representatives of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration and national defence, who should attend this meeting, because it is the units under their control that are responsible for this project. There weren't even representatives of these ministries. We have not received, as I mentioned, opinions or analyses. It's not serious, it's professional, it's responsible. Perhaps you, Minister, are interested in militaries, and we will not go into that at all, but this is not a sufficient argument to justify the absence of representatives of the departments directly concerned. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We should also know the position of the police responsible for controlling the arms market, the illicit trafficking of weapons. As far as you are concerned, representatives of the Ministry often appear, even very numerously, and this time the Minister is alone as if he were responsible for all armed forces. Finish your work, sir. Therefore, in the spirit of responsibility for security, we expect comprehensive information, opinions and responses from the relevant departments. This area is too important to be treated so unprofessionally. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u715	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u716	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Members' Left Club, I have the honour to present to the High House our position on the draft law amending the Law on Strategic Reserves and some other laws. As my previous speaker said, today we are debating the project at an express pace. I wanted to say: yesterday, but we are already after midnight, so I will say: the project went to the Sejm the day before yesterday, after several hours the first reading took place, and today after midnight we are debating in the second reading. The project has no opinions, no expertise, and it can be said, Minister, that this is not the case. We are working on this project so quickly because someone has forgotten some solutions, and it can be said simply: he has forgotten that the strategic reserves are also to purchase ammunition, weapons and explosives. As you have said, Minister, at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, for several months - and we are all watching this - we know that today, at the Polish-Belarusian border, we have combat-related activities, we can say, a hybrid one. The proposed solutions are aimed primarily at the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency to complement stocks used by uniformed services such as the Police, Border Guard or the military, so that purchases can be made quickly and then transferred. Today, as you have also mentioned, the agency has made such purchases for over PLN 300 million, including PLN 200 million spent on licensed purchases. Today, the current Strategic Reserves Act does not contain sufficient regulation to allow rapid and efficient response in the field of police or military strategic reserves, and therefore, as regards crisis situations, this need was the result of this law. This situation, as I have already said, required and requires the rapid purchase and release of appropriate equipment for the army, the police, the Border Guard, and perhaps the answer to this expectation is this bill. In one part of the explanatory memorandum we are talking about hybrid war and border threat, but in the other part you are also talking about internal, domestic situations. Therefore, our concerns are raised, let us say that these purchases will not serve against citizens inside the country. The government's new strategic reserve programme from 2022 to 2026 proposed the need to include in the strategic reserves an assortment of weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technologies. Therefore, our doubts arise, which will eventually be bought: whether weapons and ammunition or other licensed equipment, especially since from this justification which we have, it appears that only the Czech Republic and Finland have such solutions in terms of strategic reserves carried out by their agencies, such as those proposed and today given to us by the States. In other countries, however, this is done in a different way. The Commission could not fully explain the financial consequences of this law at its meeting. On the one hand, you say that there will be no such effects, and on the other hand there is a provision that says that the amounts involved in possible purchases from manufacturers of arms, ammunition, explosives and their storage have not been fully estimated. Because today it can be said explicitly that the agency is not prepared for this, as also mentioned by my previous speaker. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! Minister! However, in view of the fact that this law is necessary that the security of the country is important, my club will not vote against this law, my club will abstain from voting on this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u717	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u718	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the coalition club Poland - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Marek Biernacki's Conservatives in relation to the draft law on strategic reserves and some other laws contained in the sejm print No. 1906. It is a pity that we are discussing such an important project at an hour. 1 a.m. with so few Members in the House. The draft law extends the catalogue of strategic reserves, giving the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency the opportunity to purchase weapons, ammunition, explosives, projectiles and military or police-purpose products and technologies. This amendment is carried out in a way that is too fast, because, as my previous speakers mentioned here, we received a seismic printing the day before yesterday evening, and in fact yesterday morning the AiSW committee was sitting and leaning on this project. In the explanatory memorandum to the Act we read, quote literally: "The possibility of creating strategic reserves in the range of weapons, ammunition, explosives, propelling loads and military or police-purpose products and technologies will allow for a more effective response to any needs related to the functioning of the State, in particular to facilitate a rapid response to possible hybrid threats.' But I would like to remind you that hybrid threats arose in July. Of course, they are still ongoing, but the first threats and signals about these threats appeared during the holiday period, as I mentioned, in July. Security is the most important thing, and concern for it is the right one, which I stress with great care and great emphasis. The professionalism of our services is at a very high level, and adopted modernisation programmes strengthen their potential and capabilities for operation and operation. The question therefore arises, Minister, what has happened that it is necessary to give new powers to extend the purchase assortment of the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency. After all, so far the military and the police have made these purchases. So you might wonder, or you might ask, what happened. Were these obligations wrongly fulfilled, that this opportunity, this range of purchases, needs to be extended? Only the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs leaned on the bill, and given the scope and subject matter of the purchase, we believe that the Committee on National Defence should also comment on this issue. However, the joint meeting of the committee did not take place and neither the Minister of Administration and Home Affairs nor the Minister of National Defence presented an official position on the purchases they had so far supervised. In fact, there's been a breach. So far, there's been a rule that the gun is bought by the person who uses it. By giving the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency the opportunity to extend the purchase of an assortment to include weapons, ammunition, explosives and flames, there is de facto circumvention of the budgets of these formations that I mentioned. It may not be reprehensible, but it's definitely unclear. The rules of distribution and storage raise some doubts. It is all the more important for the Minister of Administration and Home Affairs and the Minister of National Defence to express their views on this issue and to point out whether such support is really needed. Ministers should also put forward an official position, even though this project was - as the Minister said in the committee - assessed by the Council of Ministers. It seems to us that, despite all this, ministers of administration and home affairs and national defence should speak on this issue. In addition, the Article shall be amended. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point (1) (a) c and point (a) is added. ♪ and Article 2 is amended as follows: Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 2. These changes extend the list of indications that entrepreneurs have to fulfil in order to store new types of strategic reserves. This also requires some clarification to eliminate possible ambiguities or abuse or illicit trafficking. Therefore, it seems to us that when it comes to the possibility of purchasing a wider range by the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency, due to the sensitivity and sensitivity of matter - because weapons and ammunition are just such matter - an additional element of control of purchase by the relevant services should apply, e.g. CBA or ABW, and this record should be included in the bill. In conclusion, the position of my club, Minister, will depend on the Minister's reply to the doubts raised and the questions asked. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u719	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u720	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! January 11th, Tuesday, late evening. Many Members have accidentally learned about the 1906 printing, the unexpected meeting of the committee related to it and the rapid process of the draft law on strategic reserves. It's crazy fast. It's not even a seymous pendolino, it's a parliamentary shinkansen. That's not how you deal with laws, all the more important ones, and that's what you call them, Minister. It's not like it's seismic. It's said in Parliament that you've forgotten something, that you've missed something, but it's also audible that there must be something hidden behind this process. Several hours ago at the committee meeting, you yourself admitted: the level of distrust to us in the Polish society, in Parliament is large and I am afraid of it. This is the style of project preparation and procession that this distrust is being deepened. The plus is that, on the occasion of this project, you, Minister, have once again spoken publicly. I hope not only once, because I think you're still responsible for the program. This law, as we have heard, aims to extend the catalogue of reserves created and maintained within the framework of the strategic reserve system. This system will be expanded to include not yet included explosives, weapons, ammunition and their essential parts, projector charges and military or police-purpose products and technologies. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 will abstain in the vote. In conclusion, I ask you to answer the question which one of the lawyers addressed to me after the committee meeting today. I don't really see the point of this amendment. The military and the police should ensure all of this on their own, within their own budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u721	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. First, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u722	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask what control mechanisms will be subject to the agency's purchases in this area. Will purchases be made through tenders on general terms? Will they be classified, or will they be excluded from the tenders, from the designated suppliers, which has already been publicised by the media in the case of arms purchases? Does this act actually aim to increase the security of the country, or is it merely to ensure that the sites of the arms group and certain suppliers are provided with the source of uncontrolled orders and the possibility of non-stop commercial contracts? I ask kindly, Minister, for a written reply. Poles may have significant doubts about purchasing in the framework of strategic reserves. These doubts are called ventilators. I personally received an answer concerning the number of ventilators and how much (the bell) was paid for them, almost a year after asking about this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u723	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis. There isn't. Member Tadeusz Tomaszewski. There isn't. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski. There isn't. Mr Artur Łącki. There isn't. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u724	Minister! I have a very short question. In the explanatory memorandum you write that this law will allow the agency to conclude contracts, among others. for the storage of weapons and ammunition, therefore, I have a question: Are you already having discussions with potential companies that can store, or even with the plants that produce these weapons or ammunition? How many rooms does the agency rent to other companies today due to the need to store materials or products at its disposal? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u725	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mateusz Bochenek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u726	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, I will repeat the question of not taking into account the comments made by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration: Why have these comments not been taken into account? Why were representatives of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration as well as the Ministry of National Defence not involved in the committee's work? Anyway, why weren't these meetings connected at all? I would like to draw your attention again to those aspects which the Ministry of the Interior and Administration raises, for example with regard to the conduct, whether these provisions could lead to the unlawful marketing of the licensed product range. The question is also that the State is exempt from the concessions of the agencies. Will there also be an exclusion from the concession (the bell) of the sale of strategic reserves? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u727	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, the Head of the Office of the Prime Minister of Minister Michał Dworczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u728	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is indeed an important project, which is important because it responds to the current needs that arose from the hybrid attack that we are dealing with at the Polish-Belarusian border. Thank you for sitting this committee today or yesterday actually, for all the comments and discussions we have made on this subject. I hope that at least some of the questions have been answered and resolved by your parliamentarians, while I will try to answer those that have been formulated outside of those where written answers have been requested. Firstly, as regards the doubts about the procedure for the process of this project, I would like to stress that the project was and is being examined in accordance with the applicable rules, and that the doubts raised about the fact that the Ministry of National Defence or the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration did not comment on this matter are unfounded, because both at the stage of the preparation of the project and at the stage of the adoption by the Council of Ministers of this project, representatives of both of these departments were present. The question raised here is why the law firm of the President of the Council of Ministers presents this project. Because, in accordance with the applicable regulations, the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency is directly under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers and, on behalf of the President of the Council of Ministers, supervised by the Head of the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers, we are the right person to present such a change. As regards the question of the fact that no joint committees have met: Administration and Home Affairs and National Defence, please forgive me, but the government has no influence on the organisation of the Sejm's work and I can only repeat that the sole host of the issue of the marketing of licensed materials is the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, so there was no formal reason or formal justification. Your question was whether there was really a need for the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency to have competence in purchasing and transferring licensed materials, why the Military Property Agency, the Police, the Border Guard or the military could not do so. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, we have adopted changes in the law that allow the Government's Material Reserve Agency in crisis situations, in extraordinarily situations, to obtain various types of equipment, not only licensed, we are talking about this only today, but various types of equipment that is necessary to remedy such situations on a non-trade basis, and this makes it possible to purchase a given assortment quickly and effectively. Of course, this can always raise doubts, which is why it is the control of the Supreme Audit Chamber, it is possible to carry out a parliamentary review. We try to ensure that all the activities, all the procedures that we carry out under the RARS, are carried out transparently and we have nothing to hide. He asked why all the comments made by the Ministry of Interior and Administration were not taken into account. Well, Mr President, this is quite common practice, or maybe it is often the case that during the work on the project at the level of SKRM, the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers, or later the Council of Ministers, some of the comments from the ministries are taken into account, and so was the case, and some are rejected or postponed for further discussion. Indeed, time has been an important factor here, and we are aware, as I also mentioned at the committee meeting, that the reformed Government Strategic Reserve Agency for 2 years will still need to change and adapt to current needs and current situations, current challenges, the current geopolitical situation. Today, of course, we can complain that many actions could have been carried out earlier, but let us be honest, history has accelerated greatly over the last two years and both the pandemic and the situation at the Polish-Belarusian border teach us humility and show that we really should as a state and as a whole region be prepared for situations that no one seriously thought about until a few years ago. As for this time of trial, because this topic has appeared several times in your speeches, and the lack of time that parliamentarians had to read this law - I understand this argument. Let me repeat, because we have already discussed this at the committee's meeting: I would like all draft laws to be examined in such a way that each Member has the comfort of getting acquainted with the material presented or with the legislative matter presented during committee meetings or during meetings. But let us also be very clear: this project contains five articles, less than two pages of typographical paper, so despite the short time you actually had or actually had, because I am also an MEP, it seems that with such a precise and narrowly written change, although very important, you can get acquainted in this short time. So much for the questions I've been able to write down. As far as the remaining questions are concerned, the questions that were requested to be answered in writing, of course we will send the information. Oh, there was one more question about storage, the rent of space. I can say that storage outside the agency of various materials has been a practice for years and nothing changes here. E.g. Food is almost 100% stored in this way. The same is true of the fuel situation. With regard to the equipment which is currently purchased by the RARS for services on the border or for the military, this equipment is directly transferred to the services directly to the border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u729	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u730	Question: "Why cannot this task be carried out by the Military Property Agency, which has experience, has developed procedures, permits and concessions?" Instead, the Minister wishes to delegate these tasks to an agency that has no experience in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u731	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the reasons given, the purpose of the proposed law is to extend the catalogue of strategic reserves created and maintained within the framework of the strategic reserve system. The system is to be expanded with explosives, weapons, ammunition and their essential parts, propelling charges and military or police-purpose products and technologies. As such reserves should naturally be provided by the operating units, I ask the question: For what reasons do the Polish Army and the police not maintain adequate reserves of explosives, weapons, ammunition and their essential parts, propelling loads and military or police-purpose products and technologies?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u732	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for January 12th. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If so, I'm closing the list right now. Please, the first statement will be made by Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u733	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Witnesses of those days. Time. This strict judge carefully reviews the ranks of former war participants, events from decades ago. A few days ago, on 28 December 2021, Hanna Kępińska-Bazilewicz, colonel of the Polish Army, liaison officer of the National Army, well-deserved social activist, honorary citizen of Piotrków Trybunalski left. She'd be 99 on January 2. She was born in the early '20s in a family with military traditions. Her father was a senior officer, and her mom was a great pianist. During the September campaign and just after it she worked volunteerly in the hospital, caring for Polish soldiers. In 1940 she was in Piotrków. Here she established contacts with the conspiracy, and since February 1941, she has been active in the Armed Fighting Union as She went through sanitary training, then started working in communications at the Command of Diversity. She was carrying guns and illegal press. She was conducting intelligence missions, conducting reconnaissance prior to combat. In a spectacular way, in February 1944, she recognized the SS guards at Piotrków. A few days later, the guard was attacked by the Home Army guerrilla troops. Kora was arrested by the Germans and deported to Radom, where she was cruelly questioned in the investigation. She was saved by the invasion of Polish Soviet lands, but her patriotic past caught up with her here again. When she started her medical studies in Łódź in the autumn of 1945, UB came onto her trail. The repression began, the investigations that lasted for several years. After October's thaw, when the communist power slightly loosened the red corset, in which she tried to crowd the nation, began active activity, among others. with the chairman, who was her war commander, one of the silent Major Adam Trypus. Kora was also active in the historical commission, engaging in the promotion of knowledge of the actions of the Home Army soldiers during the war. In 1981, as a doctor, she was one of the founders of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union in the medical facilities of Piotrkow Trybunalski. Despite her age, she was repressed in martial law. She recorded her memories in diaries, which were repeated many times. During yesterday's funeral ceremony in Piotrków Trybunalski, Hanna Kępińska-Bazylewicz's daughter said about her dead mother: She wrote a lot and her articles appeared in many publications. In my book "I was the liaison of the Home Army " saved from oblivion many beautiful and heroic silhouettes from those angry years. But Kora is also a loving mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. She's not just a girl in a guerrilla uniform or a doctor's uniform, she's a woman. A woman in an elegant dress and heels. A woman with a storm of lovely curls, loving music, poetry and art. Loving people and animals. Loving life. Now he's probably looking at us and saying, "Dear ones, it's okay. Remember, as the tidings used to say: "It is necessary to go forward with the living, for life to reach new:/ Not in the trapped laurels a leaf/ With stubbornness to cut off your head! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u734	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u735	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! 82 years ago, patients in the mental hospital were murdered in Chelm. How did this happen? In 1912 a solid building built by the Russian authorities was located on the outskirts of Chelm. In 1932, a nervous hospital was located there. In 1938 he counted 410 beds, served sick people from Lublin and Volyn Voivodeship. On January 6, 1940, a two - person commission came to this hospital from Lublin. They watched all the sick rooms, including the children's ward. On January 12, 1940, that is exactly 82 years ago, a squad of SS soldiers arrived from Lublin in two cars in the afternoon. There were 440 patients at the hospital that day. Things went pretty fast. Soldiers armed with machine guns immediately surrounded both hospital buildings. The officer ordered the medical, nursing and administrative staff to meet immediately in front of the main building and to leave the hospital within 10 minutes. They were allowed to take away the winter covers. So doctors, nurses, and nuns left the hospital. They were ordered to run fast and not look back. Ten nurses were ordered to remain. They were tasked with bringing 10 patients outside and handing them over to soldiers who were waiting with machine guns. Terrified sick people were pushed outside the entrance of the building, where bullets were about to reach them. They were falling for an increasing pile of dead bodies. Resistance Germans chased the halls of the building, caught throwing them out windows from the first and second floors. Then another building was taken. Some were dragged out of beds in shirts, barefoot, sometimes naked. The first victims were two priests, who were just after lunch on a walk in front of the building, a Greek Catholic priest Pawłowski from Vilnius, a former scientific worker who knew several languages, and Father Jan Makulec from Garwolin. When nearly 400 patients were killed and the blood turned white snow into red, children were finally brought out. Their catch was the hardest. Some of them smashed all over the building, hid under the beds and into the closets. They saw what was happening downstairs for hours. One of them was pulled out of the closet and thrown out of the window. Some were taken directly from their beds and carried behind their underwear to death. They were waving their hands and feet at it. The view was shocking. It was dark. The SS men, taking the small patients out, let them go a little further and shoot them from the vending machine. The kids were screaming and crying when they left the building. Their voices were mixed up with a bang of gunshots. 109 women, 18 children and 304 men were murdered. Nine people were saved from the massacre. The bodies of the murdered were lying up all night, some of them frozen to the ground next to a large pool of coagulated scarlet blood. They put five or six bodies on the vans and took them to a mass grave. This was used after a bomb dropped in 1939 on a dirt road along the sand excavation of a brick factory in Horodyszcz. Within a few days, hospital buildings were prepared for the SS barracks. Three weeks later, they were inhabited by those who killed their patients. The Germans completely destroyed the hospital records. Gestapo, the SS barracks, and then, in 1941, a military hospital were located in the buildings. When the Germans settled in the hospital, families used to bring their sick, not knowing anything about the tragedy of the hospital. The Germans dressed in aprons, pretended to be doctors and paramedics. When the families were barely outside the gate, the sick were shot in a dumpster. After the war, only 22 murdered adults and 17 children were able to recreate their names. The mass grave of the victims has been preserved until today. It is 150 m away from the place of execution, commemorated with a cross and a plaque. No one's ever been held accountable. Today is the 82nd anniversary of these events. May there never be a similar tragedy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u736	Thank you, Member. Mr Maciej Kopiec, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u737	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the evening of January 2, Mrs Henryka and Mr Stefan of Rybnik met a huge tragedy. As a result of a short circuit the electrical system burned down the floor of their house. Marriage miraculously escaped death, and Mrs. Henrya is in the hospital. Mr. Stefan, who saved her life, went to the hospital in Rybnik, where he was admitted late in the evening. His blood was taken at the hospital, his blood pressure was measured, and on a winter night, he was thrown out of there in a smeared robe. The discharge said there were no clear signs of burns. A patient who has a heart attack and a pacemaker has been informed that the hospital at his expense can order him a taxi to drive him to the neighbors who took him under their roof after the fire. The burns on Mr Stefan's face and ears are still visible today. The hospital didn't even inject against tetanus. What's going on at the fish hospital? In December the year has passed since Ewa Fica, a friend of the ruling party, led by Marshal Jakub Chełstowski, led by him. He is a person with a wealth of experience, which consists of numerous conflicts with hospital staff in which he worked, renovation of a hospital unit that did not exist, starting with the support of the PiS in the election for President of Mysłowice. Mrs. Facy's motto explaining all the failures became the sentence: No one had a bad intention. Eva Fica has been bringing chaos to the fish hospital for a year. There seems to be a number of appeals from the local community and trade unions to dismiss this person from the position of hospital director. What action did she take at that time? She closed four hospital units, reduced nursing and non-medical staff, even though the hospital was struggling with staff shortages, did not pay COVID allowances to staff, declared the conditions for paying doctors on employment contracts and residents without checking how many of them were covered by the pre-retirement protection period. Last winter, COVID's staff were sentenced to use a bathroom with ice water for two weeks, and the D.A.'s office is investigating a patient, an elderly lady whose life was in danger and resuscitated because there was no doctor in the hospital ward. For these actions Jakub Chełstowski, Marshal of Law and Justice, honored Ewa Fica with the award of the Honorary Badge for Merit for the Silesian Voivodeship. Following the action taken on the hospital situation, I received a letter from Eva Fica's lawyers who asked me not to intervene. It is astonishing that the firm which sent this letter is led by former assistant Zbigniew Ziebra, and among its clients are such stars as Łukasz Mejza, Daniel Obajtek, Tadeusz Rydzyk, Zbigniew Ziobro, Kaja Godek, Cezary Gmyz, Kurski's TV, the law firm of the Prime Minister. All Kaczyński's pets remain under the protective umbrella of this firm. There are no accidents. There are only signs. That's what a closed piss system looks like. That's what a power-holding group looks like, people for nothing, going over corpses to their targets in a proud belief that they can do anything. Until then. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u738	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u739	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 1 January this year It entered into force prepared by the government and pushed by the Sejm by a legal bubel, i.e. reform of taxes under the noisy, even knocking on the knees, the name of the Polish Load. As part of the New Polish Deal about 400 thousand. pensioners, as well as teachers, uniformed officers and other employees, whose monthly salaries are paid in advance, received even several hundred zlotys lower than a month ago. At the same time, the pensioners I spoke to are outraged and grieved at the Polish state, whose officers play at their expense, and in particular that they are deprived of their years of property and receivables under empty passwords. It affected, among other things. retired managers, IT specialists, employees of universities, lawyers, doctors, accountants, as well as welders, specialist assemblers, miners and steel workers, who for several decades paid high contributions to the budget of the ZUS from their high salaries, which they earned thanks to their high qualifications and work performed longer than by statutory 40 hours a week. It is sad that within the framework of this so-called. The new Deal also became the victims of law and justice politicians retired police officers, police pensioners, justice workers, as well as former officers of other uniformed services, who throughout their service and civil work worked to protect the law, protect the lives and property of citizens, risking their lives, sacrificing their health and often their personal and family lives. On 10 January this year. I asked the Ombudsman to take action by the Ombudsman to protect the rights of Polish pensioners to their pensions and to protect pensioners from adverse and unconstitutional actions taken by the government and by the governing parliamentarians. It is not acceptable to violate the rights of acquired pensioners and to violate the constitutional principle of non-retroactivity, as the personal pension received is a consequence of both the administrative decision issued by the Social Security Office and the uniform pension authorities and the stable financial policy of the State. If the State's financial policy changes, it should change in favour of the taxpayer and not against him. It is a fundamental principle of the rule of law and a constitutional principle of justice. I hope that the Ombudsman will take a stand on this matter. Mr Morawiecki in a complex interpellation will be asked to inform you when pensioners, teachers and officers of uniform services, who, under the pretext of the Polish Government in January, received part of the payments, will receive a refund of this money and whether similar financial sanctions will not affect them in the following months or in settlements with the fiscus after the end of this year. Such a risk is shown by total chaos and dylanism in the government's tax changes which the government cannot explain to citizens even the tax administration under the authority of Mr Kościński. And in connection with almost 90% inflation, with which the government and the National Bank of Poland are totally unable to cope, I have a question for the Prime Minister: When does the government foresee inflationary valorization of pensions not only for pensioners with the lowest salaries, but also for all those affected by inflation, because every pensioner receives income? Today, unfortunately, not only does the government not value these benefits, but, as you can see, it also takes away the money previously granted to pensioners. Enough, Prime Minister, this kind of politics. Stop (Bell) taking money from pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u740	Thank you, sir. You're welcome... Mr. Tadeusz Tomaszewski isn't here, Mrs. Anna Eve Cicholska isn't here either, Mrs. Krystyna Skowronska There isn't any either. Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u741	Mr. Liberty Man! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After six years of government, we have a record of inflation, and we still have a gigatax in the form of a PiS order. It must, I'm sorry, fall. Therefore, what more clever members of the PiS already speak openly about the need for regulated prices. I decided to help them a little, and after a public consultation, I wanted to tell them how much it should cost so everyone would be happy. Do it so that the bread is 2.50 a loaf, that's a fair price - one of the Internet users proposes. I wish a kilo of doubles would cost 2 zlotys - and enjoy it. 0.7 I selected - 10 PLN after showing the identity of the sovereign - and for health. Fuel at 3.50 a liter. But why limit yourself? I suggest it be like the Sejm, for miles, for statements, and it's over. Repair of the phone after flooding and moisture - 99 PLN. Oh, that's great, 'cause my watch's flooded today and I don't think it's working. Very nice price, I support, could be 99 zloty. Cashmere sweaters should not cost more than 50 PLN. Well, it's like a bunch, I'm all for it. I'll have the donated photo ops. Who else says that? Yeah, but the fact is, photographic equipment is expensive, so you can subsidize. Why not? I want Pegasus for 29.99. PLN per month. No, I don't want to. No, this postulate is out, absolutely not Pegasus. Half a liter of rye, one dollar. My mom said it was in Pewex. Well, who cares? Meter of apartment in Warsaw: 2,5 thousands. zł - oh, this is my favorite offer at all - and it will be after the housing crisis. I wish everything was 5 zlotys less. And she's bragging, you're not greedy, you're 5 bucks cheaper, and that's enough for her. Or, to make the prices look like the Seym cafeteria. No, no, that's what you're talking about... and I'm not gonna talk about it anymore. I think everything should be after the gold and the buns after 50 gr. And that's a beautiful postulate. Why complicate your life? The cheapest thing sold in retail should cost 1 gr, so that the functioning in the circulation of these yellows of change is somehow justified. Well, there's something about that, and I'd say, you know, an ecological demand that these little things don't go to waste. Between God and the truth, free is a fair price. Well, this postulate is so philosophical, but who knows? Maybe it's worth considering. But, but - we're moving on. In addition to regulated prices, they will have to put postcards on these products in order not to create a secondary market. And that's a good point. We'll finally have something to decide in the Seym, we'll have something to do. And once there are food stamps, there will be announcements: I will trade sugar and cigarettes for bone meat. I didn't even hear that from my mom. I think it's the last time I heard from my grandma. Finally, someone proposed to return to prices before 2015. Yeah, but it's not possible without sending this bunch of economic hustlers on a very long forced vacation. So what? Can you help? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u742	Thank you. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u743	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! January 8th this year The International Trade Union Alternative in the National Tax Administration addressed the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Finance with a letter expressing his opinion on the Polish Government. In their opinion, they expressed their outrage and deep concern about what is happening around the tax reform. I appeal to the Prime Minister to make an urgent reference to the arguments put forward by the union and to make this public. I also ask you to consider and take effective measures to stop galloping inflation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u744	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The heart of the Polish Order is the good of Polish families. The tax reduction - the biggest in history - has become a fact. The success of our reform is that 18 million Poles will save nearly 17 billion PLN. These changes, introduced in the interest of Poles and Poles in the context of the fight against global inflation, are further real and real changes, felt in the wallets. We haven't forgotten the seniors and the pensioners. For 94% pensioners and over 98% Rentists who collect benefits up to PLN 4920 gross, the payment per hand is higher. It is not true that teachers' salaries have been reduced, and there has only been a miscalculation of the tax. Any errors in the calculation will be corrected in February. This applies to everyone who has done this. The Government of Law and Justice is the only one that really protects the financial needs of Poles and Poles, and I am very proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u745	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the start of the pandemic, more than 100,000 have died in our country. citizens. In 2021 more than 0.5 million people died in Poland. This is the most tragic year since World War II. The previous year - 2020 - is 477 thousand. persons. Poland is second among OECD countries in terms of excess deaths per million inhabitants. We're moving every month in these tragic statistics. According to Worldmeters. info we are on the 15th place in the world in this darkest ranking. The newest report said "Health at a Glance" confirms only the tragic scenario. More difficult weeks and months ahead of us - the predicted huge increase in infections with the omicron variant is coming. All of these numbers are the tragedy of thousands of families, not dry statistics, which Minister Niedzielski gives with a helpless voice at subsequent conferences. Most of these deaths and human tragedies are the responsibility of the PiS government. They could have been avoided. If it weren't for the tardiness and inaction of this government, most of these people would be alive today. I call on Prime Minister Morawiecki to take responsibility for the safety and life of Poles and Poles, to take decisive action urgently, to immediately implement the so-called. COVID passports. You have no right to remain passive to these tragic statistics. Because of your cowardice, your passiveness and your fear of losing a few polling points, you've become a hostage of stupidity and you've got blood on your hands.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u746	Topic of the statement: System anti-false history. For decades we have been dealing with an increase in the phenomenon of widespread forgery of history. This applies not only to the period of World War II, but it can be said that this time is particularly marked by such practices. This involves e.g. on the notorious use of the return of the Polish death camp in place of the return of the German death camp. Such and similar actions are not accidental. The scale of counterfeiting can, and should, arouse anxiety and above all stimulate active countermeasures, because if we give up this field, it may be too late in the future and we will still be a few steps behind, we will translate and appeal for correction. Falsifying history is now an important element in the conduct of hybrid wars. The beginning of the year is a good time to consider the possibility of implementing system-based, more complementary mechanisms to counter the disgraceful and disgusting misrepresentation of history. Together with the staff of my parliamentary office, we are helping to the extent possible and competent.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u747	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! At the end of January we will celebrate the 17th. International Day of Remembrance for Victims of the Holocaust, a celebration adopted in 2005 by the UN General Assembly. The date of the holiday is not accidental, because on 27 January it is the day of liberation of the Auschwitz-Birkenau camp in 1945 by the Red Army. The Holocaust as the extermination of Jews became a pillar of the German state's policy under Nazi rule. Therefore, there is no other way of dealing with this criminal activity than with the outrage of trying to throw it away, or pointing out its accomplices to other nations. In those days Poles showed extraordinary courage and stubbornness in saving the Jewish nation, which is reflected in the awards of the Righteous Among the Nations, where Poles are the majority. Although many years have passed since those tragic events, the memory of the harm that has been done is still intact. Today, the last witnesses of these gloomy times are slowly leaving, along with them memories and stories of the inhuman events they have experienced. I pay my respects and appreciation to the participants of those tragic events, living witnesses, who give testimony to all, and especially our young people, about these tragic events. This is where I would particularly like to thank all those who care that this terrible tragedy is not forgotten in our society. At the same time, I would like to express my conviction that this great tragedy in the history, history of the world must be remembered in our time. It is extremely important that we continue to build a dialogue, the foundation of which will be the truth. Let us appreciate the times in which we are living and what is Poland's position today in order to take full care of citizens' safety. Let the memory of this tragic card of history be a warning of what nationalism can lead to and the consent to hate speech toward another human being.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u748	Declaration by the Members on the deteriorating situation of public transport. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The COVID-19 Pandemic changed irreversibly our reality - professional, private or economic, with its consequences must be faced by everyone today. The Pandemic has also not missed public transport carriers. Passengers are getting less and less, not only because of fear of traveling by public transport, but also because of the popularity of remote work, multi-month closing of schools, cinemas, restaurants or theatres. Today, there are high energy prices and tax changes that will affect the finances of local governments. Some local authorities have already decided to raise ticket prices, of which passengers are dissatisfied. Public transport today benefits around 20%. less passengers than before the pandemic, and it may take another two years to return to its original state. However, these forecasts depend on many factors. The first is the further development of the fourth wave of pandemics and the spread of the new option of Coronavirus, while the second is rising electricity prices. We look at both of these factors with concern. No one can guarantee today that within two years, we will overcome the effects of the pandemic. Ticket price increases seem inevitable, and in many Polish cities they have become a fact. Self-governments are concerned not only about the lower income from PIT, but also about the lack of support from EU money, which is halted by the European Commission's negotiations with the government. The worsening situation of carriers operating in the public transport sector is worrying. The lack of support causes more entrepreneurs to withdraw from the market or change the industry to a more stable one. We must not allow a situation where the demand for public transport is greater than the possibility to provide these services.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u749	Parliamentary statement on the newly opened branch of the Lower Silesian Railways in Jaworzyna Śląska. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Rail transport in Poland plays a significant role in moving both cargo and passengers. Rail meets the needs of its users: it enables access to work, schools, universities and also allows for recreational travel. The rail network is growing from year to year and passengers are able to use an increasing number of connections. Equally optimistic is the prospect of the development of railway networks in Poland, which assumes over PLN 250 billion worth of investments in the next 20 years. The investment plan includes both the modernisation of existing lines and the construction of new ones. Both PKP PLK and railway carriers belonging to regional governments are constantly developing. This is the case with the Dolnośląskie Railways, owned by the local government of the Dolnośląskie Voivodeship. The Management Board of the company informed about the creation of a new branch in Jaworzyna Śląska, where one of the most important railway hubs in Lower Silesia is located. Jaworzyna Śląska will be the fifth location where the Dolnośląskie Railway teams will be stationed. So far there have been four facilities, located in Jelenia Góra, Wrocław, Kłodzk and Legnica, where the main seat of the carrier is located. The change is dictated by staff needs related to the purchase of new rolling stock or the launching of new railway connections. The choice of Silesian Jaworsina remains not accidental. The location and good communication contributed to the creation of a new branch of the Dolnośląskie Railways. In Jaworzyna Śląska thanks to the intersection of several railway lines it will be possible to optimize traffic and emergency response capabilities. This is excellent news for passengers who will be able to optimize their journey, but also for the carrier, which thanks to the growing number of travelers can develop. The newly opened branch in Jaworzyn Śląska will certainly contribute to the development of the Dolnośląskie voivodship, and tourists visiting our region will be able to benefit from more convenient railway connections for themselves.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u750	Declaration on the anniversary of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński's nomination. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 69 years ago, on January 12, 1953, Primate Stefan Wyszyński was appointed Cardinal. His whole life has become a symbol of opposition to evil. He was a man of deep faith and love for his homeland. The Primate of the Millennium deserved this and other honors, serving as priests during World War II, later as bishop in the initial period of communist enslavement and finally as leader of the Church in one of the countries of the Eastern block. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The 12th of January is a good opportunity to show what the beginnings of Stefan Wyszyński's ministry as a priest and bishop looked like, and to show what challenges and difficulties he faced at the threshold of his primacy service. Today, on the anniversary of this event, let us ask ourselves: Will we find the strength and courage to defend our faith today, in our daily lives? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u751	Dear Prime Minister, Since 1 January, the so-called Polish Load, which is rather a model example of traditional Polish disorder, destroys the lives of Poles and Poles. Higher taxes and legislative errors of the PiS government have resulted in significantly reduced salaries and pensions in people's accounts. Teachers, representatives of uniformed services, hardworking in other professions, experienced the effects of changes in the atmosphere of haste and unusual chaos. Lower incomes have caused problems with billing, which are growing at an alarming rate. The decisions of the Monetary Policy Council resulted in increased loan instalments. This is all in a difficult period of crazy inflation and pandemic restrictions. The government, which feeds itself, forgot that the changes introduced overnight destroy the lives of Poles and Poles and that the government is not from destroying the lives of Polish families - mothers, fathers and their children. That is why today I am asking Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to suspend tax changes. It's the only decision that can defend the honor of this government a little bit. I expect it to be taken immediately.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u752	Dear Marshal! Exactly on January 12, 1953, Pope Pius XII elevated Bishop Stefan Wyszyński to the dignity of the Cardinal. It was an expression of appreciation and support for the activities of Stefan Wyszyński as a dedicated clergyman, as well as a perfect organizer and scientist. The service of the Primate of the Millennium was not limited only to the spiritual sphere. He conducted a number of activities aimed at supporting the faithful in the following difficult times after World War II, actually shaped by communists, and rebuilding and strengthening the destroyed spiritual state in post-war Poland. Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński had exceptional modesty and diligence. He was a man characterized by a vast array of skills, sharpness of mind and fortitude of spirit. The honors and nominations he has always received with due humility and moderation, often only after a longer reflection. All the activities he was doing were directed solely at the desire to do good. His contribution to shaping the socio-political situation in the period of the Polish People's Republic, solving social tensions and caring for a better future, and consequently contributing to regaining freedom and sovereignty in the opinion of many historians are invaluable. Behind us the year 2021, which the resolution of the Polish Sejm was dedicated to the person blessed. Card. Stefan Wyszyński. Today, day 69. The anniversary of his cardinal creation, once again let us mention this great Pole in our prayers, thoughts and hearts, thanking him for his life devoted to our homeland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-sejm-46-1.u753	I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 3 p.m. 9 today, i.e. 13 January 2022 Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 1 min 41]]
