ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to appoint Mr Rafał Bochenk and Mr Robert Gontar, who will keep the minutes and the list of speakers. Mr Rafał Bochenek will be the secretary in the first part of the session. I ask Members of the Secretaries to take their seats. I consider the minutes of the 47th session of the Sejm to be accepted. I would like to inform you that on the basis of the article. 198a paragraph. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to hold a 48th meeting of the Sejm using electronic means of communication enabling distance communication. High Izbo! Please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] High Izbo! On 4 February this year. Jerzy Osiatyński, Professor of Economics, Minister of Finance, Member of the Monetary Policy Council, Member of the Sejm X and I, II and III of the term of office, died. Let's celebrate his memory with a minute of silence. [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] High Izbo! 71 years ago, Major Zygmunt Szendzielarż Łupaszka, commander of the 5th General, was shot in the back of the head in a prison in Mokotów. The Vilnius National Army Brigade. Together with him, the communists murdered three other officers, accompanied by fights: Colonel. Anthony Olechnovich ps. Pohorecki, Lieutenant. Lucjan Minkiewicz ps. Victor and Captain. Henryk Borowy-Borowski ps. Bumblebee. Let's celebrate their memory with a minute of silence. [[A moment of silence]] [[Some of the Members are leaving the room.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you very much. [[Voice from the hall: Hello and glory to the heroes!]] [[Some Members chant: Hello and glory to the heroes! Hello and praise the heroes! Hello and praise the heroes!]] [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame! Shame!]] [[Voice from the hall: Away with the commune!]] High Izbo! I would like to inform you that in connection with the expiry of the mandate of Mr Łukasz Szumowski... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. [[It's a cheerleading club.]] I would like to inform you that in connection with the expiry of the mandate of Mr Łukasz Szumowski on the basis of the article. I have decided to replace Mr Rafał Romanowski with the electoral code, who has taken the oath of a Member of Parliament. I ask the Member to approach the president's table. Ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the vows now. I solemnly vow to do my duty to the Nation, to safeguard the sovereignty and interests of the State, to do everything for the welfare of the Homeland and the welfare of citizens, to respect the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. Mr Rafał Romanowski. I promise. So help me God. Thank you very much. I state that Mr Rafał Romanowski has taken a vow of marriage. [[Applause]] Thank you. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to proceed with a quorum. I would like to ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. You're welcome. [[Prime Minister, Antoni is watching.]] [[Don't yell at the Prime Minister.]] [[Anthony's watching.]] The meeting shall be attended by 448 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. The Council of Ministers has submitted an urgent bill to assist households in the costs of changing the standard of digital terrestrial television broadcasting, print No 1989. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 73. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I decided to complete the agenda for the first reading of this draft law. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has submitted a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the law on anti-drugs and the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre, print No 1977. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles in a joint discussion of the reports in print 1927 and 1928. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the report on solidarity with Afghan citizens. The Sejm Bureau proposes that in discussions on the other items on the agenda, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave its opinion on the proposal to consider at this meeting information on the implementation of the PiS government's flagship family policy programmes, for example. Family 500+ ¿For life, good start, ¿Mama 4+ž, additional benefit of 13th pension, and a new, implemented within the Polish government, provision of family care capital, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today: - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Infrastructure - hour 11, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 11, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - Infrastructure - hour 12, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 13, - to Energy, Climate and State Assets - hour. 13, - Foreign Affairs - hour 13, - Health-- hour. 14, - Economy and Development - h.m. 16, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 4:30 p.m., - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 17, - Agriculture and Rural Development together with the Health Commission - at 3 p.m. 17, - Agriculture and Rural Development - the last one today, at 3 p.m. 18. More communications on parliamentary panel meetings: - Parliamentary Group on thoughts and works of blessed Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński - at 10 p.m. 15.15, - Parliamentary Team of Tradition and Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers - tribute on the anniversary of the murder of Major. Zygmunt Schendzielarz ps. Łupaszka in the Museum of Soldiers Cursed in Warsaw, departure at 3 p.m. 19.20, return at 7 p.m. 20.40. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u3	Thank you very much. We have formal requests. Please, Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Coalition. One minute, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to request a recess by the hour. 12 to present the official position of the government on the Fund for Reconstruction by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. [[Applause]] You introduced the highest inflation in Poland... [[Voice from the room: How do you do it?]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...you took money from Poles with this Polish shaft, you led to the collapse of hundreds, thousands of Polish small, medium-sized companies... [[Where?]] [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] ...and today, with the mouths of your prominent activists, you're talking about withdrawing from the Rehabilitation Fund. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] 250 billion PLN - this is what the Polish economy is waiting for, this is what Polish companies are waiting for, local governments are waiting for. What are you guys And you're trying to rob Poles of the money they deserve. Why? Because you are so stubborn and you do not want to admit that it is your government and your stubbornness that blocks this money (the bell) which belongs to Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u5	Thank you very much. As a formal request for adjournment has been made, I will put this proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of ordering an adjournment until 3 p.m. 12, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 220 for, 232 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal proposal from Mr Paweł Zalewski... Excuse me, Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u6	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, I submit a request for the adjournment of the meeting, the convening of the Convention and the inclusion on the agenda of a point on the reasons for the resignation and resignation of the Minister of Finance. This is a very serious matter and I think that the Prime Minister should explain to the High House why the Minister of Finance resigns this resignation and what will happen next. Let us just remind you that today we are dealing with a great inflation, a crazy price, an increase in electricity prices, an increase in gas prices. Of course, the rulers say: it is all Putin's fault, the European Union's fault, but unfortunately the truth is a little different. The truth is, it's your politics' fault. Therefore, today we ask that the Prime Minister tell us how the Polish government intends to settle public finances after the introduction of this Polish disorder. How many more changes will be made to this bill, and what will be our future when it comes to taxes in 2022? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u7	Thank you, sir. This matter was not reported at the Bureau meeting or at the Convention meeting, so I am surprised by this proposal. But since the first part of the proposal concerns a deferral, I will put this proposal to the vote. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Those of you and your fellow Members who are in favour of adjournment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 217 - for, 234 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal proposal by Mr Paweł Zalewski, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For several weeks we have been informed about Russia's aggressive intentions towards Ukraine, about the plans of war which Russia would like to carry out in the east of Poland, in the immediate surroundings. About 30,000 people are already stationed in Belarus. Russian soldiers. During this time, the Polish government continues to war with the European Union, there are voices that we are to give up the Fund for Reconstruction, which would actually mean withdrawing from the important areas of the European Union's activities. During this time, the Prime Minister is going to Madrid and officially supports Marine Le Pen, who is preaching in the election campaign that she wants to withdraw France from NATO. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] [[Don't lie to me.]] Because Poles should be told the truth, Poles should be informed. I would like to move that the session be closed and that the next session be placed on the agenda, Mrs Marshal (Dzinek), a point concerning the Prime Minister's information on the international situation and preparations for Poland's possible conflict. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u9	Mr President, this matter was discussed at the Convention meeting. I said I'd address the Foreign Minister. If he's there, that's the kind of information tomorrow. So your proposal is a little premature, sir. But I understand you're not withdrawing your motion to close the session? In that case... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: This is me with the opposite conclusion.]] A counterclaim? There you go, opposing motion, Mr Korwin-Mikke.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's a Miller's song: "What else is there to screw up here, gentlemen, what else is there to screw up here?"
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u11	Mr President, I would like to ask for a slightly different language on the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u12	... Belarus, Russia and Belarus have formed a union. And now, right now, after driving Lukashenka into Russia's embrace, we still want to screw something up. I suggest we stop acting, don't make pro-Russian movements, don't scare. Putin wants to intimidate us. Whoever threatens Russia works for Putin. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u13	Thank you, sir. As a motion to close the sitting has been tabled, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of closing the session will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 206 - for, 241 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the votes that have already been cast here, I would like to say that unfortunately, the Confederation must say: Didn't we say on the EU debt fund, on the debt of all Poles by the European Union, on the creation of new EU taxes? We talked about this. We said it was a financial loop dragged around the neck of the peoples of Europe. In a situation where the government has capitulated on this matter, and now doesn't know what to do about it, whether to back out, she simply admits to us. And it has to be said bravely. Every crisis is used by Eurocrats to strengthen their power. [[Applause]] This must be clearly opposed and Poland should be the country which this process of opposing the European Union with its totalistic aspirations will start. Let us finally be brave, let us be those (the bell) who will set a new course in Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u15	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the urgent government bill on supporting households in the cost of changing the standard of digital terrestrial television broadcasting (print No 1989). I ask the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, the representative of the government for cybersecurity of Mr Janusz Cieszyński to present the justification for the bill and all your Members... Take two minutes so you can step out of the room. Two minutes off. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min. 29 hours 10 min 32]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u16	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 1 of the agenda. I ask the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, the representative of the government for cybersecurity of Minister Janusz Cieszyński to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u17	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Council of Ministers, I would like to provide a justification for the Government's draft law on the support of households to bear the costs of changing the standard of digital terrestrial broadcasting. This is an extremely important project, ladies and gentlemen, because due to the change in the standard of television broadcasting imposed by the decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the use of the 470-790 MHz frequency band in the European Union, we are forced to shift in the band on which digital terrestrial television is broadcast and, consequently, to prepare support instruments that will allow the cost to be passed on to households. That's because... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u18	Excuse me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, hello, hello, hello, hello. I have a kind request: if you could, if you could, those people who want to talk, do it outside of the Seym, then we wouldn't bother each other. I know it's always the same as at this point, that there's something else, but I'm talking to the right, and to the left, and inside: I'm asking the Minister to be calm about what he has to say. Thank you. Please, Minister. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Janusz Cieszyński: It's my fault, Marshal. I could do better than that. So I'm sorry. I ask you to speak more interestingly, Minister. I'm making your dreams come true. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] There you go. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Janusz Cieszyński: Due to the change in the standard of transmission from DVB-T/MPEG-4 to more efficient DVB-T2/HEVC, it is necessary to equip households whose material situation requires this, with the corresponding equipment. According to estimates of the National Media Institute approx. 2270 thousand. households in Poland will lose the ability to receive digital terrestrial signal, which is everything that we have on these channels today, after changing the standard of digital terrestrial television broadcasting. This change is planned for this year and will take place in four stages: the first - from 28 March, the second - from 25 April, the third - from 23 May and the fourth - from 27 June. Therefore, we propose a rational shielding mechanism for those households who will declare that they are unable to cope with the exchange themselves. In our view this is a fair action, because the Polish state benefits very much from the fact that it exploits frequencies that will be released. Therefore, such compensation for those who lose access to television is as rational as possible. The amount of compensation is set at PLN 100. This is enough to buy a basic decoder, and such decoder will allow receiving digital terrestrial TV in a new standard. The distribution of coupons, which will be necessary to benefit from this, will take place via the online channel and - because it mostly applies to older people - through Polish Post Offices. In our view, this is a rational solution to achieve the expected results quickly and efficiently. Therefore, we are very much counting on the entire High House to support the government in this action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Radosław Fogel from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak. Your mask fell.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear ladies and gentlemen, This urgent government project is connected, as the Minister said, with the transition to a new broadcasting system, and in principle to another system of encoding of terrestrial television, which many Poles still use. This decision is dictated by arrangements at European Union level, but it is a good decision. It allows to improve the quality of terrestrial television, to increase the offer, to introduce certain additional digital services within the framework of so-called. hybrid television. However, this change involves adapting the parts used today to the new broadcasting standard. Given that a large proportion of people who receive terrestrial television are worse placed, it seems rational that this project, concerning the introduction of funding, support of up to PLN 100 for the purchase of a decoder; decoder, not a new TV, because for many people buying a new TV would be unattainable and we would introduce inequality, we would introduce further digital exclusion. The purchase of the decoder still allows undistorted reception of terrestrial television. The proposed solutions, in terms of application, are also reasonable in the belief of the Law and Justice and show that the applicant is aware of the reality of the situation. Most of these people are older people. As research shows, the vast majority of technological leaders in households, where there is digital terrestrial TV, are people not only 60+ but also 70+, so the appointment of the operator, i.e. Polish Post and its institutions, as places where these applications can be submitted alongside the IT system, is a way out to meet the needs of these people and enable them to benefit from this offer. Also the principles of joining this programme of sellers, traders who offer such decoders are clean, transparent and do not discriminate against any entities from the European Union or from the European Economic Area, as set out in the draft law. In conclusion, the Law and Justice Club supports this solution and calls on the ladies and gentlemen of the House to vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u20	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mr Grzegorz Napieralski, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have already known for at least five years, Mr Minister, that such a broadcasting system will be. We know exactly that this standard will change in June 2022. I feel and believe that for 4 years you have overslept when it comes to the preparation of Polish law, but also Polish and Polish people, so that for such a new system, a good system... Because the quality of the image and sound will be better, but we will also help telecom operators who will benefit from it as well. Young people will also benefit from this because there will be better services for our telecom operators. I also feel that, in fact, if it weren't for the Digital Commission, Innovation and Modern Technologies, the Ministry wouldn't have woken up from lethargy and sleep to this day. Because, let me remind you, Minister, we are the ones who brought up this subject and the first discussion, a very serious debate. I am surprised because today we really have to realise - in our country is Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who should watch over such important projects as this and such important changes that are in our country. I hope - the Prime Minister always spoke of the role of the opposition, the help of the opposition - that he would appreciate the efforts of the Civic Coalition, which long ago indicated that there was such a problem. We wanted to talk about it and work together. Meanwhile, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is really very serious, because we do not know exactly how big it is - because it is not checked very thoroughly today - this problem. The Ministry also - at least we do not know - does not know the consequences of this regulation. Current and reliable data are missing. We have estimates that this is about 2 million households. This 2 million itself is absolutely impressive, and the law enters into force 4 months before the change of the broadcasting system. A support mechanism is needed, Minister and Member. The PiS rapporteur has gone. It is needed, but the bill is very late and there are many problems in it. First of all, it rewards those who have waited a very long time to replace the decoder until the last minute. And what will happen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if someone was solid enough, serious enough to buy a decoder, spend money, even though he couldn't afford it, but he collected it so he could watch his favorite channels, have access to information, education or even entertainment? In addition, of course, this law is very complicated in many places, because it is said, for example, that under the threat of criminal liability, a citizen is to make a statement that he cannot afford to purchase a decoder. Well, the right rule, to be honest. But the question is, what does that mean? That means I don't have 100 zlotys today, so I fold 'cause I don't. It also means that e.g. I think it's making 15 grand. zł per month, I can't afford it either, and I remind you that one prominent member of the government said that with a ministerial salary he didn't have enough for the first one, so he can also submit this application. We don't really know that, ladies and gentlemen, and it's worth talking about. But there's another problem about this bill. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we actually have four months to put this system in place. There's a lot of demand for decoders. The question is, will you be able to buy them? 'Cause we're really gonna make a purchase. 2 million farms - if based on private companies that do such research. It's $2 million. Will, first of all, these decoders reach our country, Poland, will they be possible to buy? But also another question: Is there going to be such a huge demand for these decoders, manufacturers, distributors and shops just not going to raise the price and out of these 100 zlotys will be made e.g. 300 PLN? Unfortunately, we don't know that. There's another very serious problem with this bill. I'm totally wondering. Because you can see the dislike of the Party of Law and Justice, the present power, the self-governments. Because instead of reporting whether to equip municipal or urban social assistance centres with additional resources, entrusting them with support tasks to help purchase decoders, the government proposes central solutions. Why not rely on these local units when they know best who needs it? After all, they help in this place every day. But you can't see it. This is where the government is trying, of course. He sees that there may be a problem, that there may be extortion, so he tries to write it in this law, so for example. There was no sale of door-to-door decoders. But why bother if you can use the solutions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one last thing, Mr. Marshal. If you don't mind, it'll be less than a minute. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Despite all these reservations, the opposition is again faced with a dilemma: to support the evil law, which, however, solves some of the problems, or not to support it knowing that even a bit of problems will not be solved. Again, it is a dilemma of lesser evil, or in principle it is the right idea of supporting people in a way that is delayed, thoughtless or messy. We are in favour of referring the law to further work in committee in the hope that, although some of the obvious shortcomings of this law can be corrected during the work of this committee. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u22	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, the Left Messenger's Club. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS and the government woke up from a winter sleep and decided to surprise us again. We have an emergency bill. She wasn't there a few days ago, and yesterday she showed up, and it was in the first place as an urgent act. I'm guessing our government decided to take off in the winter Olympics for last-minute errands. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear, dear.]] In fact, in this category we can count on medals and gold. [[Voice from the room: Drop it, throw it away.]] Support for and support to households in the cost of changing digital terrestrial broadcasting standards. Did we find out about this yesterday, a month ago? No, we've known about this for a few years, but we're working today. This aid is to be in the form of a benefit for the purchase of a television decoder. This is to be done on the basis of a document confirming the grant of funding. The aid will be granted to one householder if the material situation of the household of that person makes it impossible to bear the cost of purchasing the decoder on its own. So who is to get these 100 zlotys according to this bill? Because nowhere is any income criterion given. Whether it is for those 2 million living in Poland below the poverty line, or perhaps for those 15 million living within the poverty limits. For all, or for us also Members? My friend, my previous speaker, asked: Is it because today I don't have 100 zlotys or yesterday or next week or on a monthly basis or on a yearly basis? Why aren't we told that we should put off the 100 zlotys to collect on this decoder? It is very good that the state of our taxes wants to buy us decoders, but will it be able to do so for as short a time as it has been left to change the bill. Because if you do anything at the last minute, it turns out that there are some weird companies that sell masks before, and they're probably gonna be decoders now, maybe even the same people. Why do the rulers not have the courage to tell us who the 100 zlotys really are supposed to be for? Next point. Those who want this money are to make a statement that the material situation does not allow them to do so. One more point, on the other hand. The minister will determine the amount if anybody cheats and what amount he will pay back. If he's gonna get 100 zlotys, what's that minister gonna say, how much is he gonna pay back? The maximum expenditure limit from the budget is to be PLN 280 million. This is indeed no sum, since Bielan says that we do not need this European money, this 280 million is indeed a very small expense. I have another question for you. When and how the information campaign will start, what with this bill. So that older people, because we heard government representatives here, who believe that it is the elders who will need this support, learn how not to be deceived in buying this decoder. For now, neither on public television nor anywhere else, there is no advertising campaign to make it easier for people to handle this perhaps complicated matter. Of course, the Left Club will have to back up another legal bullshit... [[Voice from the room: Drop it.]] ...because we are very afraid that it will turn out that the way in which this bill will be implemented and how these decoders will go to households (the bell) will be another legal bubble. Thank you. [[Voice from the hall: As usual, you have nothing to say but criticism.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u24	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. We will see the Member. Oh, we see. Good morning. There you go. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u25	Good morning, Mr. Marshal. I greet you very warmly. High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the coalition club, PSL, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives Marek Biernacki on the government bill, contained in the sejm print No. 1989, to support households in the cost of changing the standard of digital terrestrial television broadcasting. High Izbo! The explanatory memorandum states: The aim of the programme is to mitigate the social impact of changing the standard of broadcasting by providing households with the possibility to receive terrestrial television on a continuous basis. The Act gives the possibility to finance the purchase of decoders up to PLN 100 and the state budget will cost a maximum of PLN 280 million. As we know, the change in broadcasting standards will take place in four stages: the first - from 28 March, the second - from 25 April, the third - from 25 May and the fourth - from 27 June. The bill came to us yesterday, which is why we should consider why the bill is being proceded as a matter of urgency, since we have known about the changes in broadcasting for a long time and we are re-proceding something on our knees, and we are re-proceding something for five-twelveths. The next question is: What is the delay? Because we've known about these changes for at least four years. It should also be fair to say that some have already incurred expenses related to the purchase of new decoders. Wouldn't it be worth considering, Minister, the development of regulations that would allow this amount to be reimbursed to those who bought earlier and didn't wait for the end? Another question arises as to the protection of sensitive data by those who have declared their willingness to benefit from the funding. How will this data be secured? The aim is to protect people from leaking their sensitive data into the wrong hands so that these data are not traded and used for evil purposes, all the more so since the public has recently heard about various abuses in this area. It should also be said that the service will be carried out in stationary shops, online shops, sales platforms, as well as by the Polish Post, as mentioned by the Minister. I wanted to ask the Minister whether Polish Post's employees would have an additional remuneration due to the additional obligations arising from the need to implement this law. Another question arises: How to eliminate unfair practices and how to secure e.g. Seniors before grifters and visits of dishonest people in their places of residence? And that is why I am asking at this point: Did the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and Chief of Police express their position on this bill? High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Minister! Polish People's Party, Coalition Poland raises its hand for every project that serves society, especially the elderly, whose income is low, and of course we will support this project. On the other hand, I hope that all the details that will be included in the implementing documents for the bill will contain regulations on the doubts I mentioned. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u26	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr. Krystian Kaminski from the Confederate circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When you read this project, you don't know whether to laugh or cry. To begin with, the humorist accent, and the state itself wrote this on the front page: The Council of Ministers considered the above-mentioned project urgent in view of the need to provide access to free terrestrial digital television to people with the lowest income not using other forms of information, given the need to provide citizens with information related to the COVID-19 epidemic. Is this really the COVID in our country that needs to be explained? After all, this is propaganda as aggressive as the News on Polish Television. You just can't listen to things like that. But why cry? Because the project is as sloppy and written as usual. You want to add 100 PLN to the decoders, but you can't even define a group of beneficiaries. Just read the article. 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 15 to see how out of focus it all is. Let's see the art. 15 point 3: a statement by the person entitled to the fact that the material situation of the person's household makes it impossible for him to bear the costs of purchasing a television decoder on his own. Is this a project or is this a joke? Therefore, it is not surprising what the State further wrote: the final number of households that benefit from the benefit is not estimated, so the minimum number of holdings that apply for the benefit can be assumed to be within 2270 thousand and the maximum number of holdings that apply for the benefit is 14 million. So we're within the limits between the spending of 230 million and 1400 million, and that's what you wrote in your project. This is ridiculous. In addition, you assume that it is estimated that 280 million will be spent on this project, which, as you can see, you estimate because you do not know what the expenditure will be. In this 280 million, 50 million are service costs. We do a program where for every 50 PLN 15 PLN is the cost of service. Are you kidding me? There is not yet such an expensive program in Poland. In addition, 3 million were allocated to the information campaign. Did you ever read this project before they sent it to us, or are you kidding me? You know what? In general, it's probably the worst-hidden distribution of money of all. It's not only that you're throwing away money to process this whole program, but they're still giving away in some very infantile way. Therefore, as a Confederation, we apply for rejection at first reading of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u28	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Grammar, near Poland 2050. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u29	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I do not want to bully the Minister of Digitization and repeat all the arguments that have been raised from this speaker, so maybe I will start positively. The change in the broadcasting system in general does not raise any objections. It is known that it is about better quality of programs, of course technical, narrower frequency range, greater compression capacity, more efficient algorithms, and thus more channels, the release of certain frequency bands that can be sold in the future. On the other hand, this bill, this law in many places is absurd. The fact that you use the resources of Poles and Poles to interfere on the market is nothing new because you do it every now and then. In this case, on the other hand, you are interfering in a certain part of the market, thereby violating the principles of fair competition, and this in turn runs counter to the European Union's aid rules. I'm counting on this element to be corrected. You point to one specific broadcasting standard as if there were no other broadcasting standards. You're remembering the so-called. hybrid decoders, but only as a curiosity, an alternative, thus violating the principle of technological neutrality. You're building another field system for millions of zlotys to handle a single benefit. Another package of our sensitive data, because data that defines our tastes, habits, wanders into the hands of the state and stays there for 5 years. We don't know where they're gonna leak out, who's gonna make any use of them, how they're gonna be protected. Traditionally, the United Right cannot do without a whip that hangs over entrepreneurs. We don't really know for what, but entrepreneurs will be able to pay the penalty, not really knowing what rules, not really knowing who's supposed to enforce it, but of course the whip has to hang. In the Impact Assessment, you are talking about certain advantages arising from the sale of rights to use the released band, but you are silent about the fact that in Poland we have been waiting for an auction on the 3.6 GHz band, crucial for the development of the 5G network, and probably in 2022 the auction on this band will be distributed. There's more absurd than that. About 2050 Poland hopes that at the stage of work in the committee at least a few absurdities will be eliminated. Unfortunately, this faith may prove vain. I assume you want to vote on this today or tomorrow. Most importantly, this voucher is supposed to cost us at least PLN 280 million. It's a drama. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u30	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, near the Polish Socialist Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's a saying: good intentions of hell are paved. Looks like this is the case. Let's start mercifully with the good intentions. Good intentions include the desire to organize the frequency spectrum and shift it so that the 5G bid can be efficiently distributed. In itself, it is quite beneficial. That is why the Minister corrects me and says that the Union did it. Now we know for sure - it came from the mouth of a government representative - that if something is good, it is due to the Union. The government can't even boast about it. The second good thing, High Izbo, is to support the technological transformation of the poorest. The PPS Parliamentary Circle is happy to support this. It is still worse because, in order to achieve this, a construction was invented from the Ministry of Strange Steps, or a mechanism was created in which error and error could easily be demonstrated, but the advantages of this solution cannot be found. I understand that surgery is about giving people 100 zlotys. You forget that every month you take 25 zlotys in the form of a subscription. Wouldn't it be better to combine one with the other and fire people for four months from paying your subscription? You wouldn't have to bear all those ridiculous dozens of million-dollar operations and promotions. You should simply say: in April, May, June and July you do not pay, dear subscribers, subscription. After all, the public media in the lion's part are financed by the budget today. That's the whole philosophy. I think it's hard to find a simpler solution. It seems that for reasons unknown to me, the Law and Justice Government does not want to implement simple solutions. We're going to make an amendment to this bill. The amendment is all about throwing all the points of this law into the trash and introducing the construction that I have just proposed. It's about releasing a subscription for each household for four months. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u32	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. I'm setting the time to ask questions for one minute. 14 people came to the questions. First question, Mrs Józef Ruchurek-Żelazko, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u33	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The draft law on supporting households in the cost of changing the standard of digital terrestrial television broadcasting is a very good project. I thank the Minister and the Government for preparing him. This is further support for households in connection with the changes that are made as a result of a European Union decision. This discussion, which just took place, shows that the state as a total opposition can criticize any project, even a project supporting Polish families. Minister! I have a question. The change in terrestrial television standard was also introduced in 2013. Whoever was in charge at the time, you know very well. I have a question about that. Minister, did the government then prepare any household support program? What amounts (The Bell) have been spent on this programme? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Michal Szczebra... Honestly, I'm sorry, Parliamentary Club Civil Coalition. I'm sorry, Michael.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! There's a saying: winter surprised the roadmen. Digital terrestrial television surprised Minister Cieszyński, who was absent for a while. You could say it's a project for five to twelve. He's really late, because on March 28th, we're gonna start switching the signal. Of course we know Minister Cieszyński, so we know that he probably checked everything from start to finish. He recognized the decoder market, just like he recognized the ventilator market. We know what happened. 200 out of 1041 have arrived. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Minister, how many TVs are there? in Poland? Do you have any data? Do we only have the data that's in the CUS? They show that 62.5% households in Poland have a TV. One more question. Did you analyze such a thing? We're adding 100 zlotys to the decoder. Isn't it better to pay 100 PLN to the new TV? Then there's a decoder on that TV. Perhaps it's an opportunity for someone to just replace an old TV. One last thing. Somebody's always got to make money out of it. In my opinion, Poland's post will earn again. Just like on pulsoximeters and other services she performed. You're still paying back the envelope elections that have caused this company a loss. How much will Poczta Polska earn on this service, providing codes to all interested who do not use e-mail? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u36	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Member of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the draft law on the support of households in the cost of changing the standard of digital terrestrial television broadcasting, we read in the schedule: the provision for the purchase of a television decoder entitles them to receive funding for the purchase of a single household television decoder enabling at least the reception of digital terrestrial television in DVB-T2/HEVC. Minister, what will this decoder, apart from the least about television, be receiving? Will it be possible to connect him to any other things related to, I don't know... What will he still have in him that the state here wrote: at least the reception of terrestrial television. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Just like it fell from the gym or something. Pegasus will be able to connect to that receiver? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u38	Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. There you go. I smiled. I was thinking about this Pegasus, which is why I smiled a little. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u39	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! One would like to say: an urgent bill, and the first question arises, since when did you know that we are changing the system to another. Tonight in pursuit, I think you're afraid you're gonna lose those who should be watching you, or because you're gonna help them watch, that's what you're doing. Minister, a specific question: Why are you acting in such chaos, why, knowing for the past few months that we are starting this kind of work at all, has it actually been going on for months, in this way you are introducing such solutions today? Perhaps they are good for some, but why is this parliament becoming more and more like one great chaos? Unfortunately, for many months you have successfully confirmed us in this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are living in a time of high inflation, which will further accelerate, and the government's marketing experts have come up with a new way to, you can say, attempt to bribe electoral bribery, and certainly an additional price increase, at least when it comes to decoders. Already in the explanatory memorandum you assume that the prices of decoders in connection with your project may be higher, but that's okay, because you only add 100 PLN each. In addition, the service of each subsidy is as much as 15 PLN. In the case of the planned minimum of subsidies up to 2.27 million farms, the additional cost should be at least PLN 34 million, while you assume in the same justification that the cost will be around 50 million, so you are lost and you do not know exactly what this money will go for, and then, as a result, we find that up to 14 million people can benefit from it. This cost of building a database (the bell), the cost of building an additional application handling system will result in the risk of sending out further personal data of Poles, for which we do not have our consent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. You're welcome, Michael.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u43	Honourable Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is incompatible with the aid rules in the European Union. On the other hand, it should be notified to the European Commission. My question is whether such a notification procedure has been carried out. Several bodies were drawn to the need to carry out this procedure at the stage of the work of the Government Legislative Centre. When were the relevant documents submitted and what was the position of the EU authorities? These are very important elements of the legislative process, which you necessarily fund us with such a crazy rush. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Joński, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u45	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Good morning, Minister. At the Ministry of Health, you've become famous for your famous ventilators. You promised me that you would clear up the matter about every dollar, and to this day the 55 million PLN case is not settled. Minister Szumowski resigned from his mandate. Then you started exchanging I.D.s. The Homeland Security Agency has kept you from this tender for a number of reasons. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] How? As the only country in Europe, we have missed the exchange of evidence. Now you're going to replace the decoders. You want to replace the decoders at the last minute. You became responsible for digitization eight months ago. You come at the last minute when you know these decoders will have to be replaced within three months. I'm asking if you're gonna do it on purpose again and who's gonna make it this time. Because there was an arms dealer, there was a ski instructor. [[Now we're selling decoders.]] So? Now there's gonna be a decoder trade? I'm asking because it's not a coincidence that this is all happening. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's public money, and when I hear that the service is going to go to 50 million, and 3 million zlotys go to promotion, I get light when I see you, what's going on with this money. And one last thing. Well, as I look at your experience, and it's hard to call you a successful man, given what you've been doing, I'm afraid 2 million people can stay without a television signal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u46	Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The whole bill comes down to two questions. First of all, is there really nothing for the Polish administration to do? Secondly, if the post office does not have anything to do, how many poorly paid post workers from the 15 zlotys that you delete from 100 zlotys will receive? Mr. Minister, tell me how much money these employees will receive. But I have a very logical hint for you. Instead of accepting and considering applications, paying funding and clearing them on the basis of some bills, would it not be easier to reduce the fee for a RTV subscription by PLN 100 or introduce a subscription licence and carry out the whole process without undue delay? After all, any person paying a subscription could benefit on equal terms from the benefit of the government. This would give double savings (the bell) because TV has already received a refund from the budget for the unpaid subscription, so the amount of this budget would not have to be reimbursed. Minister, I will ask for an answer here from all Poles and I will ask for a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Simple case, so many complications, so many comments. I think there may still be a lot of interesting things about this, because you can see here how many problems are raised by your Members. And the solution is simple, Mr Kwiatkowski spoke about it - release from the subscription. For two years now there has been a project of the Polish People's Party to exempt all Poles from their subscription. Then the calculated cost is 700 million, 250 needs... For 700 million, we've got everyone who's been released from their subscription. When we reported this project, it was said that there was no money, that TV wouldn't survive it. PLN 1 billion went, the following year PLN 2 billion, and there is no exemption from the subscription. The state in the election campaign was babbling something under the nose (the bell) that people need to be exempted from their subscription. And my question is, do you want to do it or not? If not, why not? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's called an emergency bill. For 5 years it has been known that in Poland since June this year the system of digital television broadcasting is to be changed. And what does the government do? Four months before that, it introduces an urgent act. There was no such law in the case of the COVID law, in the case of the act for entrepreneurs, but in the case of the law on exchange of decoders is. And who's doing it? Sorry, bricklayer, plasterer, acrobat. Because you know everything -- decoders, ventilators, everything. I wonder why it's you. You became an attorney yesterday for the repair of the Polish Order. I am afraid for this Polish Load, or actually for citizens. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] I'm afraid for Poland, I see you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u52	But you're emotional, Minister. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] I'm starting to get scared, too. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Among the more than 2 million households in which, according to the State, there are people in material difficulties who will have the right to finance the purchase of this additional device, there are also households who have listened to messages and have already purchased this device. I would like to ask: Will it be possible to refund the expenses already incurred by those families who are in a difficult material situation, little of that, are also payers of the RTV subscription? You're predicting multiple data collections. Should these data be used later to verify who pays the subscription, who does not pay? [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Yes, sir.]] 'Cause post offices... Because full data will be available to the Minister of Digitization. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will this also be used in the future to collect this data from those who will receive this funding? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u54	I think that's one of the basic questions that came up. I'm sorry to judge, but that's a reflection. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! Minister! My question is simple and it's been repeated here, but I'll ask it anyway. Tell me, what else is in this decoder? I said Pegasus from the jury, and I suspect so. As far as households are concerned, I'm worried that these subsidies will only be paid by people who are connected to the PiS. It's always like that... It might be funny, but I think it's funny in the first place. I'm saying this because I have no confidence in you. You know, there were masks when it came to Minister Szumowski, things about you. So I think the PiS is gonna make us pay for everything. [[Decoders.]] ...decoders, decoders, too. And I think there's one more way -- the 100 zlotys that people will get, that money is to vote for you. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u56	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. Good morning.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that this year the standard of terrestrial television broadcasting will change has been known for a long time. However, a law laying down the rules for the award and performance of the benefit for the purchase of a television decoder is only now processed and should enter the proceedings much earlier. According to research by the National Media Institute, about 2.3 million Polish households are not adapted to receive digital terrestrial television. What if households are forced to buy a new TV when it turns out that replacing the decoder alone is not enough? You complicate the lives of Poles - as usual, traditionally. You pay PLN 100 to the decoder, and yet you oblige Poles to make statements. I hope that this law (the bell) will be clarified during the committee's work, because it is unacceptable in its proposed form. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very much in favour of supporting households, but I am opposed to chaos and complicated regulations. The State, the government of PiS, knew very well, for 4 years, that this was the case, and in fact at the last moment you are presenting a bill. This kind of thing takes care of a lot, a lot sooner. The system is unclear, it's complicated. Of course, I understand that you want to go out again and say that this is the PiS government that cares beautifully about households, residents and everyone will receive 100 PLN. I don't know if that's the right thing to do. Now, Minister, two questions. What about those who have already paid that amount? And two: Are you ready to withdraw from this project and go towards those solutions that are proposed, which are proposed in this House to be exempted from the subscription? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In fact, the effects would be much better and the costs would be much lower. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u60	Thank you very much. Minister, come in. You have a difficult task, but we hope you can do it. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: A man with difficult tasks.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u61	Mr. Marshal will see if I can handle it. I'd be happy to answer that. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: You look beautiful.]] Thank you very much. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: Now the decoders.]] That's right. Let's start with the first most important issue. You want to release the opposition from your subscription. That sounds very reasonable. There's going to be a lower subscription, and the balance is going to be the same. Who are we gonna exclude from this program then? I'll read it. You might want to reflect on whether this is such a good idea. People from 75 years of age or 60 years of age if they are retiring. Persons receiving care and social benefits. Persons receiving benefits, deaf people, blind people and disabled groups and groups. Persons who do not meet the income criterion. The unemployed, the disabled, the military and the veterans. These are the people who, in the project of the Polish Socialist Party - chapeau bass - will be excluded from receiving support, and these are, ladies and gentlemen, people who in my opinion should first of all benefit from these opportunities. You ask a number of questions that there is a statement that there is a responsibility... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: Speak a little louder because we can't hear you.]] Of course. ...that there's a statement that there's criminal liability for the wrong statement. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, because we trust Poles and believe that these people themselves are best able to assess whether they can afford it or not. As I hear from the parliamentarians of the opposition who say that they will put MEPs on it, I have one question: Is it not a shame to ask you this? Really. People have real problems, real challenges just because they can't afford these things, and they know best that they need these resources. That's why I don't think it's right to mix it up. That is what Mr Napieralski asked. You also talked about the committee's proposals. But is there some sort of commission project in this case? Is it again that you're saying, saying a few sentences at the committee meeting, and then nothing's going on? Prepare, show constructive suggestions. I'm always open to discussion. After all, even at the digital summit in Katowice, we had a very interesting committee, we were talking normally like people, and here, as they are concrete, the state immediately goes into politics. And in the end, what do you admit? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That it's a good project. Of course, outside of the Confederation, for which any project that compensates anyone... Even, you can say, expropriation from the TV, because that's what you should call it, it's okay, everything's okay, so that any projects that the government is preparing don't happen. You're asking about sensitive data. I encourage you to familiarize yourself with the set of these data. These are the data that you already have, practically all of them. As far as address, e-mail and telephone number are concerned, practically these data of many citizens, 8 million are in the Register of Contact Data, in tax offices, in the Social Insurance Institution, in e-health. So, of course, we're gonna make sure that this system is secure and there's no way anyone unauthorized gets into this. Mr Grammar asked if he had properly stated that we are interfering with the market. Dear Member, we are interfering in such a way that, at a time when the standard is changing, a specific standard is no longer working and is changing to another standard, we are giving the opportunity to benefit from this standard. That is also the question that Mr Adamczyk and Mrs Krzywonos asked, saying that at least HEVC. That, ladies and gentlemen, is because there are decoders that support several standards at once. If we had only typed one, that's when we would have tampered with the market in an unauthorized manner. And also the second question or Mr Grammar's statement that it is a whip for companies. Yes. Do you know which companies? On those which today on the most popular Polish auction service offer decoders, which will cease to work since June. There's a whip on these companies. And I admit, I'm beating myself in the chest: it should have been introduced much earlier, because this is the most common cheating of Poles in the world, Mr President, and you should be aware of it. And one last question. Minister Józef Szczurek-Żelazko asked what it was like in 2013 when the Civic Platform ruled. Was there any support from the government when the standard of digital television was changing? It was. From the Italian government, from the government of Spain, Slovakia, Lithuania, Hungary and Bulgaria, because from the government of the Civic Platform citizens got nothing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: What about those who have already bought?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u62	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will therefore vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Health Committee on the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction (Prints No 1699 and 1975). I would very much like to ask Mr Sachaika to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir. And thank you very much to the Minister for taking part in the deliberations.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u63	Mr. Marshal, there's no one from the Ministry of Health, I don't know if it's important.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u64	Mr President, thank you for the information I know, and I do not say it maliciously, that there is no one from the Ministry of Health. There's just no one from the Ministry of Health. [[The Minister isn't even in this country.]] Therefore, I ask you very much to speak, and the Ministry of Health just sort of...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u65	He'll listen.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u66	He'll listen.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u67	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Joint Committees: the Health Committee and the Agriculture Committee a report by the Committee on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Anti-drugs Act. This proposal was submitted by the Members of the Committee of the Regions on 2 August 2021 and by the Law and Justice Committee of the European Union. On 15 December 2021, your Marshal directed this printing to the first reading of the Sejm. The first reading of the Sejm was held on 13 January 2022. At that time, your Marshal addressed this printing to the joint committees: the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Health. The Health Committee prepared a report of the Committee on 25 January. This is print number 1975. 13 amendments were proposed during the committee's deliberations. Eight amendments were accepted, five amendments were rejected. Four minority proposals have been submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u68	Thank you very much. There's still no one from the ministry. I'm sorry. I'm not gonna apologize on behalf of the ministry, because if I were in this ministry, I'd be in the courtroom. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I am very cordially asking Mr Krzysztof Szulowski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the parliamentary draft law amending the law on anti-drugs by Members Kukiz.15 and Law and Justice, prints no. 1699 and 1975. The aim of the project is to amend the Law of 29 July 2005 on the Prevention of Drugs in matters relating to crops and the harvesting of hemp other than fibrous hemp in order to obtain pharmaceutical raw materials. I would like to remind you that Parliament, in its previous term of office, adopted the Act of 7 July 2017, took a nice step, allowing the so-called. medical marijuana as a pharmaceutical raw material for dosage preparation. I will also remind you that Parliament was mostly right-wing and that it became primarily the voices of the Law and Justice. On the basis of the current provisions, after obtaining a marketing authorisation issued by the President of the Office for the Registration of Medicinal Products, Medical Products and Biocidal Products, herbal cannabis other than fibrous and extracts, pharmaceutical tinctures, as well as all other extracts from hemp other than fibrous and hemp resin other than fibrous may constitute pharmaceutical raw materials for the preparation of prescription drugs. In addition, those issues are governed by the Regulation of the Minister of Health of 5 December 2017. On the other hand, the area for the preparation and administration of medicinal products, prescription medicines is subject to the requirements laid down in particular by the Law of 6 September 2001 - Pharmaceutical Law and the Regulation of the Minister of Health of 18 October 2002 on the basic conditions for running the pharmacy. The most important proposal contained in the project is that crops and a collection of hemp other than fibrous hemp from which medicinal products will be prepared on the market should be carried out after the authorisation of the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector by the Polish Research Institute supervised by the Minister responsible for Agriculture has been obtained. These permits will be issued in the form of a decision by the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector after consulting the Police Voivodeship Command. It will be important to ensure that crops are protected against unauthorised access, including by the need to keep lists of persons entitled to enter and vehicles entitled to enter. As part of the infrastructure requirements related to supervision, it will be necessary to install so-called. RFID system - radio frequency identification. It is a technology of remote radio plant surveillance which uses radio waves to read and transmit data contained on the label applied to each cultivated plant, enabling the identification of each of these plants in the reading field at the same time. The Law and Justice Club supports the project. By adopting the Act of 7 July 2017 amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction and the Act on the Refund of Medicines, Foods for Special Nutrition and Medical Devices, as I mentioned, we agreed to use hemp raw materials other than fibrous hemp as pharmaceutical raw materials. It is time for raw materials to come from Polish, fully controlled crops, not from abroad. We are assured that the Institute of Natural Textiles and Herbal Plants of the State Research Institute in Poznań or possibly another entity has knowledge, potential and infrastructure to carry out such cultivation and obtain raw material. Getting the raw material in the country will make sure we don't have to bring it back from abroad. This will significantly reduce its price and thus also the price of prescription medications prescribed to patients. He's gonna make it. potentially greater possibilities for their refunds. Thank you very much. And I'm sorry, Marshal, for the shortness of breath. I was in a hurry to get to that point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u70	Thank you very much. Because I am trying to do this honestly, I would like to say that the Minister was late because he was at the committee meeting in parallel. We have to organize it a little differently, because this point was supposed to be after hours. 12. The important thing is that everything ended well. [[But there was no Health Committee.]] [[Voice from the room: Sub-committee so-called.]] Member, there's a subcommittee, yes... [[Voice from the room: Sub-committee and Sports Committee, two were at 11:00 p.m.]] Really, I'm just explaining. Hello, Minister. Please, Mr Jerzy Hardie-Douglas, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The very idea of sanctioning legal cultivation in Poland of hemp other than fibrous hemp, i.e. containing a significant amount of THC, i.e. tetrahydrocannabinol, is entirely correct. The Law of 7 July 2017 amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction and the Act on the Refund of Medicines, Foods for Special Nutrition and Medical Devices has legalised the marketing of medicines based on marijuana, but at the same time has not allowed national cultivation of cannabis other than fibrous cannabis. There was no more logic in that. In this situation, medicines with medicinal marijuana must be imported from abroad. The consequence of this is their very high price. The Act indicates the institutions which should issue authorisations for cultivation in Poland of hemp other than fibrous hemp and quite detailed minimum infrastructure requirements to be met by the place of cultivation, and various safety requirements, including the protection of crops against theft. The control of the farming operator's activities would be attributed to voivodship pharmaceutical inspectors. On the occasion of the draft law, the authors propose to amend the definition of fibre hemp authorised in Poland and indicate that they are plants of the genus hemp, in which THC does not exceed 0,3% on the dry weight basis. The current standard is 0,2%. From the point of view of breeders, industrially used fibrous hemp growers is a very beneficial change. The Act adds a definition of RFID technology, a technology of remote radio surveillance of objects, which can use radio waves to read and transmit data contained on the label applied to each cultivated plant. The weakness of the law is the identification of research institutes as the only entity able to seek authorisation for the production of cannabis. The translation by the authors of the project and the ministry that this regulation results from commitments signed several decades ago by Poland is completely unconvincing and difficult to verify. The restriction of the possibility of seeking authorisation for cannabis cultivation by entities other than research institutes de facto indicated by the name and surname of the Textile and Herbal Institute of Poznań. It should be assumed that, as with any monopoly, the lack of competition will result in the expected reduction in prices of medicines containing medicinal marijuana. As we know, a project on the same subject appeared in the Seym at the same time. I am thinking here of a draft law signed by the Left to amend the law on anti-drugs and some other laws, print No 1701. This project was rejected by the majority of the Parliament at first reading. Like the draft law discussed here by Kukiz, 15 the print project No 1701 aimed at enabling and supervising the cultivation of hemp other than fibrous hemp in Poland, but additionally extended the field of interest to other aspects of the cultivation and processing of hemp containing a significant amount of THC. Indeed, it is difficult to understand the aversion of the rulers to create a better law and to seek proposals coming from clubs other than the PiS or groups currently cooperating with the PiS. It is a mistake for the Health Commission to reject the proposed amendments, which could have led the Act to be a compilation of two parallel proposals and to resolve other problems that arise in the context of the discussion on medical marijuana. Among other things, it is about introducing into the Polish legal order concepts: the condition after using tetrahydrocannabinol and the state of tetrahydrocannabinol intoxicating, similar to concepts: the condition after alcohol use and the state of intoxication, or the possibility of refunding part of the cost of medicines based on medicinal marijuana. The Civic Coalition Club is aware of the shortcomings of this law, but in the absence of the possibility for this Sejm to adopt a better law, taking into account in particular the well-being of patients waiting for a reduction in the price of medicinal marijuana, which will not happen without the possibility of producing cannabis other than fibrous cannabis in Poland, the Civic Coalition Club will support the draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u72	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! January 13th this year Parliamentarians and parliamentarians have dealt with three draft laws on cannabis, two of which referred to medical marijuana. Of course, we are talking here about a project signed by Mr Sachaika from print no. 1699 and a print project no. 1701, which I had the pleasure of presenting to the High House. Both projects had a common objective, namely to facilitate the legal cultivation of medical marijuana in Poland, which patients urgently need in order to make therapy more accessible, except that the solutions presented by me at the time, which were the result of a solid and diligent work within the Parliamentary Group for Affairs. The legalization of Marijuana touched on the subject much wider and from several important perspectives. I am referring to, for example, to enable more legal operators to grow hemp, to abolish the ban on the medical refund of marijuana, to allow the legal introduction of the condition after the use of THC or the education of doctors and pharmacists. Unfortunately, this proposal was rejected at the meeting, although the decision was not supported by any substantive justification. It is a pity, because it did not contain any controversial records, but it was a concrete response to the problems of Polish patients. The project signed by Mr Sachajka was aimed at further work. Then I announced that I would not give up, that I would strive to introduce good law in the field of medical marijuana. Therefore, in the joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Health, together with Ms Marcelina Zawisza, I tabled some important amendments to the draft law discussed today, which could make it a bit more beneficial than it originally intended. First of all, in addition to changing the provisions of the Anti-drug Act, we proposed to make them also in the Drug Refund Act. It would include a record of issuing special medical marijuana certificates to avoid any misunderstandings and unnecessary confrontations with the police, which presumes that they are dealing with illegal marijuana. Such a certificate, whether electronic or paper, is a small thing, and can help patients in many situations. We have also tabled an amendment which makes it clear that there is no criminal offence for those who process or convert medicinal products prepared from hemp other than fibrous hemp for their own use. This is a solution needed because patients who have completed a prescription at the pharmacy do not know how legally they can store medical marijuana and how they can use it. The Anti-drug Act indicates that such action is prohibited, but it does not specify whether it also applies to medical marijuana. It is therefore high time to resolve any doubts and clarify this issue legally. During the committee's work, we also proposed a very important amendment that would finally abolish the ban on the medical refund of marijuana. Therapy, especially when it still has to be imported from abroad, is not cheap. I would like to stress that this amendment would not oblige you to refund, but would leave the Minister of Health with the opportunity to take such a step and to indicate in which cases this would be possible for patients. The above amendments would certainly strengthen the positive impact of the draft law by Mr Sachajka from print no. 1699 and on several important issues would primarily address the problems of Polish patients using marijuana medical therapy. This law is still a step forward today, but I think we should, as Members and Members who work in this House, have the courage to make a little more movement so that the Sejm can approach the subject comprehensively, for the benefit of patients and Polish agriculture. I am sure the Left will support this proposal, but we are also asking the High House to support these minority proposals resulting from the amendments that I tabled in the committee and which I have just discussed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u74	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Sachajka's law, the law recommended by Mr Sachajko, does not in itself raise any great controversy. Here we will really support the amendments or, now, the conclusions of the left minority. I was quite clear and clear that the only problem with this law is that it was actually written under one institution, I understand that under an institute in Poznań, which today has such opportunities - it is such a place that these medicinal cannabis can be grown there. We spoke quite clearly, we asked why farmers could not do this, who could also have such opportunities, why it is assigned only to this one institution. The Polish Coalition Club will of course support this bill, it is going in the right direction, and I hope that the next step will be another mitigation. Here, indeed, the refund must be introduced. I also hope that if it is Polish medicinal cannabis or medicinal marijuana, they will actually be much cheaper and there will be a greater possibility that Poles will be able to afford it. But, Marshal, this bill doesn't cause much controversy, hence, if the Marshal permits, I will talk about something else. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Morawiecki, President Kaczyński today divided Poland, they did just that. Yesterday, five people came to me, grown-up people, ladies and gentlemen, and these people told me about the problems that the Law and Justice gave them. Today we have a meeting of the armed arm of Law and Justice in the form of Prof. Glapiński, who will probably raise interest rates again, although he said in 2021 that inflation is temporary that there is no way that interest rates will be raised. These are the words of President Glapiński. You have caused adult people, adult men, adult women to come to me and cry, saying quite clearly that they had instalments at the level of PLN 1,500, and today they have instalments at the level of 2 000. zł. Case of a family business: five employees, gas bill in December 2 000. zł, gas bill in January 6,000. zł. These people are really desperate. These are the injuries that are happening today, and they're about to be human dramas. You will see that you will lead to the drama of people. Another person, another case. I don't have the bill with me, but if you're here, I'll set up this bill in a minute and show you. In December, a baker in Szczecin, employing nine people, paid a gas bill of PLN 5600. In February, he showed us a bill of 55,000. That's 1000%. Gas raises. What are you doing? Where are you guys? Why aren't you guys doing this? What is the government's strategy when it comes to helping these people? The situation of Mrs Marzena, Mr Tomek, is the real problems of Polish citizens who actually have such problems today. Here's another example. They rented the car because the family grew. Today they are wondering whether to pay the loan or to pay for the lease or to make cheaper purchases. These are really beginning to be human tragedies, and you're going on. You don't have an action plan. You work from wall to wall. What's the idea of helping these people? In a moment, it'll be thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of people. We can see that young people have mortgages. These installments grow galloping all the time. You may think 500 PLN for a normal family is nothing, but for people who normally live from first to first it's an awfully big expense. We're about to get 10% inflation. It really hurts Polish citizens. Think about what you're doing, where you are. Prime Minister Morawiecki, today was a formal motion. Please leave and tell us what the government's strategy is for these actions. People are really desperate. [[Voice from the room: Hello?]] People are really desperate, sir. I understand they're coming to you, too, and they're wondering where they're gonna take all of this. I mean, we can see the price. We're seeing this costume today. I'm talking about Mrs. Dream, I'm talking about Mr. Tom, I'm talking about Mr. Krzysztof. These are real people who come to me and cry. You've been in charge for five years, you've led to this situation. The coalition of Poland will support the law on marijuana. Start ruling, start helping these people, because there are real problems, there will be tragedies in a moment. There's bad luck today, tragedies are about to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u76	Mr President, I always have a dilemma in this situation because we are discussing the law on marijuana. I ask you very kindly, my fellow Members... [[Voice from the hall: Tell that to the people who came to me...]] ...so you don't yell at each other: you're too horny Or something like that, because it's not reasonable. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Konrad Berkowicz from the Confederate circle. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u77	Ladies and gentlemen! Again, we are wondering whether, how, with what limitations, for what purposes to legalize a specific substance. However, we should consider whether you have the right at all and whether you should be interested in what an adult eats, drinks, accepts, smokes, etc. Do drugs destroy lives? Of course I do. One example is alcohol. Alcohol, of course, is a psychoactive substance, highly addictive, highly harmful. It's a drug, of course, except it's different from other drugs because it's legal. And let's talk about alcohol. According to various studies, alcohol causes death every 10 seconds. Apart from causing death directly, alcohol abuse leads to many diseases, leading to family breakdowns, alcohol addiction causes a lot of crime, including murders. Meanwhile, you focus only on substances that are illegal at this point, as if the ban on the use of the substance stopped the use of the substance. Statistics show that it doesn't work, of course. Now drugs are bigger than when drugs weren't banned. Besides, it's not a way to be drugged. It's not a way to be punished. The methods of police drug addiction are not cured, so anyone who is in favour of punishing drug use should be in favour of punishing drug use, such as alcohol. Of course, it would end like in the U.S. for prohibition, when alcohol was still used only additionally ex-mobs, murders, robberies, thefts. And that's exactly what it's like with illegal drugs now. And now there's a fundamental question. Why is it that no one will even mention prohibition and punishment for alcohol, alcohol prohibition, and everyone defends drug prohibition? This is the status quo tyranny Milton Friedman was talking about. It's just business. So that alcohol is legal, pays off to those who make millions of dollars today, lobby for it to be legal, pay bribes, watch it. On the other hand, for the other drugs to be illegal, it's in the interest of the drug mobs who lobby, bribe, convince the drugs to be illegal. [[Applause]] Anyone who's in favor of being punished for using drugs, that's for something that makes sense to the mob, because she's making a living at the risk that she's taking drugs, is a useful idiot of the mob. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Mucha, near Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I always have this opportunity to appear by the person, by the representatives of the circle, with whom I dramatically disagree, but because the time is short, so I will not defy the same ones that we have just heard. First of all, it should be said today that it is good that the Polish Sejm finally rejects phobias and superstitions. And it's good that we're able to talk about medicinal marijuana or more about therapeutic marijuana therapies without phobias, without superstitions, only in normal mode. Moreover, these three projects we have leaned on are projects from three very different political environments, and yet the demands that appear in them are very similar. And the most important thing in this bill is that all of this is happening with a huge benefit for the sick who need these cannabis treatment treatments. So far it has been so that she was supposed to be available in Poland, but it could be bought with some enormously large money, because monthly therapy could cost 1000 PLN and more. So you could think of this therapy a little bit like a cookie that's behind the window and you can look at it, but you can't buy it. It was absolutely inhuman, so it's a good thing we're changing that by working on these three laws. Enabling production in Poland is primarily a good step towards the sick, a good step towards the Polish budget, towards the Polish breeders. Like I said at the beginning, it's a good thing we turned down the phobia and we're working on this project. The most important changes. Change in the definition of hemp to a THC content of 0,3% in dry matter - it's been 0.2% so far. This is consistent with the common agricultural policy of the European Union. It's important. Second, standard sampling and testing shall be carried out. So there will be no longer a situation where someone is a criminal or not a criminal, depending on whether the sample is taken and tested by the police or by Arimr, and this has happened in the past. There are proposals to abolish zoning, rebureaucratization, extension of the application directory. And the latest proposal from the draft by Mrs Paulina Matysiak, i.e. the introduction of a state concept after the use of THC and an increase for people using medical marijuana and the introduction of certificates, etc. These are all good changes. Of course, we think that this bill is not perfect, and we will lean deeply over the amendments, but really as the Polish Sejm we have taken (the Bell) a step in a very good direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u80	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jarosław Sachaika. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u81	Thank you very much. Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Circle15 - Direct Democracy, I have the honour to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the law on the prevention of drug addiction. This project is, this must be emphasised, tabled by Mr Kukiz!15 and by the Law and Justice. It is a supplement to the law which was adopted in 2017 and which allowed Polish patients to buy cannabis in pharmacies. In fact, we have been hearing here for years that many political groups have fought for Polish patients to benefit from medical cannabis therapy based on medical cannabis. We have heard such dates: since 2000, 2002 etc. But nothing happened. Luckily, in the last term, Kukiz's club appeared in Parliament15, a strong right-wing appeared so that it could pass such a bill, so that Polish patients could not only hear that others were using cannabis therapy, but also so that they could buy it in pharmacies. The law was adopted, but the entire section related to cannabis cultivation in Poland was cut out of our project in the last term. During this term of office, we have submitted a project that is slightly different from the one that was in the last term, and it is agreed that Polish institutes, institutes under the Ministry of Agriculture, will grow medical cannabis for pharmaceutical purposes. We also have the assurance of both Minister Gembicka and Minister of Health that such cannabis from Polish crops will soon appear in pharmacies and will be available all the time, we will not have to rely on whether or not any transport will reach Poland. The second very important declaration is that these cannabiss will be at a much better price than they are at present, because this price for many patients is currently restrictive. Just now a colleague of Lubczyk talked about the fact that there is no regulation here so that farmers can grow medical cannabis. Medical hemp should be grown under the strict supervision of the State. In a moment, we'll be talking about cannabis and farmers are free to go. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Here, under the authority of the State, the institutes under the authority of the Minister of Agriculture will soon begin to grow medical cannabis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Rozenek, near the Polish Socialist Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u83	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's kind of embarrassing to talk about a project like this at all. It's the 21st century, and right now we're wondering if you're allowed to ride carriages. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole world not only drives cars, flies planes, but also flies to the Moon and plans to go to Mars. Meanwhile, we are wondering whether cannabis is allowed in Poland. This is ridiculous. [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Sow mak.]] It's just a plant. This is the plant that our grandmothers, our grandparents grew, grew in their gardens. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Mak too.]] It didn't bother anyone. From cannabis, from marijuana no one in the world died. There's no such thing. [[Voice from the hall: Stop, you can't say that.]] From alcohol, of course, people die, from tobacco people die. No one died from cannabis, and you forbid this plant. What's going on here anyway? We are discussing that it will be possible to grow cannabis under certain conditions to sell it in pharmacies under the supervision of doctors. Okay, well, people need this medicine. But you know what this surveillance is gonna be like? The chief pharmacy inspector will issue a permit, and then this permit will still be subject to the opinion of the police chief of the voivodship. Guys, what's going on here? The police will keep an eye on the bushes. Paranoia, 21st century. [[Voice from the room: How's the poppy?]] Most civilized countries have introduced legal marijuana for everyone, and you're wondering if it might be a cure. What's there to think about? The previous law led to the fact that two companies, and foreign ones, can sell hemp in Polish pharmacies. Do you know what this is? Corruption in broad daylight. [[Applause]] It's just that. What the hell is this? It's like you say that water to Polish houses can only be delivered by two companies: German and Canadian, and no other. What's the difference? The 21st century, I stress. Most states in the United States have already legalized marijuana. Our southern neighbours have legalized marijuana. I'll give you a hint: the central-right government, the chadecks. Because they asked scientists for opinions. Not those support stands scientists, the marijuana ones, the cannabis ones, the addictions. And what did the scientists tell them? It needs to be legalized, because without legalizing, you're making the mob grow. [[Applause]] In short, this government leads to the development of the Mafia in Poland. [[Voice from the room: They are the mob themselves.]] Yeah, I'm afraid so. So I'm sorry to say it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The bell.]] This is a tiny step, of course in the right direction, but a microstep, and we need big steps. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u84	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, at the hour. 12.10 we shall proceed to the vote. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 06 hours 12 min 18]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u85	I'm reopening the session. We are now entering into a quorum, ladies and gentlemen. I therefore ask all Members to press any button to confirm their participation in the meeting. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: We already know why we waited so long.]] Mr President, there was a Council of Ministers meeting, so don't be surprised that we have been waiting. These are ministers who are Members. [[The Prime Minister's been here 20 minutes.]] But why the screaming? [[A voice from the hall: I think you need to buy a watch for the gentleman.]] [[We're waiting for one guy. The whole Seym is sitting there waiting for one guy.]] [[The Prime Minister's been waiting so long...]] The meeting shall be attended by 448 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. We return to the consideration of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the urgent government bill on supporting households in the cost of changing the standard of digital terrestrial broadcasting. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print No 1989 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 17 - for, 425 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies for consideration. On the basis of the article. 73. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report to the committee so that it may be examined at the current sitting of the Sejm. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 27 hours 12 min 28]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u86	I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 2 of the agenda. Let's move on to asking questions. The first question is asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left. You're welcome. Are you an MP?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u87	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Print No 1699 shall record in Article. 49a: application of technical measures preventing unauthorised entry. What did the authors mean when it comes to technical measures that prevent unauthorised entry? Is this about the wall, any other elements, the fence, the pass office? I would very much ask for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u88	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u89	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask applicants to calculate the profitability of the crops on which you impose quite drastic requirements. You're going to make it possible to identify every plant growing in the field. I'd like to know what you're assuming is the estimated cost of physical, administrative and electronic surveillance per kg of harvest. I'm asking you this for the sake of the people that this document deals with. If all requirements are met, will the final cost of the product not be so high that, despite acceptable crops and legal production in the country, sick people or their families will still be forced to import illegally from abroad due to prices which, I fear, can be extremely high? I ask both the resort and the applicants to reply in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u90	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u91	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are talking about cannabis obtained from cannabis, from herb growing in Poland. How effective is it? We know that this medicine is often effective even in the case of drug-resistant epilepsy. The first question is to the applicants. Why is it that the application does not refer to the refund of this medicine? After all, there is a proposal that we read about in the Act that cannabis should only be produced in one institute. So it's really going to be some kind of industrial piloting, not the industrial production that's needed. Therefore, the cost of this medicine will probably not be reduced. I have a question: In this case, will cannabis used in the manufacture of the drug be treated as other (the bell) herbs produced by Herbapol?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u92	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u93	...like homeopathic drugs covered almost with a curse. Is this the right direction to be used in treatment and treatment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u94	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address the rapporteur, Mr Sachajka, who, as we know, enjoys a good deal with the PiS today. Why is this bill so narrowed down, sir? Why is it against the interests of patients? Why didn't you make the changes that the Parliamentary Panel proposed? Marijuana legalization? Why didn't you introduce a drug refund for children with drug-resistant epilepsy or people with brain glioma? Why didn't you introduce the possibility of producing medical marijuana under restrictions by entrepreneurs in Poland who could make money on it? Why didn't you introduce training opportunities for doctors to know what the beneficial effects of medical marijuana are? Why do you propose such a shredded, fuselage, and (The Bell) a really hopeless bill, even though you could change so much? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u96	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u97	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We know that cannabis is plants with enormous medical potential, which are used where other medicines can't, e.g. cancer, drug-resistant epilepsy or chronic pain. Luckily, several years ago in Poland, medical marijuana was allowed to be used, but it was banned from breeding. Today it comes from Israel, Canada, Spain, which unfortunately significantly increases its costs and limits its availability. Some have been waiting for this drug for several years or even several years. Polish farmers are no less honest than those from Canada, from Israel, and could also grow cannabis honestly in Poland. However, you suggest that only research institutes should do this, hence my question: Why? How much will it cost to get the right permits? How long will it take to get them? How much will it cost to cover these crops by monitoring? How will this affect the cost of producing these drugs with these sharpenings? Will export also be possible and what about refunds? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u98	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15. Are you an MP?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u99	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! I'm here, I'm writing down my questions, and I'm about to answer them. But I have a question for the Minister of Health, because in this law we actually allow something that many previous governments did not allow, i.e. that medical cannabis should be produced in Poland, in Polish institutes. Only here do we have an agricultural institute that will produce pharmaceutical raw materials, and the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspectorate, which allows pharmaceutical raw materials to be sold in pharmacies. And my question to the Minister: Has this contact, relationship been established, or did the chief pharmaceutical inspector say what requirements will have to be met by this pharmaceutical raw material, which will produce an agricultural institute, so that the first batch of medical cannabis will be in pharmacies within a few months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u100	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The purpose of the Act is to authorise the cultivation and harvesting of hemp other than fibrous hemp by a state research institute, which is intended to result in, among others, in particular: to reduce the price of medical marijuana in pharmacies. Will the cultivation of these hemp in Poland by the research institute actually lead to a reduction in the prices of medical marijuana in pharmacies in those formal legal conditions which are included in the law as regards cultivation and all supervisory issues? What are the estimates of the ministry? When marijuana is available from the plantation of this institute, will this drug price in the pharmacy be lower for the entitled? I would like to ask for a written reply if such financial simulations are carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm performing with a similar thesis as the socialists, which is amazing. I wanted to ask the applicants because I'm against it, the whole Confederation is against taxing things, but I realize that if alcohol is taxed, and it's high, tobacco is taxed, as well as our daily bread, then how will marijuana be, it must also be taxed, because otherwise. The government wouldn't miss it. Since each law should have a clause on how much we will lose, I would like to know how much the Polish state's budget will lose on the rejection of this law. I hope that the applicants will complete this project with this extremely important number, because we would like to know how much we will lose on rejecting this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u104	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u105	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! That's a good step. As you say, you have not chosen a more effective solution. But regarding medical marijuana, I have the following questions: How prepared is KOWR, who will keep the register? How much will it cost to monitor and monitor? The State indicates that the budget will have certain revenues for this purpose. I wanted to ask you how much you've estimated this revenue and how much cheaper it's gonna be if you don't accept the refund. The point is, today, medical marijuana is imported from Canada and from other countries, and if we have ours, how much cheaper are drugs gonna be? When do you decide to make a medical marijuana refund? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u106	Thank you. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u107	Even if you're doing something in the right direction, it's in such a terrible way that you'll have to be cleaned up again later. I can see that, unfortunately, the state on the right feels like the guardians of the monopoly that alcohol producers have won on the market for psychoactive substances, and you are jealously guarding the privilege of poisoning Poles with one of the chosen substances, which is alcohol and which can actually be loaded into the customer without restrictions. On the other hand, you guard this not selflessly, because in alcohol most of the prices are taxes, it's a drop on your government, so actually who doesn't drink, as the poet said, is a subversive and consciously reducing the income of the state as a non-idealist. [[Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke: The enemy of the country, the enemy of the country.]] But when this jealousy goes to the limits of medicine, it really stops being funny. If, in the name of keeping tabs on the proceeds of selling your favorite drug, you're restricting your ability to produce drugs by re-establishing some kind of idiotic monopoly, then you're just cynical hypocrites. [[The bell, the applause.]] Here's a table of drug-related harm. Alcohol is here, cannabis is here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u109	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is, of course, a technical act and a microstep, which was already here today. mentioned, so I have no doubt about it and the KORWiN party's environment will certainly support this law. Ladies and gentlemen! But every time this topic comes into public discussion, one thing really bothers me. This thing is hypocritical. Well, we live in a world where anyone who wants has access to someone who can take steps, marijuana paths, medical or recreational, doesn't matter. And let me say more: I am convinced that among this part of 230 people representing the ruling party are those who use it, but always raise their hands against it. You should take giant steps and learn how to make money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You should stop pretending that you have nothing to do with this, because the government could make a profit by letting it go on the market, letting this market grow in a normal way and collecting taxes for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u110	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jerzy Hardie-Douglas, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u111	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! There are producer registers, they are indicated in the act by institutions that consent to production, and then it turns out that the state is still talking about one company. Mr Sachajko does not hide that it is the Institute of fibre plants from Poznań. I've been asking because I think it's kind of psychic that you're making a bill under one company. In such a case, the light always turns on immediately, that something is wrong. So once again, I ask you the question I asked you at the Health Committee meeting: What are the contradictions of the law so that other operators can also apply for hemp other than fibrous hemp in accordance with the various provisions of the Act? You will lead to a monopoly and therefore (the bell) the prices of medicines will not fall at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u112	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u113	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. Because our discussion, our debate at least at this point is watching over 1 000. people on YouTube, and also people who play our session on the Sejm pages, I would very much ask that the Minister explain to Polish patients why medical marijuana therapy is not possible in the Polish legal system. Why did you not want to accept the amendment that we tabled with Mrs Zawisza at the Health Committee meeting? I think that Polish patients have the right to know why they, people who suffer from drug-resistant epilepsy, cancer patients who face enormous suffering, are deprived of support in the form of State refunds. If the Minister does not answer in the Chamber today, please answer in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u114	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u115	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In June last year, I tried to buy medical marijuana. I'll tell you what this road looks like through torment. No doctor in the clinic wants to write a prescription. You need to look for an online doctor who, despite getting a discharge indicating cancer and indications, pays 250 zlotys online to get this prescription. Then you go to the pharmacy. In the pharmacy a friend of the pharmacist, knowing how difficult the situation is, says: at a wholesale price of 10 g it costs 600 PLN. Why isn't this refunded? And another question, very important. Mr Sachaiko, this will be an empty bill. Do you know why? You turned to pharmaceutical surveillance here. Do you know what the basic requirement for raw materials is to produce medical marijuana, which is pure marijuana, with a certain composition and a stable amount of substance? This requirement is the DMP, which is the basic thing that every institute must have to produce. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking who has it in Poland. Only one Pharmaceutical Institute in Warsaw. If they don't have it, they'll never produce raw material. There must be monitoring of the amount of substances, the use of pesticides and many other things. Pesticide testing is carried out in Germany because in Poland no laboratory is doing this. Where are the records in the bill, on the basis of which we could say that every producer, if he has it, will be able to produce, not an institute that has no idea at all and has no chance of obtaining these permits? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u116	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Konrad Berkowicz, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u117	Ladies and gentlemen! I have a friend who has a son who has cerebral palsy, a child who also has drug-resistant epilepsy, which is one who doesn't respond to standard medicines from pharmaceutical companies. This child has several painful seizures of epilepsy a day. Of course, it has long been proven that cannabis preparations are the only solution to this problem. And a lot of suffering, because first it wasn't allowed to be used at all, then it's supposed to happen. it was, but it was hard to find a doctor, because there are no medical procedures, and once a doctor has been found, it was later several times the problem with getting it because we are not allowed to grow it. This is an outrage, this is a great deal of suffering, which results from the fact that you've insane yourself as politicians, that you have the right to say what a man can eat, smoke, what drugs he can take. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Stop doing that, and it won't be a problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u118	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Rozenek, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mrs Niedziela, I am addressing you - no refund will be needed if we allow people simply to grow bushes at home. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Why not?]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Yes, sir.]] That wouldn't be a problem. Indeed, the price is sluggish, but it comes from a monopoly. But there's something else I'd like to ask you. The Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector will issue permits to institutes. I'd like to ask you about these institutes, Minister. If my friend and I set up an institute, will you grant such permission or not? If Mr Mejza and his colleague set up an institute, will they get permission or not, is this only the case for state institutes? If it's about the state, I'm asking if the National Remembrance Institute, the Institute of National Remembrance, will be able to grow marijuana, too, because at least then it would be useful. [[Applause]] Guys, what are you doing? Let all Poles do what they want. If they want to grow a plant like this, let them grow it. If they don't want to, don't let them grow it, it's a simple matter. Not the institutes and the corrupt system in which you will issue permits (the bell) and your police will control it. This is ridiculous. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's what we're saying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u121	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Medical marijuana is an important remedy for anyone affected by the disease. Today there is a huge pathology, actually there is no availability, there is a problem of prescription. Accessibility should be absolutely greater. It cannot be that only one institute indicated in the Act will produce medicinal marijuana, which helps in the treatment. The Polish system allows many entrepreneurs under certain rigors to produce. Polish patients will probably need many tons of this substance and we do not think that one institute is able to meet the needs of all patients in Poland, because it is simply impossible. More trust, there are entrepreneurs who produce drugs and operate under a huge control regime. Why should we not trust Polish entrepreneurs (The Bell) who can help in the production of medicinal marijuana as well as help Polish patients? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u122	Thank you very much. Last question, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u123	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, two questions. The first concerns issues of Polish companies, Polish entrepreneurs. Why is it that the government does not allow what, I think, in other countries is taking place, that is, the involvement of the private sector, which would benefit the economy, the people? The second question concerns specific cases and those who want to use them. How, because there really are problems with doctors writing prescriptions, will the government strengthen the position of patients? And another question about this area. How will patients be able to document the fact that they are participants or use such therapy so that it does not result in a negative outcome for them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u124	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Maciej Miłkowski to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u125	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Several questions have been raised, part in writing, concerning the business plan of this undertaking and the final price determination of the product. We didn't get that information from the institute. It's a parliamentary project, we haven't done that kind of analysis, but we'll answer in writing what it looks like. With regard to the current prices of pharmaceutical raw materials for the preparation of medicines and the question of why it is not refunded, I already spoke at the Health Committee meeting on the point that we see the only way to refund this product as a medicinal product, a medicine. As of today, we only have one drug registered. Sativex in Poland, but we do not have a refund application, and only such a way of refunding is possible. We can see that this is only possible within the framework of the drug program, because there is a precise indication of the reimbursement, to whom this medicine is most helpful and to which exactly the medical indication. And we believe that this is justified, especially after the entry into force of this law. Once the raw material has been registered and the medicinal product has been prepared from this raw material, we will certainly try to strengthen it and speed it up if there is no such proposal before. I have spoken to several companies that have a knowledge of the market for the production of these medicines, with companies that produce in Poland and which are already in the world market for this raw material and are also interested in buying from Polish production, as we have said, an institute supervised by the Minister of Agriculture. As you say, today it is one institute, but there are more institutes supervised by the Minister of Agriculture. And of course, as far as I know, the Institute of National Remembrance is not supervised by the Minister of Agriculture, so that there is no possibility of producing hemp under this law. So there's no such thing here. As for Mr Korwin-Mikke's questions, how much he will lose his budget, as I have already said, we believe that this is a good product, a good activity for research institutes, and this is clearly a production that can bring significant income to these institutes. The Institutes cover their revenue costs, and we therefore believe that this is a very good direction so that these institutes can have significantly higher profitability for the development of their core activities, R &amp; D activities. And that's a good direction for countries. The question is why are the institutes supervised by the Minister of Agriculture. I also told you at the Health Committee meeting that Poland signed the UN Convention in the 1960s. And here we do not plan, like your fellow Members, to leave the organization in order to be able to carry out anything we like. We believe that medicinal marijuana is not just a personal matter, it is about public health and should be used entirely for medicinal processes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As far as the JMP is concerned, the company must, of course, take this into account in the business plan. The registration office shall be in contact and prepare and give attention to this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u126	Thank you very much. Please, the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Jarosław Sachajko.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you all very much for this debate. She's needed. There were some substantive questions, for example. the profitability of the crops. I, of course, asked Minister Gembick about this profitability during the process. The Institute has prepared such estimates. The Institute has declared, and I hope that the Minister will make sure that the gram is no more expensive than 30 PLN, which is still twice as cheap as it is being imported at the moment. But unfortunately, here we had a very emotional, very hypocritical speech by Mrs Maciejewska, who said that it was a hopeless bill and asked why she would not introduce a great loosening. I would like to tell all of you who are watching us that it was the Left who had many years to do this and did not do it. It was in the time of the Left that cannabis cultivation was destroyed. In Poland we had a beautiful tradition and it was not done. So tearing up clothes and such scandalous words that were spoken here, false words, is an attempt to play on the emotions of Poles, on the emotions of patients. See how many years the Left ruled in Poland. Did she do anything about it? At the moment, the Left boasts, according to this proverb: the horse is beating, the frog's leg is laying that they have fought for it since 2002. They just fought so hard, it got worse. The right hand came, the Kukiz15 appeared and we have a bill, a very good bill, as I said, which will soon lead to the fact that we will have Polish hemp in pharmacies, cheap cannabis. The Member here spoke of her being against patients. It was against the patients that the Left didn't have access to cannabis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u128	Excuse me, sir, but you are the rapporteur of the committee. I wish I could...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u129	And I answer your questions, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u130	But that's what I'd like it to be for questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u131	That was the question, that's exactly what you said.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u132	There was no question about the left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u133	I'm quoting. The Member says: Why is there no refund possible? Minister - as if you had stayed at the committee meeting - said that there would be a refund, but medicines that would be raised later. And I wanted to inform everyone that there are several companies, Polish pharmaceutical companies, who want to obtain this raw material from an institute that has very much experience in cultivation, and want to produce medicines that will later be refunded. She asked why there is no training for doctors. I, Mrs President, wanted to say that doctors know what to do with this, doctors are trained and this was also mentioned in the committee, all they had to do was stay and listen and not tear up their clothes here. I was very surprised to hear from you, or the question, Mrs. Dorothy Sunday about the GMP and the fact that the doctors won't write. So if you have such a family doctor, and any family doctor can write a prescription for cannabis, you need to change the doctor. It's just that this doctor isn't fit to be your doctor. And the institute will have permission. And that's what I was asking you about, just linking the chief pharmaceutical inspector to the institute. These two institutions will get along and it will be at the price available. Mr Korwin asked how much we would lose as people if this law was not implemented. As people, we're gonna get our money and we're gonna get our budget because people are gonna get their stuff. 'Cause there's a lot of things to say here. Mr. Rozenek said the same thing you said from the Left that why everyone shouldn't have it. This is about people needing a cure, not, as it says, a famous password, planting, smoking, legalizing. It's supposed to be for the patient as soon as he finds out about the disease, and he's not gonna wonder where to buy seeds, how to grow them, and then what's really gonna work out. We're taking this professionally, and we're not trying to... Just like the left hand here sometimes boasts that she lowered her excise duty on alcohol. And that's why we're in the first place in terms of alcohol consumption. Now there's obviously a thought about it (the bell) so that we're in the first place of drug use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u134	Thank you very much. I'm closing... Oh, I'm sorry. In the procedure of correcting Mrs Maciejewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u135	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ad vocem of what Mr Sachajko said, who complains here from the speaker that someone is criticizing his hull project - he has not answered in principle any of my questions and seems to have no idea... [[Voice from the room: Is that a correction?]] ...what is the patient's situation today and what is today's real knowledge of medical marijuana.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u137	I go to trial of patients all over Poland... [[Voice from the room: This is not a corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u139	...from Krosno, through Bydgoszcz, to Gdynia, where patients who do not have access to medical marijuana are brought to justice and treated as criminals. This bill, which today is proposed by PiS-related Mr Sachaiko, who could have negotiated much more, does not introduce...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u140	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u141	...no change.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u142	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u143	It's just totally hulled. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't tell me such foolishness from the Seym Council, Mr Sachaiko. [[That's what you're telling me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u144	Mrs... Please, Mr Sachajko, and we are closing...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I do not wish to refer personally to what you have said, but she insults Polish doctors. My wife is a doctor, and I assure you she knows how to discharge, and she knows how to use... [[I'm not talking about your wife, please write to the medical center.]] And I know... There are thousands of others... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Your Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u146	Madame, I ask you to remain calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u147	And there are thousands of other doctors who have access to it. What you're talking about is... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Your Marshal, I would very much ask that I speak. [[Stop calling your wife.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u148	Madame, I ask you to remain calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u149	Member, I know that there is a problem with culture, and I know that it is... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Your Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u150	But don't raise your voice to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u151	First of all, not at you, but I'd like to say something that will be heard.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u152	Good. Firstly, I ask the Member to remain calm. You're welcome, sir. We're done here.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u153	There are thousands of doctors, ladies and gentlemen who are releasing. And I said it from that podium. If there's any doctor who doesn't want you to prescribe medical cannabis, you need to change the doctor. And this situation, which Mrs Maciejewska described, is precisely this black market. It's bought on the black market because those charlatans are saying they're cheaper, they're better. The better one is the one bought at the pharmacy we know what's in it, because the one bought on the black market is bred under different conditions, is of unknown composition, and very often other psychotropic agents are added there. To insult the Members who have prepared this bill, to say that it is hulled... Ladies and gentlemen, time will tell. Time will show how the Left is wrong in everything, trying to discredit everyone else. The last thing you spoke about. Indeed, Kukiz15 can work with anyone, and the state, as you can see, can't work with anyone but insult them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u154	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction and the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre (Prints No 1611 and 1977). I ask Mr Jarosław Sachaika to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u155	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Agriculture on Print No. 1611, i.e. the Parliamentary draft law on amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction and the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre. The committee held its first reading at its meeting on 20 December 2021. The meeting was attended by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Anna Gembicka. 15 amendments were tabled during the meeting. Amendments 2 to 8 and Amendments 10 and 11 are harmonised and more precise. Amendment 1 introduces amendments to take into account the possibility of processing low morphine poppy or fibre hemp from own crops to its own extent. Amendments 12 and 13. confer powers on the competent director of the KOWR branch to carry out checks on crops and crops of poppy or hemp, and to issue an order to destroy the cultivation or yield of poppy or fibre hemp. Amendment 14 clarifies the circumstances under which criminal provisions are applied in connection with the infringement of the law. Amendment 15 amends the date of entry into force of the Act of 1 January 2022 to 30 days from the date of publication. It is due to the fact that the law had its first reading later than we assumed by submitting this law. In the vote, the Commission adopted a proposal for the Sejm to adopt a draft law amending the Anti-drugs Act and the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre with 34 votes, with one vote against and one abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u156	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, the first floor will be taken by Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club in the case of the parliamentary draft law amending the Anti-drugs Act and the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre, as in the case of the previous law, Kukiz Members15 and Law and Justice, print No 1611. The bill concerns the cultivation of fibre hemp and poppy. It is intended to support these crops while, of course, taking into account the overarching objective of combating drug addiction. The solutions so far have affected the area of cultivation and the potential for the development of the national bioeconomy. Speaking of restrictions, we should keep in mind For example, every producer and purchaser of poppy or hemp shall submit an annual application, together with all documentation, to the wojews, mayors, city presidents or marshals of voivodships for a decision authorising the cultivation or buying in poppy or fibre hemp. And yet included is the voivodship seymik responsible for determining the area of poppy and hemp crops. The proposed arrangements which will facilitate operators' activities in the field of cultivation and the buying-in of poppy or hemp are: quick registration and keeping of the data set (registration) in one place; no obligation to collect and submit documents annually by the operator; no obligation to obtain an annual authorisation; no surface, regional and temporary restriction in the authorisation for cultivation and buying; an extension of the purpose and purpose for which poppy or fibre hemp may be used. These objectives include energy, veterinary, feed, composite materials, land remediation and remediation, bee-keeping and fertilising targets - here as natural plant protection products. It is also proposed that fibrous poppy and hemp may also be grown for own use, for research purposes and for breeding new varieties of poppy and fibre hemp. An important change is that the law transfers the obligation to monitor poppy and fibre hemp crops, removes it from the mounds, mayors and presidents of cities competent for the location of the crop and imposes it on the National Agricultural Support Centre. This is also to apply to the monitoring of buying-in and the keeping of a register of operators who cultivate poppy or hemp. This register shall be kept by the Director of the KOWR off-site branch responsible for the place of residence and address or seat and address of the entity. Of course, it is very important that the draft law protects anti-drug measures: the register of purchasers kept by KOWR concerns only those first purchasers of poppy or fibrous hemp (this will facilitate checks carried out by KOWR or the police), applications for registration will contain precise information such as: the applicant's data, the identification of the entities with which contracts have been concluded for the supply of poppy or fibre hemp, or a declaration of the use or processing of these plants for the purposes or purposes set out in the Act, in the case of poppy cultivation, a statement that the applicant has a room protected from theft, information on the variety of poppy or hemp, the planned area and the location of the crop. These data will be made available, among others. public administrations. Provision is made for KOWR to carry out checks on producers and purchasers of poppy or fibre hemp, to check the information contained in the applications and to control the cultivation of poppy and fibre hemp. Before the actual start of cultivation, the opinion on how to protect it against unauthorised access will be drawn up by the police and the authorisation will be issued by the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector. A system of penalties is also foreseen, including: for the provision of false information in the application for registration, the failure to provide information on the change of data in relation to those contained in the application. In the case of poppy or fibre hemp cultivation without registration in the KOWR register, it shall decide to destroy the crop, in certain situations it shall notify the police. We consider the proposed project to be a good one, creating an outlook for the development of the bioeconomy based on the increased supply of domestic fibre and poppy raw materials, and at the same time, as I said, safe. The Law and Justice Club therefore supports the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u158	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Anna Wojciechowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club regarding this law on amending the Anti-drug Act and the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre. The Act aims to support the development of poppy and fibre hemp crops while taking into account the prevention of drug abuse. The main difference with regard to the previous project, which has just been processed, is that this is not taken into account when raising the THC level in fibrous hemp from 0,2% up to 0.3%. This is not taken into account in this project, but changes are expected to facilitate the operation of these crops. That's, among other things. quick registration, record of all data in one place, no surface restriction; only in the case of own crops is the limit of 10 a year. Monitoring, register and crop control shall be assigned to the National Agricultural Support Centre. This is currently being done by marshal offices and municipalities. The obligation for breeders to obtain an entry on the central list of crops, also maintained by KOWR, shall be introduced. It is also advisable to introduce all the recipients of the products concerned there. Crops shall be adequately protected against unwanted recipients. The project also provides for an extension of the objectives of farming. It's about destiny, among others. for energy, veterinary, feed, bees and fertilisers and plant protection products. The cost of handling this project is 964 thousand. a year - but there will be 12 new jobs - and 100,000. a year for IT services. In addition, the cost of building an IT system is about 440 thousand. zł. The Civic Coalition Club will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u160	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! hemp in Poland is used to criminalize people. Until recently farmers - and probably still will - who grow fibrous hemp, i.e. those from which they make foodstuffs, clothing, building materials, etc., because we are talking about this now, could go to prison if they exceeded 0,2% in these crops. THC. The second thing is the huge tightening that has been in force so far: the need to register and receive annual approval. Parliamentary Panel on Marijuana's legalisation, like Mr Sachajko, has developed a project to facilitate the cultivation of fibre hemp to farmers. Both projects today meet the needs of farmers in Poland and the growing hemp industry. Let me remind you that in December Ub. The Polish Chamber of Konopi was established, bringing together more than 100 cannabis producers, founded on the initiative of the Free Konopie Association. Let me remind you that the Polish hemp company, as one of the few companies in Poland, sold its shares at the crowdfunding auction for 1 million euros in 40 minutes. Today, the solutions proposed in this bill meet farmers and industry. It's a pity that this doesn't apply to medical marijuana either. It is also important to remember this - it is not in this law, it was in the previous law, but it is connected with the cultivation of fibrous hemp - so that we do not make criminals with farmers. The point is that farmers, like patients, can benefit from hemp, whether it's fibrous hemp or cannabis other than fibrous hemp. As a Left, we will make amendments to this project concerning small things, small things: the need to connect invoices, how checks are to be carried out, because we recognise that the law on the prevention of drug addiction should be applied as little as possible to the cultivation of fibrous hemp. Penalization of cannabis use for decades has shown that it is completely meaningless. If we want to develop agriculture today, let us meet the needs, because cannabis can be used in all sectors. As a Left, we will support this bill. At this point, I'm putting the Marshal in your hands with our amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u162	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives on the parliamentary bill amending the law on anti-drugs and the Act on the National Centre for Agricultural Support. The project concerns support for the development of poppy and fibre hemp crops while taking into account the overarching objective of combating drug addiction. The draft amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction proposes solutions which will make it easier for operators to carry out their activities in the field of cultivation and to buy poppy or hemp by: quick registration and carrying out a data collection in one place, no obligation for the entity to collect and submit documentation annually, no obligation to obtain an annual authorisation, no surface, regional and temporary restriction on the authorisation granted for cultivation and procurement, an extension of the purpose and purpose for which poppy or fibre hemp may be used. The proposed amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction will also contain two definitions, concerning the producer of poppy and the producer of fibre hemp, specifying the entities active in this field. It is also proposed to extend the objectives for which poppy and fibre hemp crops are to be cultivated, inter alia. energy, veterinary, feed, composite materials, land remediation and remediation, bee-keeping and fertilising as natural plant protection products. In addition, poppy and fibrous hemp can also be grown for own use, research needs and for breeding new varieties of poppy and fibre hemp. The contested law transfers the obligation to monitor poppy and hemp crops from the competent local authorities due to the location of the crop to the National Agricultural Support Centre. In addition, it is proposed that the monitoring of the buy-in should also be carried out by the KOWR and not, as is currently the case, by the marshals' offices. At the same time, the amendment of the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction takes into account the introduction of a register of operators who practice poppy or fibrous hemp. It is proposed that this register be kept by the Director of the KOWR field branch responsible for the place of residence and address or the establishment and address of the entity. I would like to draw attention to legislation that limits the role of local governments in creating their local economy. Of course, we understand the fact that the introduction of the register has a major impact on the fight against drug addiction and the facilitation of crop control to such a degree as to determine whether the cultivated plant is legal and the plant product obtained from this crop is safe. It is precisely this concern about this draft law that the chief council of nurses and locals, which fears that the amendment will lead to easier access to marijuana, increased consumption, negative health and social impacts, and an absolute increase in public spending on treatment and rehabilitation of addicts, and additional burdens on medicinal users. At the same time, we support the position of the Wielkopolska government, which stated that the emergence of a new solution in the form of a register bringing together all market participants in the field of poppy and hemp cultivation and buying with the current use of IT solutions is a problem that can be solved in a simple way - through the creation of an information exchange platform in which both local authorities and the National Agricultural Support Centre can participate. However, it has to be admitted that, as far as the main matter is concerned, this bill has good assumptions and can develop Polish agriculture in a measurable way. The evidence is that the National Council of Agricultural Chambers made only one cosmetic amendment in the course of its opinion, adding a few words to the wording of their mouths. Article 2 Forty-five anti-drug laws. This will clearly benefit agriculture by increasing the possibilities of both hemp and poppy cultivation. In this case, consumers will have the greatest profit by increasing the supply of hemp and poppy. Consequently, there will be a fall in the prices of products made from these plants. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, the State will also be able to charge for registration fees and will also benefit from other taxes. The Polish People's Party parliamentary club will support this law. However, your Marshal, we are placing an amendment on your hands because some of the Marshal's offices, Mazowiecki, Zachodniopomorskie and Wielkopolski offices ask that the bill be restored in its original form, so that the Marshal's offices issue opinions on entries in the register. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u164	Thank you very much, sir. And here you are, Mr Michael Urbaniak, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Confederation, we support the facilitation of cannabis and poppy plantations while at the same time controlling drugs. At the same time, we support facilitation, support for people producing even fibrous hemp, as they are widely used in industry and can really help improve our country's budgetary position. As we know, this government is very fond of new taxes, so I'm not surprised it's bringing it in. In this case, we agree. We are in favour of supporting national producers, facilitating the establishment of our own farms and businesses and becoming independent from foreign markets, because we know that Polish agriculture has had a problem with this for years, not only in this single industry. The use of cannabis for medical purposes is also safe, and effective in the treatment of many ailments, so it is in the interest of patients that access to medicines created from these substances is as broad as possible to make it as possible, just for Poles. In conclusion, I will say that support for hemp and poppy crops, subject to the fact that it will be medical and industrial products, is as acceptable as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u166	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u167	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In my previous speech, I mentioned a little bit about what the whole cannabis market and the cultivation of these hemp would look like, but I am glad that although some small steps are being taken, and I think that the other side of the political scene that I think has always called for this. Ladies and gentlemen! As I also said here less than an hour ago, firstly, the state should understand the needs of people who want and often have to benefit from it, secondly, the state should understand that there is a gigantic market for which the state, for some strange reason, does not want to benefit from superstition. To use this market we encourage, encourage as free marketers, as people who think that the market should be free, that if someone wants to buy something, they should be able to buy it, and someone else should produce it for someone who wants to buy it. If someone wants to benefit from this, such trade should be allowed in all possible fields. Let's start with the one that's here. Very well, but I hope that's not the end of the discussion. We will support this and hope that you will be more willing to discuss the expansion of this list in the future, and that we in turn ensure that we do our best to ensure that the tax burden on the free trade mentioned by me is as low as possible for the trader and for the customer as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u168	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I am pleased to present the position of the Polska 2050 wheel against the parliamentary draft law from print no. 1611 on the amendment of the law on the prevention of drug addiction and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! The most important thing to say about this project is that Poland is a little bit normal thanks to this project. Normally, from the point of view of those who cultivate poppy and fibrous hemp. Normally, from the point of view of people who want to benefit from this production in different ways. The whole list of new uses, new possibilities for the use of fibrous hemp and poppy, which this law gives, has been mentioned many times. It is normal, from the point of view of state authorities, who will be able to deal with what is very necessary and not with what was completely pointless, because this bill gives the opportunity to register these crops quickly to keep a register of these crops in one place. This hasn't been practiced so far, and it's definitely needed. For producers, this law means that there is no obligation to collect and submit documents annually, no obligation to obtain an annual permit, so all kinds of bureaucratic obligations are removed from people who simply want to carry out their activities. As one of my predecessors said here, the bill allows farmers not to make criminals. And that, I think, is very important in this bill. Lower costs on the state side, while improving the effectiveness of the surveillance system for these crops. In fact, it's all about benefits. Of course, this is a small step forward, but a step forward. For this reason, of course, we will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u170	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Circle 15 - Direct Democracy, I have the honour to present the position of the Circle on the parliamentary draft law amending the law on the prevention of drug addiction and the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre. This is Kukiz's second approach to this problem. In the previous term, we also had a similar project. I think that this project will already be signed by the President in this term of office. The bill responds to all the problems farmers have reported. I'm sorry, not all of them, because I still have the corrections, and there's one more thing to improve. I hope that this amendment will be accepted in a moment at the committee meeting. So farmers really see their great chance in hemp because this is a diversification of farmers' incomes. It's a good thing we're going this way. It is the elimination of all absurdities, which have been for years, starting with this absurdity, that the Marshal of the voivodship could decide whether hemp sown in a given voivodship will be allowed to be sown. It's like the marshal wants to decide if the beets will be sown or if the wheat will be sown. It's just absurd. I am pleased and thank the Law and Justice that we are jointly eliminating these absurdities. You have heard here again just now, especially from the Left, that farmers are treated as criminals. And I wanted to tell you that this is what the Left did, ladies and gentlemen. Check the bill. The draft law on the prevention of drug abuse, where farmers were made criminals, was introduced in 2005 by the Left. And it is this hypocrisy that right now the Left is tearing apart the robes that harm is done, and she has done it. That is why I thank once again the Minister and all the Members who have worked honestly, without emotion, to improve everything that has been done over the years - I will repeat: since the time of the Left - it has been corrupted. There are really great opportunities and huge potential in this plant, potential for making money. I will not repeat this, I will list the possibilities that are there, but I will say that farmers in the agricultural retail trade will also be able to process and sell this plant, farmers in direct sales will be able to sell their crops in order to make money. not only on the production of basic products (The Bell), but also on the entire sales chain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u172	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis, will be the first to speak. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u173	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The explanatory memorandum states: It is assumed that the proposed changes may contribute to the improvement of the state budget as a result of the increase in tax revenues associated with the development of the bioeconomy, based on the increased supply of domestic fibre and poppy raw materials, also taking into account additional expenditure on the creation and maintenance of a crop monitoring system by KOWR and savings related to the transfer of tasks in this area from local government. Minister! I would very much like to ask for information on the extent to which the influence will be. Do you have any estimate of this? Is that really true? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u174	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u175	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In view of the well-being and safety of users of cannabis production, I would like to ask what is meant by the room and the means of transport protected against theft of the product. A person carrying out an activity is required to make such a statement, so it is responsible for this, including criminal liability. What authority and on what basis can it make decisions in Poland whether the premises or vehicles properly protect products from theft? Will the police, at the request of the cannabis grower, issue him such a certificate? If it's not the police, I'm gonna ask you to identify the appropriate institution to issue such a certificate. I ask you kindly to answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For centuries Poland has been a producer of poppy. Our neighbors bought it, exported it, bought it from us. I get nervous when I see in the grocery store that the poppy now we import from the neighbors. That's a bad direction, and I don't think it's wise. In the draft law I also find no information that one of the objectives is the food purpose. We produce poppy, because we would like to buy it in Polish shops. I also wonder if it's really right for the police to give their consent, the police to control it. The police have quite different tasks, I think much more important. Let me remind you that we are still a few thousand policemen short. Should they really be directed to the poppy fields? I don't think so. The direction of the law is very right to finally deal with normal production, normal plants which are to Poland as if attributed. On the other hand, the road itself... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it really a way of developing this form of agriculture, or is it a further restriction, although perhaps there is no longer any penalisation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u179	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions for the Minister. One shall refer to Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6, which states that hemp is authorised for own use on an area of up to 100 a. That's a big question, Minister. For own use on an area of up to 100 a? The one who wrote it down - what was his intention to allow it to grow on an area of 100 a? The second question is for Mr Sachaika. Mr President, I know that you have changed your seat and now you like this centralization too. But I think that no marshal has ever allowed himself to limit any area due to the application by individual producers, through municipalities, of poppy or hemp cultivation. I think the idea of a change is bad. I think the closer the producer of self-government is, the greater the control, the more confidence in what is happening. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think we should stay with this system, which was, i.e., the military marshals of the voivodship... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u180	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło. There is no Member. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Question: "Is there going to be redundancies at marshal offices due to the acquisition of the obligation to coordinate the production of flax hemp and poppy by KOWR?" Isn't this an artificial and unjustified expansion of the KOWR staff? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mishalski. There isn't. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u183	Mr. Liberty Man Kaczyński! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The facilitation of fibre hemp production is a step in the right direction, so I suggest we follow the blow and defrost the recreational marijuana project as well. According to scientists, marijuana is less addictive than alcohol or nicotine. So why can you buy the last two substances everywhere, even interestingly, at a gas station, and for having up to 1.5 g of marijuana you can go to jail for 3 years? Just point out one rational reason why we shouldn't legalize marijuana. Because the arguments are at hand. No more drug dealing among young people, no more smuggling tones of this substance across the border, no more drug mafia activity. You can monitor how many people take marijuana. Savings for the state budget. Cops can take care of more important things, the taxpayer doesn't pay for smoking time, and the courts don't judge them. New jobs. In the U.S. - 200,000. new jobs (the bell), in Poland - let it be even 20, it would be useful. At the end of the firecracker - the last sentence, your marshal - when you include marijuana with excise duty and VAT, as with tobacco products, is an additional PLN 9 billion to the budget. Why not use them?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u184	Thank you, Member. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is one thing to pay attention to in the processed law. The cultivation of hemp and poppy in our country is now under control. Producers and purchasers of poppy or hemp shall submit an application to the competent authorities each year together with all documentation of the decision authorising the cultivation and buying in of poppy or hemp. New solutions abolish these requirements. In order to be able to grow hemp or poppy, all you need to do is apply to the National Agricultural Support Centre. The Act also provides for the possibility of producing poppy and hemp for own use. The Act is a great facilitation for agricultural producers. Nevertheless, I have some doubts. How does the title of anti-drug prevention include the fact that it is also planned to add a provision that will increase the content of hallucinogenic substances in drought? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u186	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u187	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the debate on the previous project, I asked Minister Miłkowski a question, but I did not receive an answer. That question might as well be answered by the Minister. The point is that the Institute of Natural Textiles and Herbal Plants or other institutes... It is not said that only this institute will cultivate it. We have 12 institutes subordinate to the Minister of Agriculture. The Institute has already declared that it can produce twice as much medical cannabis as the current demand. I'm counting on them to be produced. What about GIH? Has the Institute been in contact with the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspectorate yet? The point is to meet all the requirements so that cannabis grown by the institute can be sold in pharmacies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u189	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The rules are quite strict with regard to the individuals who can take up this activity. On the other hand, I wanted to ask you about the control element. The rules provide for control. Will the Ministry in any way prepare guidelines on how crops are to be controlled? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The Act provides for additional tasks for KOWR concerning monitoring of the poppy market and the fibre hemp market. What will be the cost to the state budget of introducing additional tasks for the NEB? Secondly, according to the Bureau of Analysis and Expertise, it is said that on these changes they may possibly lose the municipalities. The introduction of a one-off fee may contribute to the loss of municipal revenue. How do you assess this change? She's good for the applicants. It'll be a one-time fee. Will this result in a reduction in the income of municipalities? If so, what are the predictions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The transfer of control and registration of hemp and poppy crops to the level of KOWR branches is a very good solution. However, the risk of possible smuggling of high THC crops in these crops is very high. Is KOWR prepared? Will he be able to cope with these tasks? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u194	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Anna Gembicka, to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u195	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the issue of increasing the THC content from 0,2% to 0,3%, that, first of all, refers to the whole law. In one of the clubs' posts, it was advisable that this would not apply to farmers' crops. That's not true. It refers to the whole thing. With regard to the objective of combating drug addiction, I would also like to point out that the increase is due to the fact that, since 2023, in the framework of the reform of the common agricultural policy, EU-level rules on subsidies are also changing. The aid will also be paid for crops where the THC content does not exceed 0,3%. As far as captive crops are concerned, they will be crops whose area will not exceed 1 ha per year. The cultivation of fibre hemp for own use may be carried out for textile, energy, food, veterinary, feed, etc., as laid down in the Act. The current law did not provide for the cultivation of fibre hemp for its own use on its own holding. We introduce that possibility. It's going to be 1 ha a year. Which will also allow us to control the market. At the same time, however, there is no restriction on the area of crops for other purposes or purposes. Regarding the issue of local authorities, here we stand that, however, these previous requirements concerning the opinion of the Marshal's offices are simply unnecessary difficulties, it is additional formalities. We do not want this to be a situation that could delay farmers from getting an entry. As far as the next issue is concerned, the theme of recreational marijuana does not fall within the scope of the project. Regarding the issue of institutes - this is not the subject of this project either, it has occurred in the earlier project. As Mr Sachajko said, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development oversees 12 institutes. According to information obtained from the Ministry of Health, as regards the annual demand for this drought, it is about 500 kg. From this information obtained from the Institute we know that it is able to meet this demand. We're in constant contact with the GIF as well. The point is that, as soon as possible, the Institute of Natural Textiles and Herbal Plants can prepare itself to simply respond to these needs. With regard to the issues of the guidelines for control and what the NEB will control. KOWR will monitor the accuracy of the information contained in the application. We have specified in the law what should be included in the proposal, therefore this is a limited directory and this will be limited to that. As far as the costs of handling the new mechanism are concerned, about 864 thousand. each year, the staff will be assigned to those responsible for these issues and around 100,000. a year for the costs of running the IT system, and the one-off cost of building the IT system will be around 440 thousand. zł. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u196	Thank you, Minister. And please, the rapporteur of the committee of Jarosław Sachaika.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u197	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much again for these questions, which were much more substantive than before. In general, it could be said, in answer to a large part of the questions, that at this moment we are simply removing these absurd provisions of the law on anti-drugs that arose under the rule of the left. This must be recalled: the left has caused farmers to be made into drug producers. Mr. Szopiński was just asking about the rooms and vehicles, asking who would issue the certificates. That's the thing. You don't have to do this. Right here we say that hemp and low morphine poppy are normal plants that should be produced just like beets, wheat, and here you don't need such safeguards. It is written in the law, only the other way, so maybe you didn't understand it. Similarly, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, who spoke about the police's consent. No, you don't. It's just that now the police and other institutions aren't gonna go after farmers, they're gonna go after criminals. Mr Jarosław Rzepa spoke of the fact that the closer the farmer, the marshal and the governor, the better. Well, sir, ask the farmers, because it was this marshal and this governor who very often gave their consent after the time had passed when the farmer could plant it. Because it was just the inertia of these offices that they treated farmers, I'm sorry, per leg: yeah, he's gonna get it out someday. And that's why many farmers didn't sow hemp - they didn't sow, because the marshals' offices and municipalities issued these consents too late. Now it will be centrally for the whole of Poland and it will be a simple registration, not a permit. I know that many politicians are used to the fact that a farmer or a citizen has to walk on his knees to the office and ask for everything. There's nothing to ask. All you have to do is inform, not ask, just like you used to. Mrs Anna Wojciechowska asked whether there would be a reduction in the number of posts in municipalities and marshal offices. Well, it depends on the municipal officials and officials of the Marshal's Office. These jobs can be much better developed than at the moment, not so as to produce empty receipts allowing the cultivation of such a plant that is similar to tobacco, to carrots, to wheat. These officials can focus on a completely different job, so that Poles do not wait for weeks for consent and for various other documents from the municipal offices. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski asked if the communities would lose. It is precisely the municipalities that will gain, because if the municipality is to profit from the fact that every piece of paper will be taken from the citizens, that it will order them to ask for everything and take money for it, if we look at it, then the municipalities will lose, but the municipalities are not from robbing their citizens, they are from making their lives easier. And we make life easier for farmers and Poles. And at the same time, thanks to the fact that there will be more production, that there will be local processing, the municipalities will gain, will gain from this, which means they will not... A lot of municipalities are talking about being poor right now because they're just agricultural. Yeah, that's why we're letting people make money here not only to produce basic products, but we're also giving farmers the opportunity to process and sell, which hasn't happened so far. And once again, I thank the Minister and all the Members who have worked on this, for giving farmers an alternative - that they can grow hemp and earn, earn and earn again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u198	Thank you very much. In corrigendum, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak. Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr President, it was me, in your words, who spoke about the police's opinion or the release of production. Perhaps these two very close projects have somehow assumed that it was in the first, but in my mind, and I ask you very much to clarify this question as to whether the police will intervene when there are irregularities, but in the whole process of allowing production they will not have any involvement and need to deal with this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u200	Thank you very much. You still want to correct it. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u201	Yes. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mrs. Member! Thank you for that clarification. With hemp, the police will have no part in it. I'll say it again, hemp. It's the same plant as tobacco, wheat or beets, so the police aren't involved here. You're right, there's an opinion in the previous medical cannabis project. Please note that there is only a police opinion there, which is not binding. One more thing in this project is written down - and this is where the police didn't see the problem - so that it would be written in such a way that the police would only have 30 days to deliver this opinion, so we wouldn't wait for the unknown. There is another interesting provision concerning the police, which states that if it does not deliver an opinion within 30 days, it means that it has issued a positive opinion. So we're really moving forward with these two projects, so that the economy develops, that patients have access to cannabis and that farmers can make money on hemp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u202	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act - Code of Commercial Companies and some other laws (prints 1515 and 1845). I would very much like to ask Mr Janusz Kowalski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u203	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I have the great honour and honour to present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on changes in the codifications of the Government bill amending the Act - Code of Commercial Companies and some other laws in print No 1515. It is, ladies and gentlemen, all the more honor and honour for me, that as the government's representative for the reform of the ownership supervision of State Treasury companies, I initiated and co-ordinated the preparation of this draft law, which was actually examined in a substantive manner by the committee and the subcommittee. At this point, I will remind you how these work in committee and subcommittees looked like. On 1 October, the Sejm rejected the motion to reject the draft law at first reading and the draft law, the draft of this largest reform of the Commercial Companies Code for 20 years, was addressed to the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications. On 14 October, the Extraordinary Commission also rejected the proposal to reject the project and directed it to work in the Permanent Sub-Committee on the revision of civil law by Mr Grzegorz Lork. At several meetings of the subcommittee on 8, 9, 23 November and 7 December, we discussed the draft submitted in detail. The project, which is a government project, but the situation with this project is extraordinary because it was prepared by a team of dozens of experts, by the social side. On 15 December, the Extraordinary Commission on Codification Changes adopted the proposal as presented to the High House. I will now discuss these important amendments that were adopted in the course of the session of the subcommittee on the revision of civil law, but using this honour and honour to present this project... All the more so since the subcommittee and the committee were attended by the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Reforms of Ownership Supervision created in the Ministry of State Assets, outstanding professors, excellent lawyers, it is a great honor for me to mention the most important authors of this codification, who also participated in the discussion, in this place, in the Seym of the Republic of Poland. As far as the Ministry of State Assets is concerned, he is the head of the Commission for State Assets. Reforms of Ownership Supervision, the biggest reform in 20 years, was and is Prime Minister Jacek Sasin, I had the honour to be, and I am still, the vice-president of this committee. At the Ministry level, the work was coordinated by two directors, Dr. Filip Ostrowski, present in the Chamber, and Director Izabela Wojtyczka. The most important thing here is to thank and emphasize the great role of Polish lawyers who pro bono prepared this project and participated in the work on it. I particularly want to thank and stress the role of Professor Andrzej Szumański, co-author of the Commercial Companies Code of 15 September 2000. The work on this project, but also on the work of the subcommittee and committees, took part, among others. Dr Radosław Kwaśnicki, Prof. Piotr Pinior, Prof. Mirosław Pawełczyk, Dr. Rafał Kos, mec. Jan Ginko, Prof. Dominika Wajda, Mr. Mateusz Berger, Mr. Jakub Modrzejewski, Mr. Prof. Piotr Nichporuk, mec. Radosław Trzeszcz, mec. Przemysław Silesiak. I would very much like to highlight the role of your attorney. Charles Szymanski, very active at the subcommittee and committee meetings, and Mrs Dominica Bettman. It is very important from the point of view of the nature of the project submitted to the committee that it was created in consultation with the Ministry of Justice, which is naturally responsible for such code changes. At this point, I would like to stress the personal commitment of Minister Zbigniew Ziobra, who coordinated the adoption of this project at government level with Prime Minister Jack Sasin, and the role of Mr Artur Grajewski, Director of the Ministry of Justice, Judge Piotr Perczyński, and the very important role of Mr Marek Niedużak, former Deputy Minister of Development and President of the Attorney General (The Bell) of Mr Mariusz Haladyj and Luiza Modzelewska. If I can quickly mention the most important changes in progress...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u204	But it's very short, sir, because...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u205	I will present these changes that were made during the work of the subcommittee. First of all, change the definition of groups of companies. We have clarified that only capital companies can be members of groups of companies. Secondly, we have included a very important constitutional element in the nature of the resolution on the creation of a group of companies in the very definition of companies. This was an important argument for Leviathan and the National Council of Legal Counsels. As regards the second group of amendments, it concerned the regulation of groups of companies. Most importantly, we have eliminated the possibility that a company in the financial sector under supervision of KNF would be a subsidiary of a group of companies. It was a KNF request. As regards the advisor of the supervisory board, we consolidated the rules, we eliminated the explicit condition for the advisor to have the required knowledge and qualifications. Of course, it must have, but we avoid the risk of recognising the actions of the article. 58's not important. As regards the fourth amendment, it concerned that all documents which are issued to the shareholder are issued in accordance with its request. The fifth amendment concerned the conclusion of management contracts and the transfer of the company's profits. In addition, we have harmonised the criminal rules. With regard to the entry into force of the Act, it will enter into force after six months.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u206	Thank you very much, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u207	In view of the above, the Extraordinary Commission for Codification Changes after considering the projects asks the High House to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u208	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. And again, I invite Mr. Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u209	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position to more than 60 experts in the Ministry of State Assets in cooperation with other ministries of the reform of the Commercial Companies Code. Our position is, of course, positive. I think the transparency of the preparation of this project is worth highlighting a good example of how legislation for entrepreneurs should be prepared. This is because, as co-authors of this largest reform of the Commercial Companies Code for 20 years, we used the good practices of the 1934 Commercial Code. So not only officials, not only theorists, not only representatives of doctrine have been involved from the very beginning in preparing this reform, but also entrepreneurs, because it is for them that private economic law is created. From the point of view of the Commercial Companies Code, it is very important to introduce the law of groups of companies for the first time - Article. The seven who have failed to fulfil his role shall be lifted. Poland, like other countries such as Germany, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Portugal, will have very modern trade law rules in the corporate area, in the area of management of groups of companies. We have also adopted assumptions for a fundamental reform of the functioning of the Supervisory Board. Supervisory Boards, ladies and gentlemen, within the meaning of the draft reform k.s.h. will become not only a control body, but above all a partner in the company, which will eliminate many pathologies. One of the most important elements of the reform is to clarify the information obligations of the board after events such as GetBack or many others, when hundreds of thousands of Poles lost their savings. This issue had to be regulated in a precise manner. With regard to issues relating to the purity of economic life, after the introduction of this project, we eliminate criminals legally convicted for the offence of active, passive bribery, abuse of powers or paid protection from the possibility of sitting on boards of capital companies, supervisory boards and boards. This will certainly contribute to fairer competition within the Polish business. With regard to the next group of changes, which respond significantly to the needs of stakeholders of more than 440 000. capital companies in Poland, this is of course the case for resolving the issue of the mandate and term of office. We introduce the principle of business judgment, known from other countries as business justice rule. The question of loyalty and secrecy after the end of the term of office of members of corporate bodies is also regulated in this project. Of course, however, the judgments of some courts pose a huge risk to many entrepreneurs. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, the project has been prepared in an absolutely transparent way, with a very long period of public consultation, both official and informal. Several hundred invitations were sent to participate in public consultations, and to law firms, and to all universities. This project is a collective project of dozens of lawyers. Thank you very much for your participation in this work. As far as the Parliamentary Club is concerned, Law and Justice, I will allow you, Your Marshal, to make a few amendments. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are also encouraging you from other clubs to have the issue of private economic law removed from the political dispute. This is an important regulation, a fundamental one, the first one so great in 20 years, even greater than that of December 2003, before accession to the European Union, which is written for entrepreneurs, also by entrepreneurs and should not be the subject of a political dispute. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u210	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Barbara Dolniak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! That's how you praised the Polish Load and what? Total bullshit. It requires adjustments, changes. Entrepreneurs from all sides say he needs to be suspended. And we have another legal issue: a draft for the Commercial Companies Code. It was prepared with a gross violation of the principles of legislative technique. Its concept is contrary to the practice of economic trade, which threatens the safety of such trade. This project was not only based on misconceptions, but is also in a caricatureal way, wrongly written. 75% This proposal required substantive or legislative amendments or substantive and legislative amendments. The PiS only made three amendments, and it was cosmetic, which did not change the low value of this project. Comments from opposition clubs as well as third parties, e.g. The National Council of Legal Counsels or the Confederation of Leviathan has not been taken into account. There was no answer to the questions asked, and the consultation took just forty days before the project was launched, and this summer. No analysis has been carried out, or at least no content has been presented, even though we have asked for such an analysis. The process of lawmaking cannot be an experiment. Company law must change, but not in isolation from the economy and its identified and proven needs. The amazing and inexplicable legislative fact is that, in the justification of the project, the project's project did not refer to the established practice or the rich heritage of the judicature. The opinions drawn up for this project in many respects raise its negative importance. And so on. The National Council of Legal Advisers submits that the draft should be assessed clearly negatively in the area of regulation of company groups. The negative opinion of this project was also expressed by the Supreme Bar Council or the National Chamber Council. The project was also not supported by the Confederation of Leviathan. How extremely bad this project is is, for example, from the opinion of the Supreme Court, which pointed out: It is possible to have serious concerns that the possible entry into force of the proposed rules will not properly bring together corporate law and can help create even more doubts, diversify the legal situation of the various actually existing groups of companies and thus reconcile the stability and security of legal trading. Can you imagine a worse opinion? I don't think so. Many reservations were also raised by the Office for Sejm Analysis. In the opinion of trade law experts who deal with this law both theoretically and practically, such as Prof. Tomasz Siemiątkowski, Prof. Michał Romanowski and Prof. Andrzej Kidyba, the project is not suitable for proceding or applying in practice. The flaws of the project are so fundamental that they disqualify it in its entirety. Therefore, we again apply for the rejection of this project, because the entry into force of this law will result in the same thing as the Polish Cargo Act. There was so much praise, so much positive feedback, and when the project came into force, it turned out to be a total bubble. Let us save at least in this part of Polish entrepreneurs and protect them from such a bad bill. Changes are needed because reality is changing, but let us change this reality, taking into account both business proposals, practice and case law, which has developed for many years. Otherwise, we will have another example of a legal bubble, which will have to be changed immediately. This creation of law does not serve entrepreneurship, even this entrepreneurship kills. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u212	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have indeed heard here from the rapporteur, the initiator of this undertaking, a lot of warm words about how this draft law was procedated. Indeed, I agree with the Left that we should use less political and more substantive arguments when discussing the Code of Commercial Companies. Only if this project has been so well prepared, is the question: Why is the PiS club still making amendments to this project today? I don't think one of them has anything to do with the other. I think that when we examine this draft law, we can be convinced of one thing: indeed, we need solutions that are clear, clear and clear in terms of the possibility of creating holding companies and capital groups. Unfortunately, however, this project does not solve this problem, and in our opinion, in the assessment of the Left Club, it still introduces a lot of unclear records which may later be settled by courts in some proceedings. And it doesn't simplify the creation of these holdings, it doesn't simplify the functioning of groups and subsidiaries, and it makes it even more difficult in our assessment. We were wondering why such changes were suddenly introduced in the Commercial Companies Code. And unfortunately, we have the indisputable impression that this is actually about one record, which was, in short, well-built in many different articles. This provision is more or less so that: a member of the Management Board, of the Supervisory Board, of the Audit Committee and of the Liquidator shall not prejudice the obligation to exercise care arising from the professional nature of his business, if acting in a manner loyal to the company, acting within the limits of reasonable economic risks, including on the basis of information, analyses and opinions, which should be taken into account in the circumstances in which a careful assessment is made. [[Applause]] So, in short, today we are dealing with the situation that for all these wrong decisions in all those companies in which the Treasury has shares, for those funds spent without meaning, I no longer want to talk about these different institutions, today no one will be responsible on the basis of this record, because you will always find some opinion that you had to build Ostrołęka, you will find the opinion that you had to print the ballots, you will find an opinion relating to a number of other projects on which you spent hundreds of millions of PLN, and at that moment these boards will not be responsible. And I think that's what this bill is all about. The law, of course, introduces various other provisions and, once again, does not facilitate the creation of holding companies, but introduces very vague provisions, for example on parent companies and binding orders. Until the end of this Act, it is not specified as regards the parent company which the authority may issue orders - the supervisory board, the board of directors, it is not known. As far as these binding orders are concerned, the question arises as to how they are to be issued - orally, in writing, by resolutions, so here it can cause a very big mess. Another issue, of course, is the possibility for the parent company to change the contracts of subsidiaries or those companies that are in the group. This is also a question of all the refusals to follow these instructions, the issue of supervisory boards, because here we introduce a provision that supervisory boards will be able to hire their own auditors at the expense of the company. Again, there may be a natural conflict between the board of directors and the board of directors, whether the board is acting in the interests of the company. Plus, there's a record that says there doesn't have to be 100% on the board. Members, in order to introduce a new point, we also have a voting method introduced by an absolute majority, i.e. generally those abstentions do not recognise. So this is a series of provisions that do not seem to improve the management situation of companies (the bell), but rather will lead to many conflicts. So that, unfortunately, at this stage, this is a project that cannot be supported, because it does not solve the problems that Mr Kowalski was talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u214	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u215	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Requestor! Business among entrepreneurs is very popular with such a saying expressing the expectation of public authority, that it does not disturb or that it disturbs as little as possible. It will then be possible to conduct this activity in an unfettered and efficient manner. Unfortunately, this law is somewhat contrary to this expectation expressed and repeated very often by business representatives, unfortunately contradicts and this is its biggest problem. Unfortunately, in agreement with those critical observations expressed by the previous speakers, it must be said that this is not the kind of project that would be expected. The most crushing, but also constructive, substantive criticism of this project was made by Professor Michał Romanowski, who is also very clear about the work and practice that has been prepared in the companies so far, but unfortunately also denies the myth that the applicant tried to build, as if these were the solutions that were expected. No, these solutions were not expected. Something much more ambitious was expected, in line with times and needs. Here, too, I agree with those opinions which have been expressed that, unfortunately, without taking good intentions, sincere intentions, which may have guided the creation of a project on which we are proceding, it must be said that it is a little again an attempt to make Poles happy by force. I do not know what experts and what business environments the Member has indicated here have supported the projectors, but these certainly were not experts' voices in some significant way reflecting the expectations of the environment. In conclusion, we do not yet know what autofixes have been made. Of course, we will be familiar with them immediately. On the other hand, it will be extremely difficult for us as Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition to support this project in this form. Like I said, not this business environment, entrepreneurs were expecting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u216	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It is good that we are debating the amendment of economic law. It is strange that in times of so rapidly changing economic reality, we all praise the fact that for the first time in 20 years we have been updating the Commercial Companies Code. I think we should lean on such regulations more often. If something does not demand - here my previous speaker said that changes should go further, they should touch on more issues - there is nothing to prevent this dialogue from being more lively and that the Sejm should deal with this law more often, although, above all, with a view to stabilising the rules of business in Poland and that these rules should be simple, predictable and not change unnecessary confusion. With regard to the proposed amendment, I have already spoken at previous meetings of the Sejm on the subject. We generally welcome the fact that we have changes modernising Polish law. These rules can be divided into two groups. Firstly, there are provisions to facilitate the management of the group of companies through the parent company in connection with the implementation of the group's common economic strategy. Such a change is difficult not to commend, because indeed in modern economic life it is often done not by a single entity, but by more complex capital groups. The second group of provisions are provisions ensuring the protection of creditors of subsidiaries and their shareholders, as well as members of the subsidiaries' bodies and parent companies. These changes to the rules also seem appropriate. These rules are intended to introduce more effective management of capital groups through the supervision of the parent company over subsidiaries. We are dealing with the rules that I praised - I think I can actually say so honestly - during my previous speech in this case, i.e. with the strengthening of the supervisory board. Indeed, today it is often the case that many persons are referred to the supervisory boards, and later these supervisory boards are of such an impostorous nature. The provisions strengthening supervisory boards, in particular by forcing different types of documents to be made available to their members, seem to go in the right direction. The Council will be able to examine all the documents of the company, review its assets, request the Management Board, procurators to provide all information, documents, reports or explanations on the situation of the company. We also have to do with the abuse of laws which are designed to hinder convicted persons from performing any functions, so that they are prohibited from acting on board, on supervisory boards, on audit committee, on being a procurator or liquidation by persons convicted of passive and active bribery, on payment of protection, and on abuse of the powers of a public officer. (The bell) in my opinion also deserves to be praised by the introduction of the principle of business assessment of the situation, which is intended to protect the persons remaining on the boards of companies from an unjustified accusation of injury to the companies. We know many such cases when those taking business risks were later subjected to various types of conduct or simply convicted of acting against companies, and it was a normal economic activity. It is a step towards normality and approximation of regulations to the modern realities of economic life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u218	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u219	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the government draft law amending the Act - Code of Commercial Companies and some other laws after presentation of the report of the committee. High Izbo! The work on the project submitted by the government really took a long time. This is a variation in what we have been accustomed to by the government so far. However, unfortunately, the working time did not translate into a fundamental change in the case of this draft law. Although we accepted with an open head the proposal put forward by the government in the form of a bill, at the first reading in Parliament we indicated very clearly and clearly the areas which at that stage disqualified this project. Applicants and designers have ensured that they are open to discuss and make changes on this project. Unfortunately, when meetings of the subcommittee or later are observed and reports of these meetings are read, it is hard to resist the impression that, however, these declarations of openness were completely upset and did not hide out unfortunately - I say it with regret - with the quality of the changes. These comments, mainly from economic operators, organisations that represent the economy, were very large. If all these comments had been accepted, perhaps the project would have deserved a different assessment today. Unfortunately, we are forced to issue a negative assessment, which in our case will mean a motion to reject the bill at second reading. It is difficult not to see that the changes that are included in the project serve or serve primarily to increase political control over companies of the Treasury. And a little bit of that can be compared to a situation in which someone who acquires power over one company will de facto have that power to the very bottom, that is to say, the last company that is subject to the main company. The amendment to the 19th Article deserves attention. 293, in which the following paragraph is added: 3, which de facto relieves members of the supervisory boards, the board, the audit committee and the winding-up officer. This is an absolutely unacceptable direction of change, moreover, changes that concern supervisory boards, by some are assessed positively (the bell), but I would like to point out that we will have to deal with a situation where one supervisory board will enter into the competence of the other. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u220	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u221	This does not in any way favour the legibility of supervision and does not favour the quality of supervision. As it is not possible to present a comprehensive assessment within 3 minutes, what I have already said will remain said and I am filing a motion for rejection of this bill on your hands.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u222	Thank you, sir. In the future, stick to your time, because you tend to extend your speech. [[Three minutes...]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask questions. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question is asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk, club Lewis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The Financial Supervision Authority has recognised in the light of the proposed provisions the risk that the members of the national authorities of the supervised entity will not be held liable for the execution of a binding order received from the majority shareholder and the tools for enforcing the liability of such a shareholder by the supervisory authority are limited. I would very much like to ask you to make a written reference to these comments of the Authority of the Financial Supervision Authority.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u224	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u225	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In Polish legislation it was accepted that, despite common rules of operation, single-member companies of commercial law are treated worse than others. Unfortunately, this bill fits in with this trend, which is why I have a question. Why, in the case of a group of companies, a subsidiary with capital accumulated in the hands of one shareholder may claim to make good the damage caused by the parent company's decision only if the damage leads to its insolvency and the other companies are entitled to make good the damage to a much wider extent? I ask you kindly to answer this question in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u226	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u227	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The right to property is fundamental to the functioning of society. Without respect for property rights, it is not possible to establish responsibility for the common good. These are the words of Margaret Thatcher, another close politician on the right side of the room. Why do I invoke these words? Because this project provides for the possibility of compulsory redemption of shares or shares: 25% - in closed companies, 5% - in public companies. The squeeze out institution is obviously present today in K.s.h., but concerns microscopic shareholders. Specialists refer to them as plankton or grains of sand in the desert, but 1/4 shares, or even 5% shareholders are not plankton, they are not grains of sand, this is a group that has very strong corporate powers. This construction is a denial of respect for the right to property, all of it (the bell), as Margaret Thatcher said. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u228	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u229	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the representatives of the applicants, Mr. It concerns the costs related to the possibility for supervisory boards to recruit auditors and other persons to assist the supervisory board in carrying out supervisory activities. Mr President, has this been analysed from a cost point of view for the Treasury companies? Because I have already said that in my opinion, in our view, it is aimed mainly at the supervision of the State Treasury company. The question is whether you have analysed the additional costs this may generate in this group of companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u230	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that this is a bad project has already been said by Barbara Dolniak, but I would like to refer to the provision of the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, which extends the range of offences that deprive a member of the company's board of directors. Entrepreneurs with whom I consulted on these changes clearly pointed out cases where persons convicted of fraud, misappropriation, failure to declare the company's bankruptcy in due time still, without consequences, have their functions on the boards. The amendments should therefore also be made in Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Act on the National Court Register which requires the court to remove from its office a member of the board legally convicted for a specific offence. As the practice shows, the court's actions so far are ineffective, and the convicted criminal is still a member of the board of directors. Confirmation of this fact (the bell) can be found in documents concerning the National Court Register.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u232	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u233	In the study of the Institute of Justice, Dr. Tomasz Cszulowski makes this clear. I encourage you to read this study. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u234	Thank you, Member. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill under review abounds with many negative solutions. It may seem that the authors of the project show that they do not understand the foundation of company law. Can you mismanage your own company and blame the management of another company? Not long after the planned amendment of the law has entered into force, such situations can become everyday. In addition, the Act plans to introduce the primacy of the interest of the group of companies over its own interests of the subsidiary. Do you think it's a good change? What role will the management board play in the subsidiary, which will be devoid of, or possibly completely, the influence on the running of the company? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u236	Thank you, Member. Barbara Dolniak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the committee or subcommittee work, we asked a number of questions. We didn't get any answers. So I'm going to ask them again. How is the interests of the subsidiary defined? Is the interests of the subsidiary separated from the interests of the parent company? What if the parent company has 100% participation in a subsidiary? Who will determine what the interests of the subsidiary are? Does your mother's company have a separate business? Who defines him? If a group of companies does not decide to form a group, does this mean that there is no group of companies and that the strategy of the group cannot be implemented? These and many other questions remain unanswered. Our request for an analysis of this project remains unanswered. Since you haven't introduced her so far, that means you haven't done the analysis at all. Is it so good to create projects? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u238	Thank you. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You should have asked who was in the interest of making changes to this code. Isn't it in the interest of the party nominates to make a big change? Why do you want to make changes in such an important area of commercial companies without consulting the representatives of these companies at all? You have not taken into account practically any amendments tabled by the organisations of the entities concerned by this law. Once again you put the stick in good functioning modes of the Polish economy. You're trying to mess this up. You enter, for example. the liability of the parent company for damage caused to the creditor of the subsidiary, if such damage was caused by the execution by the subsidiary of a binding order from the parent company and if the execution against the subsidiary belonging to the group of companies proves ineffective. Let's translate it into politics. So let's try to put it this way: we'll introduce the responsibility of the dominant party (the bell) for the damage caused by the coalitioner. The bill issued for damages caused by Mr. Ziobra, Mr. Kowalski and other companies will go into billions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u240	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u241	You want change? Talk about them. Don't you want to talk? Get out of politics. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u242	Mr Dariusz Stefaniuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u243	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you a question, because the opposition is still questioning this project, that there is no public consultation, my previous speaker also referred to it, and I would like to ask the applicant and the Minister for a public consultation, how they looked, how they were held, how they were wide. Were there scientific circles, law firms, or were entrepreneurs involved in the consultation on this project? Because it is known that no one is an omnibus and it is worth it with such an important project, which will concern millions of Poles, learn the opinion of the environment and include it in the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u244	Thank you. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The essence of the commercial law company is that it is liable only to the law and to the owner, but it is liable to the owner in a limited way. The owner may change the management board, he may change the supervisory board, but he may not interfere in the day-to-day management of the company because it must be a clear responsibility. If we involve a parent company in this, that someone can issue an order, then of course we are blurring all responsibility. This situation will not cure anything, but complicate everything that is possible in management. Maybe that's it. But there's a second element. Let's say there's abuse and there's wrong decisions. Who can say that the lower instance has followed the order and is not guilty of being wrongly issued or not in an appropriate manner? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And finally, the powers of the people who do it. Unfortunately, there is incompetence today.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u246	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u247	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This topic of opposition responsibility would also be interesting, perhaps someday we will consider it. But more seriously: at the subcommittee and commission meetings, we discussed a lot about the responsibility of both the board and the supervisory board. Hasn't the weight been tilted the other way? The question is very simple: Isn't the supervisory board getting too much power over the board? And the second question about daughter companies. There's a pretty quick discussion about the dependence of your daughter's company on your mother's company. I'd like an explanation, too. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u248	Thank you, sir. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u249	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there are two business models: either the Polish law will be clear and clear for entrepreneurs, or it will be illegible. And now the question is: Is the law of groups of companies needed in Poland? Do companies such as the RMF Group, the Żywiec Group, Axel Springer, even the Agora Group, not to mention, of course, the PKN Orlen Group or the PGE Group need modern private economic law in the area of groups of companies? That's right. I'll tell you more. Called by the opposition, by the Civic Platform, Mr.Prof. Michał Romanowski wrote about this in March 2008, about how archaic art is. 7 Commercial Companies Code and that we need to create groups of companies. Today, of course, he withdrew from it because his firm is earning money from so-called. the codes of capital groups and looting or looting businesses, considering that there is no need for law, only its services will suffice. Ladies and gentlemen! We want to introduce a clear law for entrepreneurs, so that they do not use (the bell) the services of lawyers for heavy money, only that the law is for entrepreneurs. And you want to say it too. That's a very bad solution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u250	Thank you, sir. Mr Wiesław Buj, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u251	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. 21
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u252	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Acts, Minister Jan Kanthak, to answer the questions of the ladies and gentlemen. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u253	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! If we look for a definition of totalizm, this definition would be reflected in the behaviour of the Civic Platform politicians in the context of working on this law. You criticize the state, you condemn it. And I witnessed... I have taken over this bill after Minister Janusz Kowalski, whom I would very much like to thank for the creation of such a professional team that developed this project. The moment I joined the legislative work on this bill, I witnessed something unusual: a 100% criticism. You came to the first meeting of the emergency committee, then to the first meeting of the subcommittee, and then you boycotted the work completely. Therefore, you have not tabled any substantive amendments to this project. It doesn't bother you to constantly criticize whether in parliamentary work or in the media. This project - I answer Mr Stefaniuk's question - has been consulted very widely. A special committee was set up in the Ministry of State Acts by the aforementioned Prime Minister, Jacek Sasin and by Minister Janusz Kowalski. At first, let us ask ourselves why this law is needed. The answer to this question is shown by a survey conducted by PwC. 62% The respondents expressed their positive views on the normative regulation of company group law. On the other hand, with regard to strengthening the powers of supervisory boards, 55% expressed a positive view. surveyed, and only 38% - Negative. The bill was already consulted by the authors mentioned, by Prof. Szumański, by Dr. Kwaśnicki and throughout the wide range of content. I also want to thank Director Dr. Filip Ostrowski. This was also attended by members of the authorities and directors of large companies, WIG20, and persons who were to represent smaller entrepreneurs, such as deputy spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises or a member of the authorities of Leviathan, including persons located in single-member companies of the State Treasury, in private companies. So that this project was consulted with a wide range of experts. The state here, of course, is saying that the bill is sloppy, that it is unnecessary. What's the point of this bill if we have case law? If we mix threads, mix legal systems and forget that in Poland, however, there is a system of established law, not a system of precedent or custom law, then maybe so. But it is worth reminding that in Poland there is a law in force. And even if it were to be accepted that there is a customary law, a precedent, who saw it to treat referendum rulings as a determinant of how groups of companies are supposed to function? These regulations, which have been prepared by the Ministry of State Assets, are therefore extremely important. Mrs Dolniak mentioned the criticism of the Supreme Court. It is worth recalling that mainly two threads were raised by the Supreme Court. One concerned the definition of groups of companies, which was modified as part of parliamentary work. The second plea concerned the exclusion of public companies. I would suggest that the Civic Platform politicians decide whether they are in favour of making these regulations even wider, even greater scope of companies include, however, narrower. This is the whole issue of parliamentary cooperation with the Civic Platform: instead of constructive dialogue and work based on arguments - it is arguments from Sasa to Las and testing everything. Like, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, You seem to have calculated how many amendments have been tabled. For this is parliamentary work and this shows the openness of the Ministry of State Assets to improve this project. We were really open to it. Let me remind you: you have not tabled a single amendment as part of your parliamentary work. There was an accusation by Mr Suchon and Mr Dariusz Wieczork concerning business justice rule. The solution that works is the calculator of the German solution. Here he tries to add, add some political interpretation to solutions that support entrepreneurs, give them tools to make, as in business, sometimes risky decisions. They must be aware that if they do not commit a crime, they will not be punished. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that I encourage you, during the debate at the Extraordinary Committee today, we will change the rhetoric a little bit and work on specifics and details. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u254	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Barbara Dolniak, as corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If you listened carefully to the discussions at committee meetings and subcommittees, you would know very well that the reality was completely different: the lack of answers to questions, the shortening of speaking time. Even invited guests were limited in time, even though we were working on a difficult project. We have pointed out the significant shortcomings of this project. No one took that into account. Few of this was taken into account by the representatives of the institutions who participated in committee or subcommittee meetings. All this shows that you are presenting reality in a completely different light. At committee meetings and subcommittees, it was different. As if that were not enough, you have joined the amendments - we are talking about the Code of Commercial Companies, please - a lot of amendments concerning other laws (the bell), e.g. Act on National Property Resources, about the National Centre for Research and Development, about the creation of a Polish development agency, about departments of government administration. This is working on a code? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u256	Madame, please do not abuse the correction procedure. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Jan Kanthak: Ad vocem.]] You're welcome, Minister. We're just not gonna be like this forever.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u257	I'm done. As far as parliamentary work is concerned, your behaviour will be the best summary. You boycotted the Extraordinary Commission meeting when Minister Kowalski and other members reminded that Prof. Romanowski, who is now so zealously criticizing this project with you, was himself a member of the Owner's Supervision Committee. [[Applause]] When we showed the evidence, it triggered an allergic reaction and closed your mouth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[This project is being boycotted by everyone, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u258	Thank you very much. The committee rapporteur, Mr Janusz Kowalski, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u259	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Marshal! Minister! Thank you very much for such a professional summary from Minister Jan Kanthak. Thank you very much for completing this reform. I thank Deputy Minister Maciej Małecki, who coordinated these issues after me. I will say this, in Christian I will turn the other cheek, ladies and gentlemen, and I will not answer these really false, often at the border of the insect, arguments. This isn't about Law and Justice, Platform, PSL or Left. It's 440,000. Polish companies, capital companies. It is a very good private economic law that has been waiting for many, many years. [[That's what you said about the Polish Lad.]] Dear Marshal! Marshal Dolnyak, thank you. Today in this room, you've lowered your emotional level. Indeed, this level of emotion at committee meetings and subcommittees was very high. Thank you for that. I would also like to thank Mr Dariusz Wieczork. I am convinced that Mr Dariusz Wieczorek would like to vote in favour of this project, but for political reasons he cannot. His colleague, Counselor Szejna, really supported us during the subcommittee meeting and during the committee's work. I'll answer specific questions. Mr Suchon's question was very substantive. It concerned the service budget for the advisor of supervisory boards. This is, of course, a separate issue for each supervisory board. It's not about whether it's 50,000 or 100,000. Or 200,000. The point is that the supervisory board finally has a real supervisory instrument for the management board, instead of a situation in which the management board, in order to check the IT service issue or the issue of some irregularities, rents a particular company to the supervisory board. This is a transparent process, a transparent idea, a solution known in other countries, although maybe not in corporate law alone. This is certainly a real governance instrument, which in my opinion and in my opinion of the originators will strengthen the position of the supervisory board. Business justice rule. Minister Jan Kanthak explained to a distinguished colleague, Mr Dariusz Wieczork, that it is a German model also known in other countries. For 440 grand. This is a very important principle for businesses, capital companies, boards and supervisory boards. It interrupts many unnecessary processes that are currently taking place in Poland. Entrepreneurs will be able to focus on doing business. I would like to make it clear that after this discussion - this is my assessment - I have the overwhelming impression that the only person from the opposition who has read, for which I thank you very much, the draft law, which concerns the largest reform of the Commercial Companies Code for 20 years, is Mr Krzysztof Bosak. Thank you very much for Mr Bosak and the Confederation's words to Mr Krzysztof Bosak. That is what it is to work on private economic law that we answer specific questions. Deputy Minister Jan Kanthak pointed out that the Platform had not reported a single amendment, not even the smallest, not even a comma. Minister Romanowski, I'm sorry, Professor Romanowski has not tabled a single amendment during this official consultation. We even sent two letters: to the cathedral at the University of Warsaw and to the law firm. Zero. It's easy to criticize, but it's worth making proposals. I think Mr Łącki has the wrong room. It really wasn't a political issue. Political emotions regarding the treatment of companies are unnecessary. I'm just gonna say one thing. I encourage Mr Łącki to read about the French doctrine of Rosenblum. He will be aware of how this mechanism works to safeguard the interests of the subsidiary. As for Mr Dyduch, with great sympathy... I do not hide that, being a member of the supervisory board of KGHM, one of the largest Polish companies, I came to the conclusion and thought that this reform was needed just so that companies such as Polska Miedź, KGHM, Orlen Group, Grupa Żywiec - like all Polish companies that function as companies, could carry out economic expansion, implementing their own common strategy within the group of companies. These holding laws are so necessary because, as I said, 440 thousand. The companies are waiting for this. And thank you once again to Marshal Dolniak, and Mr Wieczork, and the opposition, and the Polish People's Party for lowering the emotional level, especially Mr Krzysztof Bosak, for reading this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a private economic law, let's not make it a policy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u260	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. [[Voice from the courtroom: And I ask for a corrigendum, Marshal.]] In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, applications for rejection and amendments were submitted to the bill submitted, pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to submit a report. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the parliamentary draft resolution in connection with the 100th anniversary of the birth of Tadeusz Gaycy, print No 1995. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture (Print No 1913). I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Richard Bartosik, to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u261	Dear Marshal! High Seym! The draft law on amending the Law on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture contains a number of amendments to the existing legislation, which, on the one hand, aim to improve the functioning of this agency, on the other hand, to mitigate the conditions for granting aid in the repayment of the Agency's claims. The draft law proposes the possibility of redemption of claims under the Fund for Restructuring and Extension of Agriculture at the request of the person who was party to the credit agreement granted from that Fund or its successor. It is a person who has a fixed right to a pension for incapacity to work under social insurance rules or a pension for incapacity to work and has no property other than that in which he resides. The draft law also proposes the possibility to waive claims if the sole claim is interest claim at the request of the person who was a party to the credit agreement granted by the Fund or its successor. In particular, farmers holding agricultural holdings at the beginning of the 1990s are debtors under the Fund. This means that these claims are currently being settled by people of retirement age and means the recovery or enforcement of the Agency's pension claims from farmers' agricultural social security. It should also be stressed that the principal debt amounts to around 1/4 of the total fund debt. The remainder of the debt is interest debt and debt related to the costs of redress by the Agency. At the same time, the growing interest debt is higher each year than the interest paid. The level of interest debt supported by repayment does not reach up to 50% increasing debt under the above mentioned title. The proposal also proposes to regulate the remission of claims from the Sapard pre-accession programme. Currently, claims under Sapard are recorded in the Agency's accounts and are payable exclusively on the national budget. 33 debt recovery cases remain open in the accounts of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. The draft Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture also provides for provisions to be introduced to allow interest to be withheld during the duration of an epidemic or epidemic on the Agency's claims which have been deferred or broken down into instalments, as is the case with the Common Agricultural Policy measures. In view of the fact that the Managing Authority of the RDP is supervised by the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, it is proposed that only the Minister should supervise the Agency under the Act, while the Minister of Finance, as with other agencies, will supervise the Agency on the basis of public finance rules or on the basis of rules on the mobilisation of funds from the budget of the European Union. The proposed project also provides for the possibility for the agency to set up a company to carry out the tasks of ensuring the development of ICT systems and solutions to carry out the tasks of the agency, in particular. by the construction, development of ICT systems or solutions. At the same time, in order to improve cooperation between public institutions and organisations and to ensure the efficient operation of farmers and other bodies for which public tasks are carried out in the field of government departments: agriculture, rural development, agricultural markets or fisheries, the company will also be able to carry out such tasks (the bell) for entities other than the agency. High Izbo! I request the adoption of a law proposed by the government to amend the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u262	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Maciej Górski to the High House. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u263	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture from print No. 1913. The draft law has 10 articles, the first of which contains 13 amendments to the Act of 9 May 2008 on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, art. 2-9 are transitional provisions and Article. 10 sets the date for the entry into force of the proposed law. The first two amendments are proposed in Article. 1, which Mr Bartosik mentioned, concerns photos of the responsibility of the Minister of Finance to supervise the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture as such extraordinarily. The third amendment shall extend the catalogue of posts which may be entrusted by appointment to the President's advisers. And here the Minister did not mention this, I think, that it is at the agency's explicit request, because the advisor is often appointed, employed for a specific task, there is no point in establishing employment contracts with him, the appointment seems to be a much faster and easier form and in case of conclusion, and in case of termination. The fourth amendment concerns Article. 10a of the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture of 2008 concerns the harmonisation of the application of the provisions of the c.a., the clarification of the position of the body and the parties following the provisions on direct support to farmers, and the extension of them to national aid rules. It is also important to change the fifth, because it allows contracts to be concluded without recruiting trainees who have taken an internship in a restructuring agency, if these are replacement contracts or not less than 6 months, and this is also due to the changing labour market. And here I can add that, as a former agency employee, I met with such situations that people came from recruitments and it made it difficult for the agency to operate on a day-to-day basis, because getting an intern who already knows the specifics of work, has powers, has passed exams, has proper implementation in a given process that is added value, it is about six months calmly. The sixth amendment consists in the addition to Article. 21 Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture for reporting and accounting purposes of the accounts of the Agency's fund, which reflects the value of the agency's assets, and of the reserve fund on which the agency's net profit and/or net loss would be recorded. And this is also at the request of the Minister of Finance. The seventh change is the most emotional here, as mentioned by the Minister, it will allow the company's appointment by the agency to IT tasks to be followed by other executive agencies. This company will be 100% The agency will work, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, on the equipment entrusted under the contract by the agency, will also consist of these employees. The establishment of this company will ensure the retention of highly qualified employees to modernise these systems, to create and operate the applications necessary for the functioning of the modern agency. Moreover, the company will be able to carry out the various tasks entrusted by the competent minister under the contract and will then be provided with funding for that ministry. So I think here institutions such as KRUS, KOWR or agricultural advisory centres will use the services of this company over time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Time's up, I'm not done. The Law and Justice Club will support and vote in favour of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u264	Thank you, sir. Mrs Anna Wojciechowska, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club a bill amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, hereinafter referred to as the Agency Act. The bill itself is very large. I actually counted it. Okay. 10, 11 points where there are changes. In some articles, there are even more articles, so that it is very extensive. Some of the proposed changes are quite important, but some are quite controversial. I'm gonna skip point one anyway, 'cause I'm gonna skip point one. Point 1 (3) is the extension of the catalogue of posts in the structure of the Agency and this Act extends this catalogue to the post of advisor to the President of the Agency. Until now, there are posts in this catalogue such as the president of the agency, the deputy, the management of the organizational cell, etc., the entire staff of people who are already employed without recruitment. The next change, what is it, is the amending regulations... I'm not going to comment extensively on all of you because we don't have enough time for this. It takes 42 pages of this bill to explain itself. There are also proposals, for example. With regard to the agency's debts, some historical ones, from very old times, where there are problems with finding debtors, some of them are already at retirement age and the payment of those debts is indeed beyond their means. Part of the articles concerns the extension of the catalogue of indications on which the Agency's claims may be remitted. Some of them are... Art. Point 12 adds that, in the case of an amount unduly or unduly collected from public funds, a decision granting aid or payment in exceptional circumstances is not necessary in advance. Some propose that aid granted to an undertaking active in primary agricultural production should be considered de minimis aid in agriculture. Well, part of it is... A change is proposed to delete the rules whereby the redemption of the agency's claims exceeds 40 000. zł, does not require the approval of the Minister responsible for public finances. There is also a provision which proposes that the obligation to carry out recruitment be excluded under the rules laid down in that law. In the case of fixed-term employment, it is the replacement of a worker who has justified absences. There's art, too. 1 point 7, which provides for the possibility for the agency to set up a special purpose IT company with limited liability from a separate IT department, where approximately 109 people work. The target employment in this company is planned for about 300 people. The supervisory authority is the minister responsible, i.e. for rural development, because it is converted into point 1 of the proposed amendments. 100 percent of the company's property would be the agency. The programmers' salary would be 11,000. PLN to 17,000. zł - such are the amounts and wages on the market. The Minister for Rural Development shall grant a special-purpose subsidy to the agency to cover the contribution of money to the company. The surplus of the financial resources fixed at the end of the year will be paid to the State budget. The financing model of the company in the early years of its activities is to be mostly in the form of grants from the state budget. It is also foreseen that the Minister responsible for agriculture, rural development, agricultural markets or fisheries may entrust the company with the task of carrying out the company's tasks in favour of entities subordinate to or supervised by the Minister. Of course, orders in free-hand mode excluding the Public Procurement Law, i.e. work (the bell) given. It is proposed that the Minister may also grant the company an individual contribution for the current activity. The company would be maintained, among others. With donations and the appointment of the board of directors and the board of directors...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u266	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u267	I'm almost done, Marshal. The Company will be able to obtain data from data collections, including personal data collection, conducted by public authorities and public organisational units free of charge. The Civic Coalition Club does not accept this comprehensive bill with such little detail and requests that this bill be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]] [[Voice in the O.R.: Rejection?]] [[The voice from the hall: On the committee differently, and here you are different.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u268	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Ivanik on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u269	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Honestly, Minister, it's been 100 days since the new Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, was appointed to be involved in agriculture. Honestly, I thought these 100 days would be a signpost. The Minister will show you what he wants to do. E.g. The fact that ARiMR pays compensation for droughts too late, that there are unrealistic estimates of losses, that it will deal with the fight against ASF, and not just throwing blame on hunters, that it will deal with the growing bird flu or for example. that he will deal with the fact that in Lublin Voivodeship there are Sadists who have been deceived by companies, and today nobody really wants to reach out to them, or for example, that large food corporations use their position on the market and often impose a price below the cost of manufacturing, production, e.g. An apple like that. But today we are dealing with a change which, in my view, is most important in this law, and over which the Minister has so slightly slipped through, i.e. the establishment of a company. The Minister does not deal with helping farmers, fighting disasters, supporting the Polish village, but in fact creates another partner for his fellows, friends of Law and Justice. As you read into this justification, which you have said so widely, there you can actually see such a model, methodical approach to how to enslave yourself to the State's assets, in this case, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. First of all, it has to be said that something doesn't work in the whole system. And the IT system doesn't work. This is repeatedly mentioned, changed by many cases. This IT system actually doesn't work very well in this agency, people make too little money, there are fights between these people, and so on. In a normal company, the boss would diagnose it, see what's going on, try to implement something, monitor it, and fix it. Because in the State of Law and Justice, something else is being done: a company is formed that will draw 109 people out of this agency. They like touching a magic wand will fix everything and everything will function normally, there will be no more problems with farmers' service as far as the whole IT system is concerned. What's all this really about? The company is supervisory boards, the company is the head office, and as bosses are gadgets, offices, cars, additional allowances. This explanatory memorandum often raises the issue of the remuneration of employees who work in this IT department. I have this weird feeling, bound up with the fact that it's really about a couple of buddies who want to get into the company. They're all filled, so another company with a good salary is created. If you say that there is a dissonance in this company in terms of the earnings of the IT department and the agency's employees, even these wages, as is the case. in KOWR, which you filled from bottom up only with your friends from Law and Justice. And this point was also quoted: today the president will be able to cast, invoke, that is what it is called, his advisors. What's this for, ladies and gentlemen? Not to advise how to support and help a Polish farmer, but to keep those who fell out of the ministry for a while. In all this bill, the only issue worth leaning on is really the issue of debt. We should lean on it and talk about it. I'm gonna go back to this company. One aspect that I can think of is that the state is very often using something like the company's secret, the trade secret. You've said that many times. If the company comes, like us Members, we will ask you a question, you will say: but this is a trade secret (the bell), the company's secret. To conclude, Marshal, I just wanted to say that the Left Club is assessing this project negatively. Of course, we can continue to work on it, but in this form it is unacceptable, unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u270	Thank you very much. At least there's no motion for rejection at first reading. Mr Stefan Krajewski on behalf of the Coalition Poland Club. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u271	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives in relation to the bill amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, print no. 1913. High Izbo! In 2016, when President Daniel Obajtek talked about many irregularities in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, when he said what had to be fixed, what had to be changed, a great repair began. After all, we remember President Obejtek and Minister of Agriculture Krzysztof Jurgiel opening the IT Department in Lublin, which was supposed to be the solution to all these pains, repairing what didn't work. Today it turns out it didn't work out. You just have to set up a partnership because this department has failed to fulfil its role. It's known that a good IT guy wants to work in a restructuring agency, he's got to make a lot of money. If you consider the net of wages... Employees who work there in many positions see the differences, so today you want to hide all of this to pay the company and then do all kinds of settlements. This is not good from the point of view of this change, because today farmers are interested in ensuring that programmes are implemented efficiently so that money is spent. This is what Minister Ardanowski pointed out in 2019, who said that everything in the agency is beginning to fall apart. If good changes are not made, such as will really reform this institution, it will unfortunately be a problem with spending money, accounting, work. Second problem: employees. From the beginning, you've been eager to fire all the professionals, employees who've worked there for years. Today it turns out there's no one to replace them. It's a good thing an intern can come to the institution, study, see what it looks like. The important thing is that you can hire a good intern for these six months -- that's because he wants to work and see and then make sure he gets an indeterminate job. Today, however, this is a mix-up with confusion, everything is being thrown into a few amendments, because farmers are obviously waiting for the remission of claims resulting from the historic accession programme - SAPARD, waiting for the redemption of claims from the Fund for Restructuring and Extension of Agriculture, to sort it out, because it is a problem for farmers, and for the agency itself, which is trying to solve historical issues, although these are often unsolvable. That's what needs to be changed. On the other hand, many of the issues that I have already mentioned had to be considered sooner rather than moving towards a merger between the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency. Some of the employees moved to KOWR, some to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Their employment contracts have been changed from permanent contracts to fixed-term contracts, as the Supreme Audit Chamber pointed out in the report as an irregularity, so it needs to be fixed today. We have to flatten the net of wages, wages, because the chief specialist can earn from PLN 3900 to PLN 8900, which is unfair, because people who earn twice as much work at the same jobs. This, of course, needs to be fixed and changed. Here's another thing. I think it would be worth giving agency staff the opportunity to work overtime, but paid, rather than scheduled to be received by the end of the quarter. People want to make more money, and sometimes they have the opportunity, and that in turn would speed up the handling of applications and the making of decisions. Of course, this requires work, we will be making amendments. I hope that, in the end, a project will be developed that can be supported, because it is what I said, on the one hand, farmers, on the other hand workers, the agency. This must be done wisely and prudently. We will watch and, of course, propose our amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u272	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Mirosław Suchoń on behalf of the Polska 2050 wheel. [[The voice from the hall: Come on, give it up for your friend. No?]] [[Voice from the hall: Dude, what are you doing?]] [[Voice from the room: A little bit.]] Mr President, I draw your attention. Please behave properly. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u273	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 vis-à-vis the government bill amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! This project is complex and, therefore, there will probably be time for discussion at committee meetings, while I would like to mention a few aspects that have been included in this project. First, amendment 1 in Article. 1 de facto makes the supervision of the financial aspects, the activity, the financial economy, which has so far been the Minister of Finance in the field of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, taken over by the Minister responsible for Rural Affairs, the Minister for Agriculture. I must say that this is a real picture of what work is actually being done today at the Ministry of Agriculture. It's nothing more than taking control of a very lucrative cake. It seems that the last, I would say, disputes in the government between the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Finance ended in this regard with the victory of the Minister of Agriculture. It is a pity that the Minister of Agriculture did not devote this time to rural work, but only devoted it to work on getting a bigger piece of cake to split. The second point that I would like to mention concerns changes in the possibility of temporary employment of persons who have been in an agency. We estimate that these are changes in the right direction, although they are probably partly linked to the possibility of hiring political nominates, but today it is clear that the agency's hands are lacking and that there is a need for facilitation in this respect. The third issue relates to amendment 13 concerning the extension of the grounds for the waiver of the Agency's claims. We believe that this is heading in the right direction and deserves support. On the other hand, the article. 1 point 7 concerns the possibility for the agency to appoint a limited liability company and here, as in the lens, you can see all the problems and pathologies of the authority which today governs this authority. Firstly, the agency is another company to take over tasks that it cannot carry out, as explained by the justification. This is probably due to inadequate management. Secondly, the issue of wages. Law and Justice have been hitting people who are competent for six years, just like computer scientists. Today you admit to this project that you have led to a situation (the bell) when within a state institution you cannot appreciate competence. It comes directly from this project. We think it's going the wrong way.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u274	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u275	We need to fix what's in the agency. We're gonna watch this project change. At this stage, we generally take a negative view of it, but we will see how it will be modernised in committee work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u276	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Urbaniak, on behalf of the Confederate Circle. [[I always have three minutes, the others have five minutes.]] Well, you're either from the club or from the circle, sir. I'm sorry. Democracy. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u277	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the impression that the Minister has presented this bill to us in a very superficial way, especially the objectives that he wants to achieve. I have serious doubts about how we would move these forces, resources from Arimr to a separate, dedicated IT company, because what works in corporations, in capital groups, where daughter companies are created for such tasks, does not always have to work in government institutions. How will you have the cost of service in relation to efficiency? What guarantees do we have that the subsidiary will fulfil the tasks relating to continuity of service delivery e.g. for farmers who will use the ARiMR information systems? What will the service, complaint service look like, and how will this affect the quality of service of farmers? And will it be on the side of the company, or will it be on the side of the ARiMR directly? What will the employment criteria look like compared to today? These new developers, analysts, project managers, directors, board members - these are new posts. If they are treated marketly, it will greatly increase costs. Although I understand and fully accept the fact that they should be treated in the market now that they are specialists. To what extent will these external suppliers be replaced by their own products? What about the rights to systems already in use today? What about pricing services? Wouldn't that also be a recapitalisation of this particular company by e.g. overestimating analytical and executive valuations? Because it's going to involve mismanagement. These are the risks you will have to face and you will take responsibility for it. And, by the way, let me draw your attention to the fact that today we are dealing with a new subsidiary, and there are other and more important problems in agriculture, like the ASF, like the fact that those who are breeding the flock today are in the zones and have problems selling for buying, as today our poultry farmers are being attacked in the media field for example. Our meat producers have recently been attacked at a broadcasting station in America. It was claimed that they abused these animals. The document was full of manipulations, misconceptions or materials just not from Poland. It's about manipulative materials that represent our breeders in black light. That's not what we're authorized to do. I also call on the government to carry out an in-depth control of the sources of funding for these pseudo-ecological organizations and activists, because it is for them to sabotage and it is not known who they are really working on. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u278	Thank you very much, sir. And thank you for fitting your speech in the time allocated to the parliamentary circle. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. The first question will be asked by Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u279	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! By suggesting these statements, especially the Member of the Polish People's Party, as well as Mr Suchon, I would like to ask the Minister about the scale of direct payments. How many advances have been paid? Are payments paid? How many advances were paid under the Civil Platform and the Polish People's Party? The point is that we can compare, because there was even a criticism of President Obejtek here. Also tell me, Minister, is that true, what was going on in the media? The point is that when Law and Justice took responsibility for Poland, on the desk of the Minister of Agriculture was the letter of the President of the ARiMR, I will not mention the name that the system does not work at all (the bell) and there is no system prepared. Is it true that at the time the Agency was not prepared to pay the payments at all? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u280	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. I'm asking you kindly to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Art. Point 1 (7) of the draft law provides for the possibility for the agency to set up a limited liability company to provide IT services to ARIMR. In the explanatory memorandum, we can read that the PiS state is not able to provide workers with adequate wages, that fast-growing wages make ARiMR no longer an attractive employer. Yes, the justification in this section clearly indicates where we are right now. You've led me to believe that you're creating a company to pay employees better. This project is not only an image of discrimination against workers through wage differentiation, but, above all, it is a picture of the disaster of the well-being state under the leadership of the Law and Justice as a country equally caring for all citizens. For the last 7 years it was supposed to be better, rich, and Poles were supposed to return to Poland massly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister! Minister! Then I have a question: How many Poles have returned and how many have left Poland during these years of your reign? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u282	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The project concerns the introduction of solutions to facilitate the replacement of the worker during his justified absence from work, shortening the process of completing staff shortages in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. I am interested in the year 2022, especially if you are planning any changes in your management positions. If so, what is it? And, of course, the most important thing: When will the agency's private employees finally get a raise? Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u284	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about very important things that come down to very prosaic things, often to money. I have a question about an application that was supposed to help farmers estimate drought. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, last year in West Pomeranian Voivodeship, drought occurred, while the application prevented the generation of protocols. The President probably knows that, and many times in many districts of our province attention has been paid to it. Besides, even the IUNG employees sent to see if this drought was really, they found it. On the other hand, this wonderful application, which was prepared by excellent IT specialists, stated that droughts in Poland, including in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, were not present. I, on behalf of these Western Pomeranian farmers, ask the Minister to lean on their problem, because four years - three years of drought, year of heavy rains (the bell) - this is a really huge problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u286	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u287	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Three questions. Firstly, this project and the justification prove that IT employees in the agency are systematically remunerated below their qualifications. In my view, this is a sign of discrimination. Has the Ministry taken any action to change this sick situation when people are rewarded below their qualifications? Secondly, in the past, in two thousand... I no longer remember which, but about 10 years ago, the regional traffic centers converted the system prepared by ITS into a system prepared by PWPW, a state label. This involved a ten-fold increase. Ten times how many WORDs today pay for the electronics system. Do you guarantee that it won't be exactly the same in this case? And the third question. Why hasn't the company Critical Applications been used, which was founded by the Ministry of Finance (Dzinek) and has the appropriate facilities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u288	Thank you, sir. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u289	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft of this law is very controversial, it is very extensive at all, that has already been said before. There is a point where we talk about older people who actually have trouble paying their debts from many, many years ago. Why are they only doing this now? Now we're back in the company. This is another idea to create jobs for your friends, as a reward, etc. There will be a board of supervisors, a board of directors, people who will be rewarded again. It also concerns the company's access to personal data collections by public authorities and public organisational units. And that's another problem. Maybe we can come up with another one of our Polish Pegasus, if this is an IT company? Currently there is a central government agency with a vibrant IT centre, which carries out large projects, keeps registers (Dawn) and already has staff. How many advisors are employed at the agency today? What donations are included in income? Ladies and gentlemen, this is another con company that is planned to create.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u290	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u291	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A significant part of the project is devoted to the possibilities and rules for the Agency to create ICT companies funded by the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. The government explicitly acknowledges that the establishment of IT companies by the Agency is intended to circumvent the rules governing the remuneration of the Agency. Prime Minister, I know that thanks to the Polish Load, two or even three tax systems are to be applied in our country and everyone will probably be able to choose how to mix them between themselves. On the other hand, is it appropriate for the same government to lay down some provisions by one law, as in this law, and in the other, to indicate what should be done to circumvent them? Maybe IT companies will have entire executives of the agency and in this way they will be able to set their remuneration at a completely different level than today. There are also supervisory boards in these IT companies, which we already know how they will be filled. I ask when there will be increases (the bell) for the serial employees of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. I'm gonna ask you to answer in writing on this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u292	Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A month ago, I asked you a question about ASF, payouts, loans. You answered me that the loans are granted smoothly, 2559 farmers will receive PLN 130 million in a very urgent manner. And today, these farmers come to my office and ask me, Mr. President, how does this work? Today we receive further receipts for the extension of payments until 31 March of this year. I would like to say one thing to the Minister that in France farmers have the same financial problems as Polish farmers. The French Minister urgently called the trade unions - they granted these farmers €270 million and a payout deadline of 2 weeks. I would like the Polish state to act this way, and so that the agency we are talking about will pay the farmers from the New Town (Dzwonek), Iławy, Działdowa, Żuromina compensation for ASF. And I would just like the Minister to give me an answer in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u294	Thank you very much. Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition. Politely, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What to do when there is no room in agencies and companies for their own? To eliminate competitions for positions and replace them with a proudly sounding calling - that is exactly what this law is aiming at. In the draft law, you propose changes to the rules of employment in the Agency. You propose to abandon open and transparent recruitments and to a greater extent than the Civil Service Act and the Local Staff Act provide. This, of course, creates a dangerous precedent. Reading the project, I get the feeling that some people dream of mass cleansing and throwing themselves out on the street every day for years and well-deserved employees and replacing them with party activists. Haven't you had enough? Or maybe Mr. Dworczyk's mailbox has already had a call for these posts? And one more question. Why would you want to set up another IT company? After all, you've created a so-called one before. I.T. Department. Or maybe a friend of a friend wants to start an IT company and want to work with a newly established company? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u296	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It raises our concerns not just about the fact that IT activities are separated from the agency, but about the fact that this confirms that the agency's wages are at a very low level. The basic staff of the agencies' county offices, a large proportion of them, has a minimum wage. Question: "When will this change, and what wage increases are expected for workers this year?" Secondly, I would like to ask you, using the presence of the Minister, at what stage is the Polish Government's request in the European Commission regarding the possibility of subsidising fertilisers. Tomorrow, farmers will go all over Poland with their tractors and protest against costs and costs of operation, among others. in our voivodship in Skalmierzyce (Dzwonek), also on the national road No. 25. Therefore, this is very important. It is the answer to the question whether there will be government assistance in the payment, among others. to fertilizer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u298	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. Politely, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u299	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Proceded law establishing, among others, extending the office directory to advise the President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture is nothing more than another job jump. Is there someone in power who needs work urgently? Instead of creating jobs for someone, perhaps the Ministry will look at the inequality of paying employees in the agency. Employees say clearly that knowledge and skills are not important, but that whoever has political agreements will advance and earn well. That's the kind of signal I heard in the Parliamentary Office. Personally, people came and told me what the situation was like. This should be done by the Ministry (the bell) and not by creating new profitable jobs for its own. Where was this work, humility and moderation that the Prime Minister Szydło spoke of? I'm afraid... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u300	Thank you, Member. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. But I don't think he's here. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Ryszard Bartosik, will answer the questions raised by the Members. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u301	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There's been a lot of questions. Many questions contained content which I will simply not answer, because you already know everything before the bill is passed, how it will work. It's a very long list of charges. I'm just gonna go over some questions. I would like to say that the phrase here was: Mr. and Mrs. PiS. I would like to say that our country is the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] It would be good for you to know the name and country in which you function, in which you have been elected as a representative of the nation. I would ask that this be addressed in an appropriate way, because such wording should simply not fall from this pulpit. Ladies and gentlemen! This law is primarily intended to serve farmers, to improve the service of farmers. We know that it is up to us to implement the new financial perspective of the European Union, to implement the strategic plan, and that is why we need highly specialised IT activities, highly qualified professionals. Therefore, there is a need to establish a company that will be supervised by the Minister of Agriculture. This company will also be able to operate other institutions operating in agriculture, and will be able to provide highly specialised services at a higher level to, above all, agencies for the construction, expansion and modernisation of existing information systems. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us take a visual look at how many new, additional tasks, thanks to the support of the Government of Law and Justice for farmers, must be carried out by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. To this will be the ones I was talking about - a new financial perspective, a strategic plan and other actions. We therefore need this company. Ladies and gentlemen! I can't answer all the questions. All I'm saying is that after we took over, we found the agency in a miserable state. [[That's not true.]] That's it, sir. [[You lied and lied.]] Someone was asking if the advances had been paid before. Of course, they weren't paid. [[Ex-boyfriends, ex-boyfriends.]] It was our governments that started paying advance payments, and in this amount the agency has recently implemented this and these payments are being made very efficiently. At the moment 11 billion PLN has already been paid for various payments. It is mainly about direct payments. 3/4 of the funds are already paid. I'm gonna talk about the employee raises. They will take place in February and will include January. I would like to say that all remuneration issues are closely linked to the state budget. The budget has just been adopted and signed. Therefore, salaries and increases will be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen! The redemptions referred to are an important element of this law. Someone asked why not before. I could ask you that question. This could be realized much, much earlier, already under the governments of the SLD, the Polish People's Party and the Civic Platform. We're finally gonna get on with this and sort things out. [[The bell, the applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to say that the company will serve better service to farmers, the creation of new programmes and new IT solutions. I therefore ask for further work on the law proposed by the Government and its adoption. We will continue to work on this bill in the agriculture committee. We are open to any comments, amendments or proposals from the High House, your Members. Mrs. Marshal! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u302	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. [[Voice from the room: Platform, shame.]] Yes, the request was submitted by the Platform. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. Ladies and gentlemen! As legislators are still working on amendments, and we need this to move to the next item on the agenda, I am managing a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 57 hours 16 min 15]] I'm reopening the session. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the urgent draft government law amending the Law on the system of compensation for energy-intensive sectors and subsectors, print No 1997. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection!]] Objection. About what? [[I suggest five minutes for the wheels as well.]] Four minutes. [[With tolerance.]] I always have tolerance. Therefore, we agreed that for wheels - 4 minutes. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets on the urgent draft law amending the Law on compensation schemes for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors (prints Nos 1990 and 1997). I kindly ask Mr Matusiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u303	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets on the urgent draft law amending the Law on the system of compensation for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors, print No 1990. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 73. On 7 February 2022, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets for first reading. The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 8 February 2022, brings forward: The High Sejm will approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u304	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and four minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski. Politely, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the draft law amending the Law on the system of compensation for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors, print No 1990. The Committee on Energy, Climate and State Activities conducted today's first reading of the project and recommends its adoption. The situation concerns 200 companies in Poland in accordance with the guidelines of the European Commission which are entitled to state aid. The rise in energy prices, in particular electricity, creates a difficult financial situation for economic operators, especially energy-intensive ones. Their situation is becoming increasingly difficult due to very high prices of greenhouse gas emission rights. At the same time, it seems that the so-called notification is very urgent. new guidelines for the European Commission. The new rules in these new guidelines require a law. That's why it's urgent to investigate today's bill. If we introduce these changes and notify them, it will actually help to mobilise additional funds. The point is that this act after notification will trigger an additional PLN 35 billion in Poland for compensation for energy-intensive entrepreneurs. Not for free, though. The European Commission's guidelines come down to this type of requirement to 50% These measures were aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and this was confirmed by a certificate. This can also be a production of renewable energy and a reduction in energy consumption. However, this additional law allows for the application of this aid, which actually prevents the bankruptcy and liquidation of many of these companies. That is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the adoption of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u306	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sławomir Neumann on behalf of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At first, I'd like to defend the Sejm. Just because your Marshal Witek and most of the Seym treat the Sejm with a lot of lightness doesn't mean that we all have to accept it. Because you're offering us to process this project. 24 hours, actually. A project that was influenced as an urgent, government project, that is to say, into a fast path. But 24 hours above the project, which is 45 billion in weight, because so much money is going to be available for help over the next few years, that's a little small. I can't understand why there's so little time. And what was the work schedule like? In July 2019 this law was passed, and later, as the Member said, the European Commission adopted new guidelines. It was September 2020. These guidelines were finally published in December. Last year's government had time to prepare this project. He was working on it in September. r. has been prenoticed in the European Commission, and only now suddenly do we get to the Sejm for one day's work this project. These are not good rules of legislation, ladies and gentlemen, and I think you should draw some conclusions from this bubble, which you call Polish Ład, because it shows a lot of shortcomings. Yesterday, the finance minister got kicked out of the government for the way you guys handled it. And you're still doing the same thing, and it's a shame, because it's important. Let's get back to this bill. When the mother's law, or basic law, was adopted in 2019, the price of allowances was EUR 24 per certificate. Today it's over 90 euros, almost 100 euros, and it can probably still grow. Such high energy prices have a very strong impact on the energy-intensive industry. But not only on it, because today, after these huge increases in energy prices proposed by energy companies, it can be said that the industries that are at risk are actually almost all companies in Poland. 'Cause it's not just about the steelworks, it's about a regular bakery or some other small company. These are the effects of these 6 years of negligence and 6 years of misdecisions that you have made. These are also the consequences of the costs incurred by energy companies not related to certificates, and so absurd as financing various kinds of foundations, including the National Foundation. I don't want to be upset about the construction and demolition costs of Ostrołęka, then Turov or any other mess that we have in the energy system and that we hear about every now and then. These are also the costs that companies bear, and they also fall into the price of energy, e.g. recently noticed lying propaganda on billboards, which says that 60% of energy costs are costs related to the European Union's climate policy, and we all know that this is absolutely wrong, because certification fees are about 23-24% of the cost of this energy. The rest are costs and various types of burdens on companies, which generate among others. Such a stupid, lying, untrue campaign. Taking advantage of the fact that today we are talking about the price of energy, about the costs, I would like to announce from this speaker that I will address a letter to the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection in connection with the misleading of customers by energy companies, in connection with possible fraud related to the cost of carrying unjustified costs and the inclusion of these costs from the monopoly position in which companies are presently in relation to the customer, in the accounts paid by the customers. This applies not only to energy-intensive customers, but also to all industries, including individual customers. We pay for all this stuff. This bill, of course, is needed because it will help at least some companies. The 200 companies that will be able to benefit from this law at least have a chance that energy costs will be lower for them. I would like to remind you that in the debate in 2019 many people mentioned the history of the steelworks in Krakow in this room, which was already barely able to cope with such high energy costs. Today, this plant is gone. It's closed. How many more companies will have to close their business in Poland despite this aid? Because so high energy prices make them uncompetitive. It's an open question. This bill, this support is (the bell) necessary, necessary. Isn't it too small? I have huge doubts that it's too small. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u308	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Necessary on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will admit that this procedure mode is really demanding, because this large law, with a large level of complexity, appeared yesterday. There was a committee meeting today. It was very difficult to talk about this project very precisely, and now we are in the plenary room. But those are the terms. The purpose of the procedure for amending the Law on the system of compensation for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors is to implement new EU guidelines. In short, it's a 25% allocation. revenues from ETS emissions trading to support those industries which are most affected by energy price increases. Compensation is aimed at maintaining the competitiveness of European production while achieving ambitious climate objectives. The point is that this production should not run beyond the borders of the European Union. The contested law implements the Commission's new guidelines and dramatically increases the size of the resources allocated to these compensations. This is directly due to the rising prices of allowances. We're talking about an inexpensive amount, because in 10 years it's going to be almost 50 billion. The assumptions are absolutely right, although I have no doubt that during this debate there will be no shortage of votes against the European Union's honor and faith, European bureaucracy and blame for all the sins of the world, with particular emphasis on rising prices and falling support from the PiS. But perhaps it is all the more worth taking advantage of the opportunity to say a few words about why we need these mechanisms and these ambitious climate goals at all. The starting point is clear. We're in a climate crisis, we're facing a global disaster. The cause is greenhouse gas emissions. If we want to avoid the worst and pass on a viable planet to the next generation, our economy must radically change. I am aware that at this stage I have already lost part of the room, which stubbornly refuses to accept scientific knowledge. But, well, let's try to lose someone else because we need to be aware. We know that the free market can't save us in this situation. It's global capitalism, the primacy of profit has led us above all to the brink of disaster. It is clear that short- and medium-term profit managers will not make a decision that will make their financial performance worse today, and in the near future will contribute to reducing the planet's emissions and well-being. They will not make such a decision for obvious reasons: because they would immediately be released. That's the system. Profits immediately end up in a few accounts, and future and current costs are ceded to all of us, and to the greatest extent, which seems extremely unfair, to those who are just entering adult life or who are just entering into it in the future. That's why we need regulation. There is a need for mechanisms that will make companies change and turn our civilization green. These mechanisms, of course, may be wiser or dumber, but they are absolutely necessary. As these are not things that can be done at the level of one country, in our case we are talking mainly about European regulations. The European Union has decided on an emissions trading scheme in order to make it worthwhile to emit less than more carbon dioxide. I'm not a big fan of this solution myself. The market and even speculative nature of the ETS exposes companies not only to severe but also unpredictable costs. You can probably imagine a more functional and predictable system of taxation of emissions. Surely we must stop with the speculative nature of the ETS, but we cannot fire a child with a bath, we must not forget that this is all for something. One thing is certain: ambitious climate targets are cost-effective and the concern for the competitiveness of the European economy is most justified in this context. That is why this law is needed and that is why these compensations make sense. Therefore, other mechanisms, such as: the carbon duty at the entry into the European Union, so as to equalise these opportunities, is a good solution. It is also worth noting that among the requirements imposed on companies seeking compensation are those relating to energy efficiency standards. This is another growth boost that needs to turn in the future, because the climate crisis is a fact, and the new green industrial revolution is a necessity. These economies, which today consciously make an effort to change, will cope in the future. Besides, we're already paying the price today because we haven't changed our energy system in the last 10-20 years. And it's gonna take so long. If we do not consciously make an effort to change today, then we will be more and more behind, these costs will increasingly fall on us. Because it is not the European Union, but our delays in energy transformation are the main reason why Poles pay higher electricity prices today. But it can also be hidden that we started from a much lower level and that as Poland we are in a much more difficult situation than our Western European partners. And of course we must fight for fair treatment in Europe, which does not mean equal treatment in this case, because we are starting from different levels. But it cannot be avoided that for the current rulers of the European Union (the bell) it is no longer an area for fighting for Polish interests, but an excuse for not doing anything. This bill is needed and the Left, of course, will support it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u310	Thank you very much. Mr Władysław Teofil Bartoszewski on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u311	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the draft law amending the bill on compensation schemes for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors. I don't want to repeat what my parliamentary colleagues said. This is a necessary project required by the European Union. It is also a project beneficial for Poland. It is funny that it concerns Directive 87 of 2003, against which the entire right-wing side of the Sejm is protesting, although the recent amendments to this law in 2018 have been signed by no one else, like Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Prime Minister Morawiecki also signed the green revolution Fit for 55, which the government is now also going to contest. So there's a schizophrenia on the right side of the seym. As far as the whole of this law is concerned, it applies, of course, only to 14 energy-intensive sectors, i.e. 200 entities that can apply for support. However, let us take into account that until now, until this change, this amendment, 110 entities could have applied for support, so this is not a revolutionary change. It is very right that some of the money of this 45 billion PLN must be spent on reducing emissions, but that is what the whole ETS programme is about. And what have we done over the last few years? We have done that, unlike most European countries, where the average electricity produced from RES is above 36%, we have 16.2%. In 2016, the parliamentary majority, the United Right, killed the law on windmills on land, i.e. 10H. We killed photovoltaics a few months ago. 2 million Poles are waiting to be connected to solar panels, and we gave permission for 86 thousand. Biomass has been deleted from the energy change programme. And now let's look at how much Poles pay for it. How much does last year's changes cost gas purchased at spot prices, or stock exchanges? Over 400 PLN per MWh. But how much does a gas produced under a long-term jamal contract cost? 100 PLN per MWh. And how much is the energy from windmills on land? 200 PLN on the Freight Exchange. And how much will it cost from windmills at sea? Twice as much. Ladies and gentlemen, if last year Poland earned PLN 25 billion under the ETS, how much of this was allocated to renewable energy? PLN 1.5 billion. If we're so scandalous about this money, we're gonna lose the civilization opportunity that we're getting from changing our energy production system. Plus, because we don't invest in low-voltage networks... We're talking about the fact that we can't afford RES because the network won't hold. Then what has the government been doing for the last seven years? We made money on the ETS. approx. PLN 60 billion in the last few years. So? What did it go for? It went to a black budget hole, it was eaten over, it went to various programs, which absolutely did not serve energy change in Poland. Nevertheless, it is a small step in the right direction and the Polish Coalition Club will support this project with the hope that the government will reflect and start paying attention also to renewable energy sources. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u312	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń on behalf of the Polska 2050 wheel.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u313	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the government bill amending the Law on the system of compensation for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors. Ladies and gentlemen! This is, of course, an important project, and we have no doubt about it, but also an incomprehensible attitude of the government, which has been waiting since September to present this draft law to the High House. Today we are going to convert it into one day, but it really shows the government's attitude to energy transformation in general, to climate change, to RES and all those aspects that are today a historic challenge, a challenge that if we manage, future generations will have a chance to live here, they will have a chance to live normal lives, and if we fail, we will destroy the planet. And let me put it this way: unfortunately, these actions of the government are not conducive to protecting this planet at the level that we all require today. Of course, the issue of support for energy-intensive companies, energy-intensive industries is beyond any discussion. We are all aware of what it would be like if today these companies were exposed to high energy costs, to the entire financial system that exists, were deprived of this assistance. These industries would move beyond the borders of the European Union. On the one hand, this would, of course, result in an increase in the number of unemployed people, the collapse of certain industries, on the other hand, competitive power would be gained by countries and companies that are outside our territory. Therefore, this support is necessary, but no one has been too interested in this in recent years. It should be recalled that, instead of being motivated to think about the future, to think about this energy change, to think about changing paradigms, they were encouraged rather not to worry about it, not to take it into account in cost estimates, not to take it into account in investment plans. And, of course, with every step, every year that changes like this go away, they get more and more expensive. Today, rising energy prices make it painful for everyone. These compensations, although necessary, obviously do not cover the area of aid that is needed. Today, as a country, we should give a clear signal, a clear impetus to all these industries, that the time has come for rational, man-made decisions that will make these companies able to achieve energy neutrality, climate neutrality by 2050. And that's a big job. Today, on the government's side, we do not see this determination, which would result in the economy taking the right action to prevent the situation in which we are in, i.e. the changes that are not introduced at the right moment result in higher energy prices, resulting in higher burdens for citizens. Today we need this paradigm shift. We also need such a boost for innovation. Unfortunately, this bill does not give this impulse. That's why we're making two amendments. I already talked about it at the committee meeting. We propose an amendment which will introduce an amendment for companies that will benefit from this mechanism - let me remind you that there are about 200 such companies in Poland - the obligation to present to the president of URE a plan to achieve the company's climate neutrality by 2050. It is extremely important that today we not only stop at support but also give impetus to thinking about the future. And the second thing is, we're raising the effort from 50% to 55%, thinking this is the target direction. Let us support this change and support (the bell) good decisions. Please accept these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u314	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. And with a shot at the tape by Mr Winnicki, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u315	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The energy intensive industry in Poland is 1.5 million people employed together with co-operatives, hundreds of billions of income generated in Poland, almost 90 billion taxes, which in total accumulates this industry, which brings to the Polish budget. This is a huge, fundamental part of the Polish economy. This fundamental part of the Polish economy is being fought by the EU's climate and energy policy today and it must be made clear to itself. This fundamental part of the Polish economy, also the part that has the chance to be one of the flywheels of technological development, modernity, is, ladies and gentlemen, today simply targeting fanatics from Brussels, those fanatics who make Fit for 55, who make derealized programs, who make controversial programs not only in such economies as Poland, but also in the west of Europe. People grab their heads when it comes to the cost, how the situation is going to look. Ladies and gentlemen! This is one of the last alarms, this is one of the last moments to turn back from this wrong path. As the Minister said at the committee meeting, these directives come very late. This Brussels dictatorship comes and we're going to do it, we're going to destroy our economy, and we're going to be violently adapting. For what? The costs are incomparably higher than the profits from all EU funds, from all debt plans called recovery plans. Let's finally do the profit and loss account. Let's just say what's going on in this game. The point is that Poland should be and remain only a secondary assembly plant in the European economic circulation. The idea is to realize the utopia of green order, or rather the next disorder in the coming years and decades. Let us also make it clear that the solutions that Brussels is pushing today will lead to the fact that European economies, including especially the Polish economy, will not be competitive in the world, will lose their competitiveness. Europe will become an increasingly bizarre, perverted corner of the world, which will not be a model for others to follow, unfortunately it will be the angle that can be ignored more and more and more, and economic centres will move to other regions of the world as they move. Let us give the Polish economy new dynamism. Let us give it new dynamism, rejecting these EU regulations, rejecting this EU dictatorship. This must be repeated every time these matters are discussed on this platform. [[Let the Member say: let us leave the Union.]] Shall we leave the Union, sir? Let's count the money, sir. Let us count, Mr, the money and what we have from this Union and what we must eliminate in order to remain in the Union. [[That's the kind of bill that should have been a long time ago.]] So let's do the math. And when we count this money, let's really talk about the money (the bell) because we're losing much bigger than we're losing because of what Brussels is transferring. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u316	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I am closing the list of Members wishing to ask a question. Question one is... It doesn't show, it's a secret. ...Mr Rafał Adamczyk. You're welcome. We've got a malfunction. You're welcome, sir. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are talking about compensation for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors, but there is a group that will be excluded under the bill. I have the following question. Does the Ministry plan to compensate for sectors such as mineral extraction for the chemical industry, fertiliser and nitrogen compounds production, pipe, pipe, pipe, hollow profiles, seamless steel or cotton yarn production, chemical fibres production, iron ore mining and plastics production? Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u318	Thank you very much, sir. The next question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left. You're welcome. The pen was faster this time than the computer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This document shows, of course, the professional hand of the creators of the Polish Order. As before, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki signed the bill, who will probably say in a few days that he meant well, but did not know exactly what it said. The Prime Minister informs us that the projects have been created to enable eligible entities to benefit from compensation for 2021. In the meantime, in the text of the Act in Art. 33 new aid limits are set for 2022-2031. The amount for 2021 remained unchanged at the level fixed in 2019, so long before the surge in energy prices. It should therefore be expected that the project is probably propaganda in this part, and in a few months' time (the Bell), when companies receive a refusal of aid, the Minister responsible for preparing the project will resign. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u320	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u321	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the step forward. I already mentioned this during the committee meeting, but there was no way to continue this topic. I would very much ask that the Ministry be kind to explain whether it is planning any incentives or other measures that would provide an impetus for energy-intensive industries to prepare technological change, change in achieving climate neutrality, and I would very much ask for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u322	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u323	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The energy intensive industry is particularly exposed to the risk of relocation of production to countries outside the European Union. The indirect costs compensation contained in the Act may provide some protection against carbon leakage Minister, I have a question. In addition to increasing the ceiling for compensation payments, what solutions is proposed by the government to protect this sector from the removal of jobs (the Bell) in our country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u324	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u325	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Again, we're talking about compensation. PLN 31 billion for compensation for mining, PLN 66 billion for compensation and other financial instruments for PGNiG, today we are talking about PLN 35 billion for energy-intensive sectors. All this is due to the failure of the rule of law and justice. You have done nothing or very little in the context of renewables... [[What are you talking about?]] ... energy sources to prepare the ground for those companies that are actually having problems today so that they can reach for renewable energy. Minister, I'm asking you on behalf of these small, medium-sized, micro-enterprises that you have an offer for them today. These workplaces are closing today, raising prices. What does the government want to give these companies? Another question. Minister, is there any way the government is coordinating and checking, monitoring (the bell) the entities that receive the finalization, the prices of those goods that release these companies to the market? This is also asked by Poles, since there were so many billions of zlotys, tens, hundreds of billions, if these companies raise prices, as long as they raise the prices of their products. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u326	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u327	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The energy-intensive industry is mostly the metal ore processing industry, i.e. iron ore, further production of steel, but also copper, aluminium and in smaller quantities of other metals. We all know how important this is in the economy and construction, including energy. Transmission of electricity, but also transmission of fuels and gas are railway tracks, energy lines. On the other hand, the dangerous emissions that need to be reduced, hence the emission rights. This production is threatening to escape to Asia, and then there will be a similar price situation as today with gas. That's why today's bill is enjoying. But what further way is there to prevent this industry from escaping from the Union? Does the Ministry plan, apart from compensation, to support the reduction of energy consumption, the reduction of emissions or the use of its own renewable energy? Are there studies conducted in Poland on how to reduce energy consumption? This is important because the reduction of emissions (the bell) has already taken place in the car industry and here the reduction of emissions has been significantly successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u328	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u329	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! If we want cheap electricity and cheap heat and competitive Polish economy, this pathological EU emissions trading system must simply be eliminated. Poland should come out of EU climate policy, because it is one great cost. And in this matter, I am speaking with exactly one voice with Mr Robert Winnicki of the Confederation, who spoke just a moment ago. And Mr Teofil Bartoszewski really recommends not to speak Russian narration, not to speak with the voice of proputinist lobbying when it comes to natural gas, about Jamal. We really want to get rid of Russian gas. The European Union is being blackmailed by Vladimir Putin today. Really don't go into Waldemar Pawlak's narrative and defend the case of losing. Poland should use its own resources, which is why I am defending Polish coal, and you, unfortunately, are defending Russian gas.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u330	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you that we are at the point of questioning. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Law and Justice. [[He didn't ask.]] But I didn't ask you. [[He didn't ask.]] Madame, please, I would recommend a little peace of mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u331	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! [[He didn't ask, he didn't ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u332	Relax, Member. [[Did he ask?]] Take a deep breath, really. [[Did he ask?]] You're welcome. [[Did you notice?]] You're welcome, sir. [[And the others... because you're afraid of Kowalski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u333	Ladies and gentlemen, listening to the opposition here, you can ask the first such a classic question... I am in favour or even against. After all, ladies and gentlemen, you remember in 2015 how you talked to the miners at Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa about jobs, about your governments. It is not appropriate for you today to criticize something you owe, because today it is on Tusk's side, Mrs. Kopacz. It is you who have implemented the European Union's plans for our sectors and particularly energy-intensive ones. Minister, the question is whether companies have been consulted on today's law and whether this law is very necessary because of the speed we are transmitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u334	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sławomir Neumann, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u335	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Kowalski spoke about this earlier. You praise the great coal plants, but you forget to add that they are mostly for Russian coal, which you bring to Poland in bulk. We hear your phraseologies and all the stories of this anti-Russianness that you fight Russia regularly on all fronts. [[It's built by us.]] And you're pulling all these coals down by car, and they've been coming here since the beginning of your reigns in an extremely great way. [[15 billion...]] And then you say you're protecting Poland from the Russian gas, which you're also buying, and you're about to want to buy it through Baltic Pipe, because that's where the Russian gas will be delivered. So a little humility. On the other hand, the issue is serious because the price of energy is only 23% due to certificates and their prices. Remaining 75% And the question is, are you wondering how to make a transformation so that all companies can live better and be cheaper gas bills, electricity bills? [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause if you don't, competitiveness's gonna fall. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u336	Thank you very much, but the question was at the end. I'm honoring you. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to start by quoting, as did my predecessors, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who said that CO emission allowances I would like to say that they are also speculated by the Polish government, but not only. E.g. PKN Orlen earned in the fourth quarter of Ub. R. record profits... [[Tauron.]] ...of which 1,600 thousand. this profit is precisely from the speculation of powers (Applause), and it is the rights bought in much larger quantities than is necessary, in order to speculate. And that's what President Obejtek's bragging about. I have a question: How much did Tauron (the bell) earn on the permissions, e.g. For an out-of-way power block? Or billions at our expense? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u338	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u339	I have an explanation or a reminder for Mr Kowalski and I would ask him to remember it once and for all. The state imported 70 million tons of Russian coal in the years 2016-2020 for PLN 20 billion. And there is nothing there about helping Polish mining. Today's law allocates 35 billion to support energy-intensive plants, but it must be remembered that over the last 6 years, as Mr Bartoszewski said, out of 60 billion of the emission certificates, only 1 billion have been invested in the economy. In other countries, the increase in energy and gas prices is about 50% in this situation we have, and here for the baker 1000%. When will you finally support the baker? He's 1000%. raises and other countries were able to give support to entrepreneurs (Applause), give the same tariff as for the population. The baker's begging. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u340	The baker's begging. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u341	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Last year Poland earned over PLN 25 billion on the sale of carbon rights. Of all European countries, this is the most. 25 billion PLN. At least half of this money should be allocated to climate improvement objectives, but instead you pumped this money into the budget, and the Energy Transformation Fund you have been announced for a long time still does not exist. Minister! When are you guys gonna get to work, when are we gonna finally get this fund open? Can you give me a specific date? The funds from the sale of carbon rights for years could support the reconstruction of RES and zero-emission transport, thus serving future generations. Instead, when you re-eat this money in companies, throw it in the mud, on TVP, on CPK, on a pointless wall on the border, think about your children, grandchildren and their children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's their past. Today you're eating. But is it worth it? Thank you. [[Bravo!]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u342	And Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Here's the propaganda balloon for energy companies. The light bulb that everyone receives - there are only 6% of their own costs and 94% That's why you're guilty, including the red one, because it's taxing. The European Union and climate policy are at fault. We good people from Enea and others are only 6%. Citizens who have a G tariff are getting such greetings. I would therefore like to ask, also in relation to the billboard action of the Polish power plants, in which they increased this light bulb, said that 60% of the costs are climate policy... [[Voice from the room: Isn't that right?]] ...and please respond in writing to the Ministry, what is the actual cost that is borne in the G tariff (the bell) of the energy consumer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u344	Thank you. Members are done. There are no more Members to vote on. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Mr Mariusz Golecki. You'll answer, won't you? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Mariusz Golecki: Yes.]] You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: Shortly, because there are no questions asked.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This is indeed a very technical project, a very necessary project, as was also mentioned here. I want to address the questions that were many. Most of the requests were written because the project required a certain degree of precision. I would like to address more general issues, closely related to this project and not so many allegations, but some doubts about why, among other things. He was being processed at such a rate. Here, quite strong statements have been made in this case, which in some ways indicate the uniqueness of this situation. The uniqueness of the situation, first of all, results from the fact that indeed the increase in costs associated with energy-intensive sectors is very noticeable. It's true. If that's the case, why are we so late and why are we doing this in such a way? The European Commission is indeed... As far as the guidelines are concerned, they were presented in 2020. But it's all new guidelines. That's not all. What we have really been waiting for is, above all, a communication to the guidelines containing missing indicators, which was published by the European Commission, as I recall, on 30 December 2021. Without this, without the information that was included and made public, i.e. indicators, we were not able to calculate the level of compensation at all. As far as the level of compensation is concerned, I would like to reassure those who may have pointed to the voices that indicated that he might not be adequate. I will refer back to 2020 and 2021. Our experience is that with regard to the 2020 limit, which was granted and implemented on the basis of the 2019 limit, it amounted to 890 million and the use was 815 million. We're not predicting any... All applications should be granted. Therefore, if they are considered positively in 100%... For the record, we estimate 1766 million last year. That's enough. As far as what is going on this year is concerned, this crazy, very drastic trend in prices, the value of certificates and the costs involved, the limits for 2023 refer to this issue and address this issue. The limit is 4 billion and almost 200 million PLN, exactly 189 million PLN. We estimate that it is sufficient. As far as other companies, sectors are concerned, there are 200 companies, 1,5 Millions of employees. This is a very large production range. It's about important industries. The Ministry of Development and Technology, I must ensure this, is working on modernisation, support for these projects and modernisation. Today I had the opportunity to talk in the Council of Social Dialogue, as part of the steel industry team with this industry. This consciousness is full. It is about knowing that competition requires new technologies. There was a very high expectation from the industry that such a helpful hand from the state would be pulled out and that these compensations would finally function. Of course, that's not all. We also have modernization programs within the framework of KPO, e.g. on the circular economy, as well as energy and RES modernisation projects. So I'd like to reassure you that this package is. As far as small and medium-sized enterprises are concerned, the question has indeed been raised. We are working on a shield as far as these issues are concerned, although they will, of course, not fit in here. The Ministry of Development and Technology is currently conducting such work. As far as the effects of this law are concerned, I would like to stress that the urgency arises from this (the bell) that we take various concerns seriously. So far in the European Union, as I understand it, only Italy has implemented this measure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u346	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a time-out. 5:45 p.m. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min 07 hrs. 17 min 51]] I'm reopening the session. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the urgent government proposal for a law to assist households in the cost of changing the standard of digital terrestrial broadcasting, print No 1996. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report by the Commission on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies with an urgent government proposal for a law to support households in the cost of changing the standard of digital terrestrial broadcasting (prints 1989 and 1996). I ask Mr Radosław Fogel to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u347	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Following the referral of an urgent government bill to support households in the costs of changing the standard of digital terrestrial broadcasting to the Commission for Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technology, the committee has examined this draft law. Amendments have been proposed, some of which have been welcomed by the committee. Following its meeting on 8 February, the committee asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u348	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Radosław Fogiel on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u349	Thank you very much again, Marshal. I fully support everything I said in my speech this morning at first reading. This bill responds to a vital social need, which is to enable many Polish citizens to continue using digital terrestrial television when the coding standard changes. This law proposes a supplement of PLN 100, in principle up to PLN 100, for the worse-cased, who will be able to purchase the right decoder. The solution is rational. The solution is in line with the requirements and needs of the situation. Law and Justice, supporting this project, lays down - and I was authorized to do so by the club's management - two amendments. Amendment of Article Paragraph 24 2 of the law on how to calculate the amount due to the designated grant operator is an amendment which consummated the discussion of today's committee meeting by clarifying the rules on the calculation of the targeted grant. And the second amendment: in Article. 30, amending Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 of the Act of 16 July 2004 - Telecommunications Law, we add point 19b in the wording... The sound is in the text of the amendment. It is a matter of meeting the request of the Legislative Office for the establishment of criminal rules, as requested by the Office for Sejm Analysis. Since there was no definition of a television decoder in the Telecommunication Law, it was necessary to refer to the definition in this Act. I therefore request, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, that these amendments be taken into account and that this law be supported by a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u350	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Napieralski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Like the Member in front of me, I maintain everything I said this morning as regards our position on this matter. I'm really sorry, because it's a good idea. But why so late and why so quickly and so urgently, Mr Minister? After all, we've known for nearly five years that the system is to be changed. We've known about this for a long time, and we haven't prepared ourselves. The question is, is this long time when no one in the ministry has done anything, in fact, over the past few months, will be made up for it. Even today in the committee, it was very often asked whether this idea, about this law Polish and Polish people will learn about it in such a way that they can benefit effectively from this relief and really enjoy it. We don't know that, and we didn't get an answer to that question either. The second point is, of course, the preparation of this law. We have a lot of reservations about her because of this... I don't want to say sloppy, but there's a big rush. We have as many as 23 points, Minister, just verbal corrections, editorials from the Legislative Bureau. It shows that someone really wrote it very quickly and did not have time to think about it carefully. I'm really, really sorry that this is what it looks like. And it's serious because if we don't take these solutions and people don't exchange decoders, it's almost 2 million or over 2 million since June or July, because we don't know exactly, households won't be able to watch TV, they won't be able to watch their favorite educational programs, information programs or programs that bring them entertainment and joy. This is a very dangerous and very bad situation in our country. That's why I think that even this campaign that's in the media today is too late. Really, sometimes you have to listen hard to the radio receiver or watch commercials on TV so you can hear it. The next point that we have pointed out is that, however, ladies and gentlemen, you have not taken into account people with disabilities. This was also the case today at the committee meeting and in the discussion that, however, those who are disabled and need additional help were not included in this project, they were not given priority at all. They really have a hard life, and yet this law also applies to them. And we know that this new technology can also help them, and it can be very good for them. But they weren't specifically covered, although this bill says that anyone with income below... It's just that you don't know how to count this income all the time. You keep saying they're people who come forward and declare... But you're still talking about punishment, so it's pretty dangerous, too. Someone may think that this 100 zloty belongs to him, and then he will be punished because we don't really know these issues when it comes to checking the application for 100 zloty. Another thing that we have drawn attention to, and in our view, it is very important - and we are also, of course, making an amendment on this issue - is the matter in the Act on the recording of the operator that will create it. It's about a contract signed by the Ministry and spending money. We're gonna ask for it, really. I hope that the Law and Justice and the Government will agree to this amendment. We would like to see this agreement, which will be concluded with the operator, first discuss at the committee meeting, see what it looks like. We do not break the state's secret, it is public money, so we will also make such a proposal, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in order to make it work. At the end of my speech: Minister, Mr Reporter, it is that you are putting us again - I am talking about the opposition - in a very difficult situation, because we actually raised this issue at the meeting of the Digital Commission last year. We said it had to be solved really early so people wouldn't change decoders in a hurry. 'Cause if everyone jumps on decoders now, it's a question of whether these decoders are gonna get it. From here we are again faced with a difficult choice: whether to support the wrong bill, but to help people even in a small piece or to be against this law. We make six amendments. We will also discuss them at the committee meeting, please. These are, in fact, amendments that are meant to serve people and are also meant to control the government in terms of whether money is being spent well. These amendments, Minister, we are making. We hope for a fruitful discussion at the committee meeting and we would like to work on this further. Mr. Marshal! These corrections are here. You're welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u352	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The law is procedated as a matter of urgency, so in the morning - first reading, we expressed as opposition clubs our doubts and questions. During the committee meeting, the Minister tried to answer these questions and tried to correct our doubts. Surely not all doubts he was able to resist. Krzysztof Gawkowski asked, for example. about disabled people, people with disabilities, especially those blind, visually impaired, how to help them access digital television. My question, in turn, focused on the information campaign, which is intended to help citizens and citizens access, to get these 100 PLN of help, so that they can also start using a new way of receiving television. The Minister replied to me that the promotion was carried out by the Institute of Communications and that we would have full insight into the expenditure, what this money would be allocated to, how this information campaign would be conducted. Because, of course, I was scared, and I'm still afraid that some of the money spent on the information campaign would go to, for example. to TVP. So, Minister, you haven't explained everything to us and made it clear. The Left will support this law in order to help those really poor people who do not have the opportunity to spend 100 PLN on the decoder. We hope that those who are well placed will not apply for help that they do not need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u354	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, Coalition Poland, remotely. Member, please. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u355	Good morning, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Once again, I have the honour to present the position of my club, the Polish Coalition Club - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, Marek Biernacki, on the government bill in print No. 1989 to support households in the cost of changing the standard of digital terrestrial broadcasting. In my previous speech, Mr. Marshal, I asked a lot of questions about protecting the personal data of people who are going to apply for funding to buy a decoder. These questions were due to the deep concern about the need to protect sensitive data of Poles in order to protect them from frauds, trade or the leak of personal data. To be honest, I'm still concerned about these security questions. These questions were essentially deepened after the meeting of the digitisation committee, because at this meeting I heard that the persons concerned would be collected not in the forms of the ministry, but in forms that would be created by operators admitted to the programme. That is why I wonder what database will collect sensitive data from Poles and how they will be protected. Fast process over the law, although it has been known for a long time that changes in broadcasting standards need to be made, may result in a lack of availability to decoders or a sharp rise in prices for these devices, which may make it difficult to implement the programme's objectives. Besides, there won't really be time for an information campaign that could help protect Poles from possible frauds. This is very important, Mr. Marshal. I'm also concerned about the writing of the article. 3 A law that vaguely clarifies the material situation for households or what criteria will prevent the costs of purchasing a television decoder from being incurred on its own. In addition, this is covered by the clause in Article. 7 on criminal liability for making a false statement. In fact, the lack of clarity of the provisions of the law makes it impossible to state clearly what is really true and what is not true with regard to the clause signed. This uncertainty will be faced by those who join the programme and wish to benefit from the funding. Mr. Marshal! I hope that all ambiguities or doubts will be detailed in the implementing rules for the bill. I also hope that the agreements between operators and the ministry will be clear and reliable, particularly in terms of the transfer of funds. Of course, as a club of the Polish People's Party, the Polish Coalition we are also in an awkward situation, because the project is being processed quickly. This is not a problem for us that it is quickly processed, it is just that it is not fully prepared. But still, Mr. Marshal, we will support this project because we think that any system solution that supports Poles, especially seniors, for example. in a difficult material situation, it is worth supporting. That's why it's our club's job, marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u356	Thank you very much. Now Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u357	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This law - quite quickly written, as has already been mentioned, because a bit of editorial amendments had to be done there and it is possible that there will still be some way to look at it - is so interesting that even though we still have hot inflation, you want to give away money again. That's one thing. Secondly, I heard here from the hall that this is a very important issue, because if we don't do something about it, then in six months some people won't be able to watch their favorite shows. I understand that this is an argument for funding Xboxes, iPhones, etc. You know, this stuff's getting old. Someone who has an iPhone 5, an iPhone 6 no longer has the possibility of having an iPhone 12, an iPhone 13, and you have to do something about it. The government should somehow work, give these people the opportunity to access all the applications that those who, for some reason, could afford to buy new equipment. It's obviously something cool, but you've also gotten us used to making decisions like this. We have a situation where, of course, you create a market for these decoders. There's potential for their prices to rise, first of all. Secondly, of course, the hidden purpose of this law is to write down people who will take this money so that they can no longer pretend that they no longer have a TV, and not pay a subscription, which should by its own means be abolished. He has no use at this time, especially since you have financed the Polish Television 2 billion PLN, so that she can start this propaganda according to your party recognition, because I will remind you that one of your party officers in the propaganda department is the president of the Polish Television and this television sets itself up in an appropriate way towards power. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't quite understand why this bill suddenly appeared and why you want to bring it in. I don't know who you want to please, even though I can imagine that you might want to tell the electorate again: here we are, we, the Law and Justice, giving away money. And here's another thing, because in this distribution of money you don't know if you will have to give away 300 million PLN, or maybe 1 billion PLN, or maybe 1.5 billion PLN. You don't know where you are. By writing this bill... This is one of the most fascinating things, because here in the Seym, when you write laws, you have to give the cost of these laws, and you shoot. Come on, you have to throw it away. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u358	Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. [[But there, in this project, there's a maximum amount.]] [[And there's a minimum, and there's a 1 billion spread.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u359	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In fact, the committee meeting and the work we have been doing this day did not explain most of my doubts about this project. Of course, I am convinced that this funding is needed and probably, even I will certainly encourage my colleagues to support this solution. However, there are still many unknowns here. I'm afraid we can't solve these unknowns. The main unknown is the notification of the European law, which is, after all, public aid. During the committee meeting, the Minister explained that this notification was not necessary, but that there were expert voices which indicated that, however, we should not proceed without the notification procedure as regards the subject matter of this law. If the purpose of this project is to disseminate the HEVC standard, why do we limit this benefit only to decoders? Why not include subsidies for all digital terrestrial television receivers? After all, decoders are only a certain part of the market for these receivers. You won't be able to buy, for example. A new TV, using government funding. In this context, I will once again submit an amendment to the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050, which extends the range of devices that can be co-financed on the basis of government provision, including digital terrestrial television receivers. There are many controversys, e.g. How do you want to verify the accuracy of the statements concerning the material situation, because one of the elements that will authorise a person to receive such a benefit will be to make a statement that he or she has a difficult material situation which does not allow him or her to purchase such a decoder or receiver on its own. This statement will, of course, be made under the threat of criminal proceedings, but it is not very clear what is next, i.e. It is not very clear what will happen if someone makes such a statement and it is not true. To sum up, you're ruining the market. Worse still, not the whole market, but part of it, because you're generously trying to ruin the decoder market, not the receiver market. There's no consequence in that. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 makes an amendment which, although in one aspect, will respond to the hopes of experts formulated in correspondence related to this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u360	Thank you very much. There are Members who are written down to ask questions. Mr Rafał Adamczyk of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would very much ask for information on the basis of which data and sources you estimated that 2 million farms in Poland would need to purchase a decoder to receive at least terrestrial television. That's the answer I'm asking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u362	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u363	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! That's a good idea, but why so late. That's what everyone's asking. But if we're going to help Poles, then let's help them where they need to be. And that should be the final part of that statement. Unfortunately, it must also be made clear to the Poles that the scale of information they will provide to those who are to pay them this 100 zloty, may in a moment cause that all those who do not pay the subscription will pay it, because the government does not give anything for free. A government of public money will not give free money, and as a result of the funding of these decoders, bailouts against those who do not pay their subscription may follow. So we're saying "A," but let's say, Minister, "B." Maybe we should say B and give up our subscription in Poland at all and stop paying for it. And my last question, which was: How much will the employees (The bell) of the Polish Post make from these 100 PLN as part of the increase? Thank you very much. I'd like a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u364	Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u365	Mr. Liberty Man Kaczyński! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will support the funding of PLN 100 per decoder provided that, in addition to adapting to the reception of terrestrial television, they will also have the function of deceiving government television. If they decode these steaks of lies, manipulations, hatred, which every day dripping into the ears of Polish and Polish TVPiS. By all means, let's finance such decoders, which will make the PiS-owska skunk again become public television, from which you can learn the truth about Pegasus's scandal, surveillance, swindlers on masks, respirators, envelope elections, unprecedented inflation and hundreds of other scandals. But I'm afraid these decoders don't exist yet. And that's too bad, 'cause then everyone's gonna come to their senses and nobody's gonna vote for you anymore.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u366	I was hoping for a moment that you weren't in the O.R. But unfortunately, you are. [[But I am always because I am an urgent messenger.]] Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u367	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The beneficiaries of this law will be able to submit applications for support for the purchase of the decoder also via Polish Post Offices. I don't think I'm going to discover America, claiming that many post offices in our country are no longer able to handle the comfort of customer service. Staff shortages, long queues, poor management despite the implementation of new operating systems - all this already makes doing anything at the post office not a pleasant thing. Since, as you assume, up to 2 million Poles, including especially older people, can benefit from support for the purchase of a decoder, I would like to ask whether you are planning to introduce additional solutions at post offices on this occasion, so that the comfort for customers and also for mail workers is significantly improved. If not, it's worth thinking about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u368	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I asked you at first reading, but I did not get an answer, why it is not expected to be possible to receive this 100 gold help to purchase a decoder for those who did this and are in a difficult material situation, e.g. for older people or families of many children. The project doesn't foresee it. You could, for example. It's done through... I know it's all supposed to be non-cash, so this group that you already bought has the right invoice, it could have, for example. A reduced subscription for this time. Which would also be a non-cash solution for those who made the purchase. The second issue is related to the amount of data and whether these data, I repeat, will be used by the operator to prosecute for not paying the subscription. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u370	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u371	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I wonder why you're designing such complicated solutions. After all, it would be enough to reduce it by 1%. VAT, as promised before 2015, and people would not only gain from buying TVs, but would also gain much more than 100 PLN in purchases in just one week. On the other hand, the state is building some complicated system, where it is not even what support it will be, but that it is another gift with which you can go to people and say: we, the good government, bring something. But this isn't the way. Minister, we need to simplify, lower taxes and leave more hard-earned money in people's pockets. I feel like the government doesn't know that pay is hard to earn. Minister, when is the government gonna use the data you're gonna collect to chase people for an unpaid television subscription? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u372	Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u373	One time in a row - already several dozen times in this House - we are proceeding on the bill that was written this morning, it pushed its knee through the committee at noon and which must be voted on in the evening. Gentlemen, you're breaking the law and you're ruining it, whatever these laws are. Such laws can be prepared during the pandemic period and such a law should be done quickly, for example. Inoculate all white personnel, but in this case you do not do it, you delay, you keep your hand on the pulse - because no, because there our voters - and otherwise you push the bill with your knee. I want to ask you about the retirees. Retirement is a less affluent group you want to make up for, but there are also preventative pensioners who bought these decoders a month or two ago. Will those who bought get a surcharge for the decoder, or will they be treated differently than those who wait until the last minute? Second thing. Why does this apply only to decoders and not to televisions? Why do you force people to buy idiotic devices that allow them to hook up old TVs (the bell) instead of financing them to buy a new TV in the same amount? This is ridiculous.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u374	Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u375	And one last thing about the subscription, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u376	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u377	Just admit it's a tax, and move it from the post office to the IRS, because the post office is now... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...from soap to ignominy.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u378	Thank you, yes, yes. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u379	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr Łącki has already stolen what I wanted to speak with me to ask why the TVs will not be co-financed. But let's pull this because the fact is, you've invented that you're gonna be adding to the decoders, and you're not gonna be adding to the other equipment. Why decoders, why this? Or is there a business to do here? I'd like to know if there's any chance there's any other way to get into this? Maybe you should invest in some company that produces it, maybe you need to talk to someone who distributes it? Mr. Reporter, if you had a tip where you could invest to make a quick profit now, because you're putting in a bill that you probably invented last night to introduce it tonight, I'd like to know, because I also like to invest my money well. This, on the other hand, is completely incomprehensible and actually spoils the market. So if you have information, you have a phone call for me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[It's not for me. I'll give you mine.]] [[Voice from the room: I would like to too.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[That's what's different, he doesn't take calls from the opposition.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u380	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u381	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to claim a group of disabled people who have eye problems. This law talks a lot about the support of many social groups, but people with visual disabilities have a particular right to demand, when dealing with such projects, laws supporting them and reaching for modern information technology, which in the 21st century should give them a sense of security as a subject of smartness. We can do this, and it's worth it. Therefore, Minister, I ask that you try to make various kinds of changes and adjustments in this projection so that this group can receive such support. If it is lacking at the level of parliamentary and later senate legislation and there are no such amendments, then on behalf of the Left, I would like to announce that this is exactly the project we would like to submit to support this group of visually disabled people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u382	Thank you. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u383	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question concerns Art. The 28th Bill. This is a criminal provision concerning a crime, a provision that regulates the responsibility of the trader accepting the payment and directing it to a purpose other than the sale of the decoder. Then he faces a fine, a reduction in his liberty or imprisonment for up to two years. My question is: Why do you make such a provision? After all, such an entrepreneur corresponds to the article. 271 Penal Code for untruthful testimony, because it doesn't actually prove that he's selling a decoder by selling something else. If, in any event, he forces someone to do so, he provokes the regulation to property in a way that diminishes the assets, it is in line with the article. 286, i.e. for regular fraud and both of these offences are subject to a criminal threat similar to that of Article. 28 draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u384	Mr Radosław Fogiel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u385	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! It is difficult to refer to speeches that only bear witness to those who speak. If someone in the Seym thinks first of all about how to earn money, he is giving a witness to himself. [[Margaret Prokop-Paczkowska: I think that's what Mejza thinks.]] [[Voice from the room: Mask.]] I'm going to refer to the performance that the marshal hoped wouldn't happen. It inspired me, and hence my question to the Minister, whether it is possible to undertake research and development work on personal decoders in the Ministry of Digitalization, because, as you can see, some fellow Members of parliament would need those to get back in touch with reality, like those who have not noticed that we voted in this House for VAT reduction a few weeks ago that PIT was reduced by 1 percentage point, introduced PIT-0 for young people up to 26. Therefore (The Bell) re-contact with reality would be advisable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u386	Mr Grzegorz Napieralski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u387	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Three questions, so fast, still in this part. First. Let's get back to the disabled question. We as the Civic Coalition Club have tabled an amendment because we believe that, in fact, if technology is to serve people and technology is to help those who need it and the disabled need it, they should be included in this bill, they should be given the opportunity to help, even in terms of buying the right TV so that they can watch the right programs. Second question. Is it not possible to find a solution, still at the stage of work on the bill, so that those who were urgent heard the government's information regarding the purchase of the decoder and the change of this broadcasting system and bought this decoder, spent money, could also count on it? And the third point is very important to me, too. Will you support our amendment to the law on how this whole grant operation will actually be financed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u388	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now, please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Janusz Cieszyński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u389	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you very much for the questions, thank you for those votes in the discussion. I'll try to answer them one at a time. Mr Napieralski asked if this message could be reached. Like I said, there's a campaign planned and there's already action to make it clear that this state, this change of standard, is coming. As soon as the law enters into force, we will also be able to talk about these solutions. Of course, I encourage all your parliamentarians to inform us together, because this is, I think, a post-political message that is important to many voters. We will, of course, be at your disposal. You indicate that the needs of people with disabilities have not been given priority. And here I had the opportunity to read the amendment that you had tabled. As I pointed out, we are inclined to talk even more about this support for people with disabilities. I know there wasn't much time today, but we still have a job in the Senate. Maybe it'll be a place to look at it better, more comprehensively. As I say, it is worth fighting for, in our view, because this is a group with special needs and here, as always, the Government of Law and Justice will act to ensure that the needs of this group are addressed accordingly. That was also asked by other parliamentarians. We'd love to talk about it. The Member has just asked what the money will be passed on to, what this campaign will look like. As I have already pointed out at the committee meeting, we have an agreement here among all television operators and they will not take any gold for it, because it will be issued as a public announcement, and this is in the interest of all broadcasters, not just public television. Mrs Nowogórska asked about the question of data. There's one thing worth explaining here. The designated operator will not be those entities that will carry out the purchase, only the designated operator will be Posta Polska. And only Poczta Polska will process these data, which the citizen will of course see that they are given. It'll be a simple contact data. In our view, and here we have security experts both on the post office side and on the Prime Minister's side, here there are no threats to data leakage. In particular, the purposes, i.e. the means or purposes for which the data will be processed, are also indicated. And it is not one of those objectives of charging for a radio-television subscription, as some of your fellow Members suggested in their statements. Mr Dziambor has left us, but I am very surprised that there is such criticism of this project on the part of the Confederation, because it is, ladies and gentlemen, just a 100% pro-freedom project. The state earns a lot of money on the sales of frequencies and because, due to these activities, in a sense, it expounds Poles from their TVs, because these TVs in old technologies could no longer be used, offers fair compensation, not too big, not too small, market, so that everyone can compensate for the damage they suffered. This is how I think you should function. Mr Grammara asked for public aid. We've explained this many times. This cannot be mentioned in this case, among others. that is why there are these social criteria. Mr Adamczyk asked for estimates of why 2270 thousand. persons. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is the respect that the National Media Institute has presented to us on the basis of the research that the Institute is carrying out. This is a unit connected to the National Radio and Television Council. That's the kind of research he's doing. We don't have better information, and that's what we've been leaning on. Mr Szopiński asked about issues related to the salaries of Polish Post workers. This is, my fellow Member, a decision always on the side of the Polish Post or any other company that cooperates with us. We do not go into this so deeply, but these are additional measures, so that it is very often so that additional resources, additional work is also paid for. There were also questions about people who had already decided to buy it. Here it is worth pointing out that we are talking about support, which is precisely social support, i.e. those who have not been able to afford such expenditure. By making such a purchase, unfortunately a person, you can say, proves that this was not the case in her case. [[No. The person proves she's preventable. She bought it earlier because it's cheaper, Minister.]] Of course. [[...not that she can afford it. The pensioner has one pocket and the same hand or the pensioner he bought...]] And that is why to all those who (the bell) at this point are unable to finance it out of their own pocket, we propose such compensation. I'm very sorry that time is running out because I wanted to say something more about those personal decoders, but I'm afraid I won't make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u390	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution in connection with the centenary of Tadeusz Gaycy's birth (prints 1988 and 1995). I ask Mr Mariusz Polużny to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the Committee on Culture and Media has gathered on a resolution commemorating Tadeusz Gaycy on the 100th anniversary of his birthday, which we are celebrating today. The resolution itself did not raise any controversy among the members of the committee. The content of the resolution was developed on the basis of a compromise, taking into account all the editorial amendments and all the most important amendments of all the political forces that thought it worth it, and even need to commemorate today this great poet, the great Pole. This proposal was adopted unanimously, by acclamation, at the meeting of the cultural committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u392	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Mariusz Kałużny, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club and on my own behalf as an applicant, I would like to recommend to you the adoption of a resolution commemorating Tadeusz Gaycy. I will start today, as in the resolution commemorating Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński, with the question: What kind of nation is it that shoots at the enemy with diamonds? Yes, the Polish people. Such a diamond was Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński, but also Tadeusz Gajca, whose 100th birthday anniversary is celebrated today. A great poet and a great patriot. Actor of the Polish underground of independence. A representative of the tribe of Columbus, a generation who sacrificed their lives for their homeland. The diamond covered with the crown of the White Eagle. He was the editor-in-chief of the underground literary monthly Art and Nation, whose motto was: Artist is the organizer of national imagination. At a time when artists are so hard to deal with, at a time when national things are becoming less and less attractive, where national imagination is hard to imagine, we mention a great poet, in whose works the theme was to think of the sense of sacrifice in the name of love for people and homeland, and key issues - taming death and choosing between hatred and love, of course, for the sake of love. Tadeusz Gaicy was finally a soldier of the Home Army. Finally, he wrote the most difficult and beautiful poem: a poem about sacrificing his life for his homeland, a poem of his own life, because he sacrificed his own life for his homeland. He died together with a friend of the poet Zdzisław Stroinski during the Warsaw Uprising in a building blown up by the Germans. Today we owe it not only beautiful works, but also the freedom of our homeland. In 2009 he was posthumously awarded the Commander's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland by the sleeper. President Lech Kaczyński. On the 100th anniversary of his birthday in this House, I would like to refer again to the values that constitute and develop our nation. These are culture, freedom and love for the country. Let us not give up this, let us cultivate these values, especially among young generations. In times of cosmopolitanism, in times of moral relativism, in times of selfishness and pursuit of our own desires, let us not give up looking at our homeland through the prism of the imagination of national artists, but also through the prism of the testimony of their lives. Today we thank you for your wonderful and patriotic work and for the freedom of our nation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u394	Thank you. Ms Urszula Augustyn, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On August 1, 1993, on the Polish Radio, Tadeusz Gaycy mentioned his friend Zofia Orszulska: he was a boy of exceptional charm. Not very tall, well-built, very busy, and even in spite of his work, which reached for disaster, he was glowing with humor and grace. Czesław Milosz spoke of Gay: "The explosion, full of joy of life, greedy of life." That's why his death was so painful for me. And because of the promise of great talent. At the time, I even thought Gay people had more opportunities than Baczynski. Of course, it is difficult to predict when someone dies at such a young age, as he said years later. Tadeusz Gaicy and Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński were considered the most outstanding creators of the Columbus generation. Herbert, though appreciating Baczyński's poems, preferred Gaicy's poetry: He writes in men's language, determined, possessive, but powerless against powerful horror. Words like on the edge of the abyss. Stroke evenly measured, stoned. The same Zbigniew Herbert about the matter of the imagination organizing emotional content in Gajcy said it was the matter of the fiery prophetic dream. Yeah, a dream from the sign of fire - that's probably the closest temper to Tadeusz Gaicy as a poet. The author himself, in his poetic will, connects creative acts to the blowing of flames. The word of the poet is high and fiery. From such opinions of friends and critics, from the left-over texts one can draw an image of an extraordinary poet: sensitive, exceeding the limits of imagination and words. He only had time to publish two volumes of poems, but these two volumes gave him a place in the history of literature. It is worth it - it should be, it is our duty - also to mention that it is not only poetry that places it in our hearts and in history. From the first day of August 1, 1944, Tadeusz Gajcy, under the alias Axe, fought in the Warsaw Uprising in the Old Town on the Cloud Storm and Expedition Team, Zdzisław Stroiński. Besides, both poets died in the ruins of the building that the Germans blew up, so they died fighting. I want to draw attention to a very important thing. Today we want to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the birth of Tadeusz Gaycy by a resolution of the Sejm, but very beautifully they do it different environments. In 2009, the Council The Museum of the Warsaw Uprising released a disc called Gayce, on which contemporary musicians: Maleo, Kazik, Deserter or Lech Janerka perform lyrics for poetry. There is also a record on which Tadeusz Gaycy's poems are recited by Boris Szyc, accompanied by music composed by Adam Pierończyk. These are beautiful testimonies of how Gaicy's poetry, the man who gave his life in defence of his homeland, in battle for his homeland, difficult and sensitive poetry is important today (the bell), current and still under consideration. And these two albums, as well as their creators, performers, are beautiful carriers of values that Tadeusz Gayca once wrote about. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u396	Thank you. Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u397	High Izbo! When we decide on anniversary resolutions, and especially if they concern artists, we would like them to pass without controversy. In this case, it actually was. But some questions need to be asked. Tadeusz Gajcy is an outstanding poet of the war time, an AK soldier who died in the Warsaw Uprising, but also a member of the Confederation of Nations, a political-military underground organization formed in the environment of ONR-Falang activists, i.e. Polish fascists. Luckily, in his editorial work, Gaica cut himself off from this fascist, anti-Semitic ideology. The National Confederation hoped for the victory of the end of the war and the construction of the Slavic Empire with the dominant role of Poland within the borders before the first partition. Russia was to be reduced to the size of the former Moscow dukedom, so the dreams of power were also about us. Gay people gave their lives for their country, but did they have to, or should they? Wouldn't it be better if he lived and kept building? And here we have to ask whether the decision of the commanders of the outbreak of the uprising, which inevitably convicted young people to death, was the right decision. Because the son of the Polish empire went to the uprising with one grenade. His friend Zdzisław Stroiński, another poet, had a gun without bullets. In his last poem, which he created during the uprising, he wrote: "All saints, hey to the table!" In the sky a feast: Polish guts,/ Straight from Kilinski gutters!/ Salceson bowl full/ Fresh crispy. It smells like a dead body: To the mating, the saints, to the mating, to the Christ of the Nations! This last poem was written on a paper bag, seeing the effects of the massacre of Warsaw residents. He asked his commanding officer what kind of saint is patronising today. Jacek Cieślak wrote in Rzeczpospolita: "It is hard to be surprised that Gaicy put his ridiculous poem on the messanics of his environment, which he is living again today. The Left will support the resolution commemorating Gaicy's poet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u398	Even worse, it's a pity the Left is alive. Please, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are few poets whose life has become a symbol of the fate of the entire generation. Undoubtedly Tadeusz Gajca, one of the most important representatives of the 1920s. They were called Columbus because they discovered a previously unknown continent of terror, suffering, fear and death. Extremely talented poetic, editor of the underground magazine Art and Nationals, convinced of their uniqueness, lived like his peers - intensely, quickly and creatively, feeling the coming death. He died in an insurgent remission at the age of 22. He published two thin poetic volumes that went into the history of literature. To this day they draw attention to the original fantasy, which is pierced by fear, childish sensitivity woven from images of apocalyptic horror, finally with a sense of absurdity of the moment of history, observed with disbelief - like a kind of scary grotesque. After nearly 80 years since Gaicy's death, we must be asked: Who was this young poet and playwright? What was associated with the ultrarighteous environment of Art and Nation? What aroused Czesław Miłosz's dislike, which changed dramatically after years? Under whose name he hides in the novel of Columbus. A 20-year-old Roman Bratny? His talent was admired by Iwaszkiewicz, he praised the age-old Staff, and after years Herbert recognized him as the best poet of the tribe of Columbus. Stanisław Beres in the book Gay. In the ring of death, he scans the tragic life of a poet, referring to family memories and acquaintances, but above all, he carefully analyzes his work. It is worth to learn about his work on the 100th anniversary of his birthday, which for many years has been overlooked and forgotten. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives Marek Biernacki I would like to inform you that our club will support this draft resolution. I thank the applicant for his preparation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u400	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The generation, which entered into its adulthood in the years of World War II, was perhaps the best generation that our homeland had ever seen in its more than a thousand years of history. And among these best sons and daughters of our nation, one of the most outstanding artists was him - Gaiacs. He was a man who enlisted in Polish literature, in Polish poetry, in Polish history, in Polish memory as an outstanding, extraordinary figure, as an amazing potential, even though he died at the age of 22. And he is not the only one from the art community and the nation, you can mention Trzebiński or others. Yes, from this community of art and the nation, which was, as it were, an artistic, cultural arm of the Confederation of the Nations, which during the dark years of German and Soviet occupation, in the dark years of brown and red terror perfectly understood that it was necessary to awaken the spirit of Poles, that one cannot disgust memory, national identity, that art is not to stumble, provoke, shock, that art is to inspire, to bring inspiration, to give hope to bring good. How significant and timely this is in today's world. How current in today's world of postmodernism, ugliness and distortion of art in happening, provocation, in outrage. How characteristic that even on the occasion of this resolution on the part of the Left we had to hear the attack. Attacking what? At Gay's? For a 20-year-old who gave his life for Poland? No. Attack on what he represented: national identity, striving for Poland to be a great state, that the nation should be a great nation, with great aspirations, not buried in its weaknesses, into its entanglements. And finally, this attack goes on for a simple reason - because just like the Confederation of the Nations, like the National Armed Forces, the National Military Organization, which was the foundation after the National Army merged, these environments knew that in the 1940s. Poland (The Bell) has two enemies: the first - brown, German invader and the second, who walked from the east - red, communist totalitarianism, who also brought with him those who are sitting on this side of the room today, their heirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u402	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Oh, no, I'm sorry. Excuse me. There are still questions. Mr Jan Szopiński from the Left has something to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u403	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are no resumes of whites and blacks. Today we honor the 100th anniversary of the birth of Tadeusz Gaycy, who gave his life for his homeland and was a unique poet who died on the insurgent redoubt. The 100th anniversary of his birthday is a perfect time to remind his work, somewhat forgotten in school programs. Therefore, I have an appeal to the Ministry of Education, so that today's resolution of the Sejm does not end only as a resolution of the Sejm, so that the work of Tadeusz Gaicy will actually return to school programmes a little wider than before. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's a very good idea.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u404	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u405	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I think there are people, events and things that connect. It seems like Gay people are that kind of person. His poetry, his patriotism are things that connect, which can be viewed positively, showing the path that young people can follow. Therefore, I would very much ask for information from the government in writing, which actions this year it intends to take to honor this 100th birthday anniversary accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u406	Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Sejm intends to commemorate on the 100th anniversary of Tadeusz Gaycy, a poet, a Polish student on secret sets, a representative of the Columbus generation and a young patriot who died at the age of 22, taking an active part in the Warsaw Uprising as a soldier of the National Army. Tadeusz Gaicy, although associated with the nation's environment, was not blinded by extreme ideology, but more inclined to reconcile with writers with other views. But even more important to him was his love for his homeland. Patriotism in his work is sincere and deeply experienced. In his poems we will find the apocalyptic vision and reality shown by rich symbolism. He connected reality with the world of sleep, tamed death and made a choice between love and hatred. In his poetry there is the voice of young people who have lost the cruelty of the war from becoming an adult. Let it be for us today, politicians, some kind of memento. Thank you very much, Mr Kolozhny (The Bell) for preparing this resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u408	Thank you. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050. I don't see a Member. It is indeed now that the list of Members of Parliament has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 21. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 55 hours 21 min 05]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u409	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering into a quorum. I therefore ask all Members to press any button to confirm their participation in the meeting. The meeting shall be attended by 455 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights presented its opinion on the proposal for the selection of a candidate for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, in print No 1987. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of the matter. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 2003. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution in connection with the centenary of Tadeusz Gaycy's birth. Let's move on to the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1995. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 1995 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 456 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the commemoration of Tadeusz Gaicy on the 100th anniversary of his birth. We are returning to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Health Committee on the draft law amending the law on the prevention of drug addiction. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1975. The committees also present the conclusions of the minorities on which we will vote first. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. 6 The Act on the refund of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices is proposed by the applicant to add paragraph. 5b. This proposal is linked to the 1st minority request. We will vote on them together. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 1 and 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 216 - for, 238 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. Minority requests 2 and 3 have been submitted to Article. 1 draft law amending the anti-drug law. In the second minority application, applicants propose to add Article. 33e. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 216 - for, 238 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the third minority proposal to Article. 53 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 212 - for, 239 - against, abstained 6. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1975 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 438 for, 15 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm passed a law amending the anti-drug law. We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the parliamentary draft law amending the law on the prevention of drug addiction and the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1977-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Jarosław Sachaika to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u410	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today at the hour. 12 took place a second reading of the Parliamentary draft law on amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction and the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre, prints no. 1611 and 1977. Eight amendments were tabled during the second reading. The Commission recommends amendments 1 to 4 reject, 5 accept, 6 reject, 7 accept and 8, perhaps the most important of all, allowing farmers to sell fibrous poppy and hemp in the framework of agricultural retail and direct sales, the committee also recommends accepting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u411	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act 1977. The Commission in its additional report sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. All amendments were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the anti-drug law. In the first amendment to Article. 45 applicants shall propose the addition of paragraph. 2a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 208 - for, 247 - against, 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 2nd amendment to the inserted article. 47b applicants propose that a new wording be given. 1 and amendment to paragraph 1. 10. Amendment 4 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 170 for, 244 against, 44 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the inserted article. 47b applicants shall propose that paragraph be deleted. 6. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 213 - for, 240 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 52a (2) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 436 - for, 17 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, the applicant proposes to repeal the Article. 65. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will render amendments 7 and 8 irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 208 - for, 244 - against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 65 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants shall propose an amendment to point 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 438 - for, 18 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. Article 65 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The applicant shall propose that point 3 be deleted. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Ladies and gentlemen, please keep your voice down a little bit, 'cause I'm not hearing myself anymore. You're welcome. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 229 - for, 227 - against, abstained 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Applause]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1977, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 438 - for, 16 - against, abstained 3. The Sejm passed a law amending the Anti-drug Act and some other laws. We return to the review of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 1913 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 130 - for, 273 - against, abstained 54. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. We are returning to the review of item 7 of the agenda: a report by the Commission on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies with an urgent government proposal to support households in the cost of changing the standard of digital terrestrial broadcasting. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1996-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Radosław Fogel to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u412	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Today, at its meeting, the Sejm sent an urgent government bill to assist households with the costs of changing the standard of digital terrestrial television broadcasting to the Commission for Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies. The Commission at its meeting today considered the draft and asked the High Sejm to reject amendments 1 to 7 and amendment 9 and to accept amendments 8 and 10. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u413	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act 1996. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the first amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 1. Amendments 3 to 7 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 2. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 3 to 7 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 213 - for, 242 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 2 applicants shall propose a different wording of point 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 212 - for, 241 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 24 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 408 - for, 2 - against, with 47 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 24 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 225 for, 230 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 of the Act - Telecommunications law applicants propose a The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 442 - for, 11 - against, abstained 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1996, along with the amendments adopted, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 424 - for, 16 - against, stopped 17. The Sejm passed a law on the support of households to bear the costs of changing the standard of digital terrestrial television broadcasting. I would like to remind you that authorised entities have submitted requests to supplement the agenda: - Coalition Left Messenger Club by points: - Information from the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport on the use by the Institute of National Thought Heritage. Roman Dmowski and Ignacy Jan Paderewski funds from the Minister's grants from 2020-2021, in particular in the area of the Patriotic Fund, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the European Union and the consequences of the Constitutional Tribunal judgment of 7 October 2021, - Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition points: - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on compensation paid to entrepreneurs and farmers affected by the introduction of a state of emergency in the region of Podlasie Voivodeship and part of Lublin Voivodeship, - First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Family Benefits and the Law on Publicly-funded Healthcare, - Circle of the Polish Confederation on the point: First reading of the Polish draft law on amending the Act on official time in the territory of the Republic of Poland. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We are voting on the request for information on the National Thought Heritage Institute. Roman Dmowski and Ignacy Jan Paderewski. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against... [[Voices from the O.R.: It's not working.]] I can see that, ladies and gentlemen. Who's against it? It's working. Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 219 - for, 237 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed to the vote on the request for information on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the European Union and the consequences of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 7 October 2021. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 224 - for, 233 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed to the vote on the request for information on compensation paid to entrepreneurs and farmers affected by the introduction of a state of emergency in the region of Podlasie Voivodeship and part of Lublin Voivodeship. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 225 - for, 233 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed to the vote on the proposal for the first reading of the parliamentary bill amending the Act on official time in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 223 - for, 232 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed to the vote on the proposal for the first reading of the Parliamentary bill amending the Family Benefits Act and the Law on the provision of public-funded health care. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 222 - for, 233 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the Rules of Procedure: Election of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal (prints No 1982 and 1987). On the basis of the article. Paragraph 194. 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. 2 (2) 2 Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, as well as Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and paragraph 1. Point 3 (1) in conjunction with Article. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, a group of Members has nominated Mr Bogdan Święczkowski as Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. I would like to ask Mr Michael Wójcik to present the WW. candidacy. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, independent, impartial.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u414	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present Mr Bogdan Święczkowski's candidacy as judge of the Constitutional Court. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[An honor? Oh, come on.]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] Mr Bogdan Święczkowski was born in 1970 in Sosnowiec. He graduated from the Faculty of Law at the Jagiellonian University. He did a prosecutor's application in the District Attorney's Office in Tychy, then was appointed as an assistant of the District Attorney's Office in Sosnowiec. By decision of the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General of Hanna Suchocka was appointed as Prosecutor of the District Prosecutor's Office in Sosnowiec and worked there, and on 7 February 2001 by decision of the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General of Prof. Lech Kaczyński was appointed as Prosecutor of the District Prosecutor's Office in Katowice. He was sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office in Warsaw. In November 2005, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No he has been entrusted with the duties of Deputy Director of the Office for Organised Crime of the National Public Prosecutor's Office. At the same time, he was appointed by the decision of the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General of Zbigniew Ziobra to serve as Prosecutor of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Katowice. On 17 January 2009, he was entrusted with the duties of Director of the Office for Organised Crime of the National Public Prosecutor's Office. In 2006, Mr Bogdan Święczkowski was appointed as a member of the Prosecutor's Board of Prosecutors at the Attorney General and then as a member of the Programme Board of the National Centre for the Training of General Courts and Public Prosecutors. On 11 September 2006, he was appointed by a decision of the Minister of Justice, Prosecutor General Zbigniew Ziebrara, to the Prosecutor of the National Public Prosecutor's Office. On 12 September 2006, after his resignation as a prosecutor, the decision of the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Jarosław Kaczyński was entrusted to him with the duties of Head of the Internal Security Agency and on 19 October 2006 he was appointed Head of the ABW. In November 2007, he was appointed to the former post of Prosecutor of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the National Public Prosecutor's Office and was assigned to act as Prosecutor of the Office for Organised Crime. In January 2008, he was assigned to carry out his duties in the Office of Judicial Procedure of the National Public Prosecutor's Office. From 2010 to 2015 he was a retired prosecutor. [[And who cared?]] In the general elections in 2010, he was elected Councilman of the Sejm of the Silesian Voivodeship, and then in 2011 he obtained a parliamentary mandate. On 24 November 2015, he was appointed Under-Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice and on 7 March 2016 as National Prosecutor and First Deputy Prosecutor General. He's also the first vice-president of the Attorney General's Council. He directed his activities as a national prosecutor towards, among others. combating organised criminal groups of an armed nature, the most serious financial and economic crime, including the so-called. VAT crime and irregularities in the use of European Union funds, cybercrime and the most serious criminal crime. He's one of the founders and a member of Ad Vocem's Independent Prosecutors' Association. He is an academic lecturer at the University of Social and Media Culture in Toruń. He has completed postgraduate studies in European law. He is also the Chairman of the Scientific Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Public Prosecutor's Office and Law. He is co-founder and chairman of the Scientific Council of the Institute of Economic and Financial Experts in Łódź. As a national prosecutor, many national and international conferences were sponsored. He has participated in meetings with the general prosecutors of countries around the world, including chairing the general prosecutors of the Visegrad Group in Warsaw in 2019. [[Voice from the room: Novgorodska. He attended meetings in Nowogrodzka.]] Many times awarded: by the head of the Homeland Security Agency with a Honorary Badge. General Stefanaz Grotaż Rowecki for his efforts to protect the internal security of the country... [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] ...by the Chief of Police, a badge of the Golden Medal for Merit to the Police, by the Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration a Medal of the 100th anniversary of the Creation of the State Police, by the Director General of the Prison Service a gold medal for the 100th anniversary of the prison service, as well as by the Head of the Service of the Military Counterintelligence with the Gold Honorary Badge of the Service of the Military Counterintelligence. He was never a member of any political party. There has never been a professional or disciplinary action against him. [[Voice from the room: He was running with the PiS.]] It meets all formal requirements. It is distinguished by its great legal knowledge, rich scientific and professional experience. He is a very good candidate, and above all (the bell) will have no dilemma, whether the Polish constitution is more important than Community law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[He's not gonna get away with it anyway.]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u415	Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u416	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I admit we're gonna have a pretty unusual situation right now. I have long admitted that it is quite unusual that the committee's rapporteur, who was responsible for the nomination of the party of power, will be a representative of the opposition. But it calms me - not some change in customs, not a coincidence, just a verdict of the committee members. [[Applause]] The candidate for rapporteur seconded by the PiS club has not obtained a majority, and I am pleased to submit a report to the committee. [[The voice from the room: 14:14 was.]] But to the point. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights took stock of the proposal for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal yesterday, i.e. February 7th. During a nearly 2-hour, very substantive discussion, many interesting questions were raised in the context of the role that the candidate is applying for. The first question for your candidate as one of the faces of the so-called. Justice reforms were: causes of failure. 70 amendments to laws, and time limits in courts are getting longer, costs are getting higher. Another question. The candidate was to refer to why the statistics on the prosecution's activities had fallen so badly for the last six years. The number of pending cases is constantly increasing - more than 6 months. In 2014, High Izbo, it was 3780 cases per year, which lasted more than 6 months in terms of diagnosis. By 2020 this is 15 184 cases. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] We also asked why the number of investigations initiated was gradually decreasing. In 2014 this is 126 108 investigations, in 2020 only 92. We also asked your candidate if the D.A.'s budget was used to buy Pegasus. We asked if the application of this system is legal in Poland. We asked if, as a national prosecutor, he knew whether the Polish special forces had the opportunity to... [[Did he sign?]] ...using the Pegasus system. We asked about the independence of prosecutor Bogdan Święczkowski when in February 2019 he appeared in a prosecutor's limo on the street. Nowogrodzka in the course of an investigation into Silver and two towers. [[Thieves!]] Why not wait for the results of the audit on the purchase of the seat of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Warsaw at ul. Progress? [[You're reporting.]] 135 million PLN was spent on it, 70 million PLN for its renovation, without the control of the NIK moved. That is what Mr Szczerba asked. [[Quiet out there.]] There was still a question about an investigation into a arms dealer who still didn't pay $55 million for undelivered ventilators. [[Voice from the room: What did he say?]] The ski instructor, a colleague of Minister Szumowski, sold masks with false certificates for the amount of PLN 5 million. [[Voice from the room: Answers?]] [[Voice from the room: What does this have to do with the committee, sir?]] [[Voice from the room: That's not true.]] Then even the Ministry of Health called the D.A.'s office. [[Applause]] No one's charged to this day. [[It's hard to hear, isn't it? He's telling the truth.]] 5 million of the state's budget has not been recovered. That is what Mr Dariusz Joński asked. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But what did the candidate say?]] [[Voice from the room: Nothing.]] [[Voice from the room: It's not important.]] [[Voice from the room: Krzysiek, report.]] [[Voice from the room: Coward!]] In total, Mr Smishek asked why nearly 100 prosecutors were punished for defending their independence in conducting their investigations. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But what did the candidate say?]] Finally, a very relevant question from Mr Tomasz Zimoch... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But we are interested in the answers, not the question.]] ...who asked the candidate in which cases the Constitutional Tribunal ruled in a 5-person composition and in which three-member composition. [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To our surprise, dissatisfaction with any of these questions which I have just presented to the High House, the committee has not received a response. [[Applause]] [[A voice from the room: No!]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Positive opinion of the committee.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] What does that say? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can't you really afford a prosecutor to answer that?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u417	Mr. President, Mr. President. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Sit down!]] [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] Mr President, what is the recommendation of the committee? Go ahead. Time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u418	Already your marshal, of course I wanted to express it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u419	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u420	The recommendation of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights after the vote 15 - for, 14 - against is positive. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] [[You guys are gonna be so happy soon, soon.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u421	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members have joined the floor. I'm opening a discussion. On this item, I propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. [[You'd better raise your feed rates in prisons in advance.]] If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Mr Michał Wójcik, the Law and Justice have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u422	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! And that's pretty much what the discussion looked like yesterday, it was unsubstantiated. You should read the rules, and you should know that the prosecutor has to keep the secret of the investigation, and you wanted to get information from these investigations, you encouraged him to commit crimes... [[Voice from the room: No, it doesn't.]] ...only he's vigilant, and you don't know the rules. [[Applause]] [[And how did TVP get the information from the investigation?]] You accused him of being politicized. You just don't remember Mr. Kieres running from who's letter, sir? [[You're a liar.]] Civic Platform for Local Government, Civic Platform for Parliament. [[Applause]] Mr. D.A. Święczkowski was never a member of the political party, you forget that. [[Freedom Union.]] Why Bogdan Święczkowski? Because it's a symbol of the fight against the mob, organized crime groups, drug dealers, ladies and gentlemen. [[What did he do about Silver, liar?]] VAT, all you have to do is talk about VAT fraud. [[50,000. He got it in an envelope...]] 300 indictments in 2015, five times more in 2020, 1.5 thousand, ladies and gentlemen. He's the one who set up Internal Affairs so there wouldn't be any sacred cows. [[Voice from the room: You'll be sitting too.]] The judges and prosecutors who commit crimes are responsible just like any human being, and it's due. Bogdan Święczkowski. [[...Blide, who sent it?]] He also initiated the establishment of the Institute of Economic and Financial Experts in Łódź and many prosecutors and judges for it today, ladies and gentlemen, thank you. [[Applause]] [[He represents you. It's a fall like Masha.]] Yesterday you were talking about the Home Office of the National Attorney's Office. The symbol of your time is the powerlessness of the D.A.'s office and the absence of such a seat. The prosecution actually wandered around various institutions, and during his term of office, the seat of the National Public Prosecutor's Office was built. [[You're already on Ziobra's belt, President.]] Hundreds of investigations. In your day, people were thrown out on the street. When he became a national prosecutor, several hundred cases were launched, investigations to protect the poorest people. That's what you're forgetting, and that's why you don't want to vote for him. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Remember, and at the end of the day, it was during his term of office that an investigation into the murder of the Jaroszewicz marriage was launched. You should know that. You should know that.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u423	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u424	And a lot of others, like Miłoszyce...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u425	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u426	...and many other important investigations as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What about Blida?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u427	Thank you. I invite Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u428	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This Święczkowski candidacy is such a sad summary... [[Mr. Święczkowski.]] ...what you've done with the Constitutional Tribunal since 2015. From an institution that enjoyed trust, respect, authority, you brought her to the PiS president's diner. That's the truth. [[Applause]] [[Run, you coward, run.]] There are people out there whose professional experience taunts common sense. There are people impersonating judges. [[Applause]] There's an ex-prosecutor of martial law. People who hate the European Union. And from this perspective, the appointment of the current national prosecutor by the current authority is not surprising. [[Voice from the room: The gourmet comes out.]] This is the clear crowning of this process of disgusting, destroying the constitutional justice system in Poland. Mr Święczkowski, as few people will sign up in the history of the Polish state as a person who has put her hand to the extreme politicisation of the prosecutor's office, to make it an institution, which is such a political police of Kaczyński and Ziobra. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] He will sign up as the person who led the prosecution to defend the politicians of the United Right, dying even the greatest proceedings in the case of twin towers, in the case of envelope elections, in the case of bad ventilators. [[Voice from the room: Get your shit together.]] That's the situation. And the prosecutors who came to know the truth, you were stalking delegations, demotions. Citizens have been waiting years to be held accountable by the persecutors who harm their criminals. Things that go on for more than two years... At this point, the number of such cases increased by 400%. Mr. Święczkowski senses this threat very well because he knows that the power of the PiS is ending, and he knows that he needs to look for such a protective umbrella in the form of a judge's immunity. But I would like to warn you, Members of the PIS: Mr Święczkowski will not take you on this boat.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u429	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u430	Think about it, do you want to... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u431	Please, Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u432	In accordance with the rules, a candidate or a member of the Constitutional Tribunal should have high legal knowledge and moral qualifications. He should also be an independent person. Let's talk about this independence of Mr. Prosecutor Święczkowski when he ran from the Law and Justice list first to the Seym, then to Parliament. He was elected, he became a councilman, he was sent from these letters, from the letter of Law and Justice. What's more, he wanted to grab two magpies by the tail because he wanted to be a Member and a prosecutor, which, unfortunately, our constitution doesn't foresee. In this connection, Marshal Schetyna extinguished the mandate of Mr Święczkowski, because Mr Święczkowski, MEP, wanted to be a potentially independent prosecutor, while being a Member of Law and Justice. And he will continue to represent the Law and Justice. He does it and will do it all the time, also by sitting at the Constitutional Court. He'll defend the interests of the ruling party. Only that is why he is posted there by his promoter, with whom he goes all his life, Minister Zbigniew Ziobra. [[The president.]] And Zbigniew Ziobro has been dragging Mr. Święczkowski for years, promoting more people from the district from which Mr.Daddy Święczkowski, from Sosnowiec, was born, and this is not according to law and justice or according to Solidarna Polska kamotertwo. There's one last thing I need to remind you of. The person who was investigating the Barbara Blida case, who is responsible for the whole operation during which Barbara Blida's messenger was killed, has blood on her hands. He'll be a disgrace to be a member... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u433	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u434	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For starters, ad vocem to Minister Wójcik. You have to think about it, because until recently you said that Marian Banaś dealt with the VAT mob, so now think (Applause) and decide whether Marian Banaś dealt with the VAT mob or prosecutor Święczkowski. [[No, Donald Tusk.]] The National Public Prosecutor's Office led by Mr Bogdan Święczkowski for 6 years can be characterized by three letters P. Political, today too much evidence for this, is simply the governor of one of his political parties despite their appearances. She's the D.A.'s office. I was talking about that chronicity. There was a speech yesterday at the Justice Committee meeting. This data is gruesome, High Izbo. But it's also a pathological prosecutor's office. Consider Peter Fish, a nationalist, a chauvinist, a man who was sentenced to 10 months in a ruthless prison. But what did the D.A.'s office run by Mr. Święczkowski do? She thought it was too much of a sentence to be relieved because he didn't do anything that bad. What did Peter Fish do? He burned a Jew's dummy in public. It's unspeakable. According to our coalition club, Mr Bogdan Świączkowski's candidacy as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal is unacceptable. [[Święczkowskiego.]] This man has neither substantive nor moral qualifications to sit even in the court to which you have led today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u435	Thank you. Please, Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050. [[Voice in the courtroom: Marshal, what is the secretary doing, check it out.]] [[Voice from the room: Go ahead.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u436	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We are to decide whether to elect a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, the 15th judge. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shame. What's this?]] [[Voice from the room: What a crime.]] It is to be the person reported by the same parliamentary club. 15 judges of the Court of Justice on the award of the PiS. [[The Seym is the Seym, not the reading room.]] And the tribunal should not be party agenda. The word distributed six years ago was the word of the year. The word distributed should always be a word every year, because it is still close to Poles. The Court is a court of special competence. The Court is the body to deal with matters of major, particular importance and should therefore have special, exceptional persons in it. Such persons should be made up of the Constitutional Tribunal. Is that really the kind of person we're gonna choose today? The candidate is to replace Professor Leon Kieres at the Constitutional Court. It is not even appropriate to make comparisons when it comes to scientific achievements, publications, but also social trust. Shouldn't there be a tribunal of conscience in each of us, Members and Members? Is there really a special candidate facing us, guaranteeing impartial judgment in exceptional matters? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] At yesterday's Justice Committee meeting, as Mr Paszyk has already said, the candidate did not actually answer any questions. The lack of response is the answer that this candidate will not be independent, but will become a performer of political commands. Therefore, the Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 will of course not support this candidacy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u437	Thank you. And Mr Andrzej Rozenek, Polish Socialist Party. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u438	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It was April 25, 2007, early morning, the tragic death of Barbara Blida. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Are you laughing at this? Laugh. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the room: You're tearing her memory away.]] [[You're destroying her memory.]] We remember, and we know who's responsible. [[Voice from the room: We remember well.]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Who?]] April 25, 2007 Barbara Blida... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Say it again, just loudly. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But who answers?]] A minute ago, the messenger said she shot herself in the head. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: How do you know who answers?]] That's what you think of death. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Voice from the hall: Catholic.]] You can talk a lot about Bogdan Święczkowski and there are many sentences and very competent words here, but there is one decisive argument: responsibility, responsibility for this death also falls on him. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Shame and shame.]] For this reason, the PPS Parliamentary Circle will not support this candidacy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u439	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Let's move on to the vote. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights welcomed Mr Bogdan Święczkowski's appointment as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. According to Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be elected by an absolute majority of the Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Bogdan Święczkowski as judge of the Constitutional Court will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, it's not working.]] Who doesn't it work with? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: You're clear, Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: Please wait because the remote connection is broken.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, what is this?]] [[Voice from the room: What's going on?]] [[What is it, Marshal?]] [[Hairdresser.]] [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Complete the vote.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't cheat.]] [[We're gonna lose.]] [[You'll have to confess.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Complete the vote.]] What are you screaming about? Ladies and gentlemen, I know how many voices are remote. Calm down. [[Voice from the O.R.: What are you waiting for?]] Take it easy, ladies and gentlemen, take it easy. 454 Members voted. 233 for, 219 against, 2 abstentions. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The absolute majority elected Mr Bogdan Święczkowski as Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 2003). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print no. 2003 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Excuse me, is Mrs Marcelina Zawisza in the room? There isn't? 450 Members voted. 432 - for, 3 - against, abstained 15. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 8 February. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. If any of your fellow Members wishes to make a statement, please sign up. I close the list of Members who have been made to make statements. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 mins 33 hrs. 22 min 35]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u440	I'm reopening the session. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Gosievska, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 71 years ago, Major Zygmunt Szendzielarż Łupaszka, commander of the 5th General, was shot in the back of the head in a prison in Mokotów. The Vilnius National Army Brigade. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Some of the Members are up.]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Murderer!]] Together with them, the communists murdered three other officers: Colonel. Anthony Olechnovich ps. Pohorecki, pp. Lucjan Minkiewicz ps. Victor and Captain. Henryk Borowy-Borowski ps. Bumblebee. Their bodies, like the bodies of Polish officers as shamefully murdered by the Bolsheviks in 1940 in Katyn, were hidden by representatives of the communist apparatus of terror in anonymous pits of death. In September 1939, he fought for his homeland, commanding the 2nd squadron of his home regiment, part of the Vilnius Cavalry Brigade. After the attack by the Soviet Union on Poland, the Soviets arrested him during an attempt to enter Hungary. But he managed to escape from slavery. After unsuccessful attempts to re-enter Hungary, he fought in conspiracy, commanding military units in Vilnius, Bialystok and Pomerania. After the end of World War II, Major The schnitzer didn't put the gun down. He worked in a conspiracy in Białystok, then stayed in Warsaw, near Głubczyc and then hid in Osielec near Makow Podhalański. Here on June 30, 1948, he was arrested by officials of the Ministry of Public Security. During the trial, they tried to discredit Łupaška and show the soldiers of the anti-communist underground as bandits. This narrative still appears in some statements. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: Disgrace!]] Also here, High Izbo, in this room, from here. Even today we hear repeated communist lies discrediting cursed soldiers. Disgraceful! [[Voice from the hall: Away with the commune!]] Shame on Members for such conduct! [[Some Members chant: Away with the commune! Down with the commune! Down with the commune!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Major Szendzielarz referred to his subordinates from the underworld of independence: Soldiers, we are not a band, as the traitors and degenerate sons of our homeland call us. We are fighting for a sacred cause, for free, independent, just and truly democratic Poland. Long live freedom and brotherhood. Away with the traitors who sold the country and the nation to the Polish Soviets! For the faithfulness of the oath, the major and the other officers came to pay the highest price. On 2 November 1950 Szendzielarz was sentenced to death by the Military District Court in Warsaw. The physical murder on the four heroes was carried out by Alexander Drej at Rakowiecka on 8 February 1951 between hours. 19.55 a.m. 8:15 p.m. Major Szendzielarz was the last to be executed. Coming out of his cell, he said goodbye to his prison associates, saying, "God, gentlemen." In response he heard: Godspeed, Major. Hello and praise the heroes! [[Some Members chant: Hello and glory to the heroes! Hello and praise the heroes! Hello and praise the heroes!]] And disgrace to the traitors! [[Long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u442	Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: Away with the commune!]] Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. [[Oh, take it easy.]] [[Voice from the room: Traitors!]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u443	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, regardless of political beliefs and views, parties should have a minimum sense of responsibility for future generations of Poles and Poles. We should all express our firm opposition to changes in the Education Law prepared under the leadership of the Minister of Education and Science, Przemysław Czarnka. In the event of the entry into force of these new school rules, pupils and teachers will be subject to the central authority represented by educational curators by a political appointment. All knee - pushed regulations will only make the principals administrators of school buildings. All of these proposed changes aim only to limit students' intellectual thoughts and freedoms and to exclude innovation from educational institutions. Stop for such changes that exclude the freedom of school thinking by students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u444	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u445	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentarians of Law and Justice submitted a bill to the Polish Parliament to take away the Kopernika Prince in Torun the priceless 15th-century manuscript in order, as the media inform, to hand it over by the Polish Prime Minister to the Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán during the election campaign held in Hungary on 3 April. This manuscript is one of the most beautiful and valuable European manuscripts from the 15th century, which, despite the war, were preserved in Polish collections. Since the 16th century it has been part of the Polish inseparable and indivisible resource, which is a regional and cultural heritage associated with Torun, today also with the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. For two terms of office, I had the privilege of being Deputy Marshal of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship responsible for the culture and national heritage and together with the councillors of the Left to ensure that no Bydgoszcz or Toruń library or museum would lose even the smallest part of the collection. Therefore, it is shocking to me that a group of Members may appear in the Polish Sejm, that there may be a government that is jointly trying to de facto plunder invaluable library exhibits for its political interests and for political distribution, trying to mask low flights with propaganda about international friendship. In this case, I have submitted a statement to the Prime Minister and to the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, and today I have the following questions to the Prime Ministers from this stand. To the Prime Minister of Gliński: Did they participate or support the author of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage or any of the institutions under the authority of the Prime Minister? If so, how much did the taxpayers pay for the Ministry's participation in the preparation of these documents? The second question, to Mr Morawiecki: Did the Prime Minister know that the requirement for the transfer to the National Museum on Wawel of the armor of Zygmunt II Augustus was to repay Prime Minister Orbán with a manuscript owned by the Copernican Prince? And third, to both masters: What other invaluable library and museum treasures located in local institutions of Polish culture are planned by the Government of Law and Justice and Solidarna Polska for the purposes of nationalization and political distribution? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u446	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Robert Obaz, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u447	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! The beginning of this year cannot be counted as successful. Law and Justice on the occasion of the new year gave residents and residents a way of order - the biggest increase in history. We are dealing with the largest inflation for 20 years, and rising loan instalments, gas and electricity prices have a negative impact on domestic budgets, as well as on the financial situation of local governments. PiS also managed to fund wage reductions that no other government has ever been able to fund. Many social groups have been subject to a wholesale wage reduction. They lose teachers or uniforms. Entrepreneurs are also losing their jobs, and therefore their employees are losing their jobs. But most lose the poorest and most in need Poles, for whom ubiquitous increases are an impossible barrier. The current state of affairs also translates into the financial situation of local governments and subordinates. As a result of the introduction of the Polish Deal, there is a situation when residents and residents have to give up some necessary goods and services due to increasing costs. The consequences of the introduction of the Polish Load are seen on almost every level. An example is Legnica, lying in my constituency. In the schedule of the last session of the City Council in Legnica, there was a draft resolution denying parents the possibility of using subsidies for non-public crèches and clubs of the baby. The reasons for such a decision were the avalanchely increasing cost of maintaining urban units and the need to look for savings to cover increased costs of wages, energy or gas. The question arises: How can a responsible family policy be pursued when young parents cannot even be guaranteed support in childcare? Not that way, you shouldn't look for savings on planes like this. Polish Load, or maybe expensive order has been reduced by 14%-15% revenue to the budget of cities such as Legnica. Cities that have so far had high tax revenues per capita and provided additional services, have something to give up, so they are in a better position than cities with less wealth, with less budgetary flexibility, as we see in this case. The abolition of aid for non-public crèches and clubs in order to find funds for current expenditure is unacceptable. I appeal for caution in such situations and to meet the needs of the inhabitants, to meet the needs of Poles and Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u448	Thank you, sir. Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u449	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Today is my 50th birthday. All those who wanted to give me flowers or sweets, I asked for one thing: help with the fundraiser for psychiatric hospitals, especially children's wards. We collect what hospitals specifically ask for. I thought there'd be requests for toys, maybe some elements of decor to improve your mood and enjoy your stay. Needs: sheets, pajamas, dishes. This is the state of the hospital equipment, especially the Warmia-Mazury voivodship. The collapse of Polish psychiatry reaches every sphere, including material one. There are often scandalous deficiencies in the equipment: outdated lockers, beds, no mentioned dishes, pajamas or bed linens. For the rest of the more pressing problems, let the headlines of the recent weeks witness: "Sales full of young suicides. Doctors warn that Polish youths are experiencing increasing mental problems, that there is no one to treat children after suicide attempts. The only ward locked down, the doctors exhausted. What do the authorities say? You're gonna carve it. Here, on average, once a week, a child wants to kill himself. There are only nine children's psychiatrists in the voivodship. The problems in which we are trying to help by organizing the collection seem extremely mundane and prosaic in the face of these reports. Many times I alarmed from this speaker about the fatal situation of child psychiatry in Poland, including in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. Begging appeals collide with the wall of silence and indifference. I would like to address the Minister of Health and the President of the Council of Ministers once again: Gentlemen, it is time for immediate action. We're one step away from tragedy. Hospital emergency services record record children's receptions with mental problems. In nephrology, children's records from drug overdose. Another one - in psychiatric wards, after suicide attempts. When are you finally gonna deal with real problems? I'm terrified of what brings reports of the next few days. Today is my 50th birthday. I do not wish for anything on this day as for every child in Poland to be able to rely on quick and professional help to do everything so that they do not have to go to the SOR at all. Or psychiatric wards. Nothing changes in clinical psychiatry, and prevention kills, among others. by taking money on the phone trust for children and young people, leaving children traumatized by remote science, spreading hate speech towards the young LGBT. The year 2022. The psychiatry units of children and adolescents stop receiving patients. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Doctors, medical personnel are exhausted and exhausted. Basic things are missing in the wards: bed linen, pajamas. Poland, 2022 And I wish my children in my country would feel safe so they wouldn't commit suicide so they wouldn't have to fight for their lives. That is what I call for today and every day until the situation improves. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u450	Thank you, Member. I wish you well and your dreams come true. [[Thank you, I'm counting on your support in this situation.]] Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u451	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have been familiar with the information campaign of the foundations and associations of patients associated with the agreement of cardiological organizations, whose aim is to draw attention to the ongoing epidemic of heart failure and the tragic situation of people affected by this disease. Estimates say that in Poland, between 1 million and 1.2 million people suffer from heart failure. Every year 142,000 die. people, and every hour - 16 people. Unlike in other European countries, oncology is not the first cause of death for Poles. Heart failure is the direct cause of one in 10 deaths in our country. Since the diagnosis of heart failure, four in 10 patients have not lived for 5 years. It is worth noting that only patients with lung cancer have worse survival prognosis compared to oncology. In Poland, treatment of heart failure diseases is conducted with a huge proportion of hospitalizations, which generate 96% the cost of treatment. A two - year pandemic and its accompanying limited access to hospital care have made the situation of heart failure even worse. Changing tragic statistics is possible and requires appropriate systemic action and broadening of therapeutic options, including modern medicines such as flozin, which according to clinical trials reduce mortality, hospitalization rate - about 20% and prolong the patient's life. It is also reasonable to introduce a comprehensive organisation of care for this group of patients. Flozin is registered and widely used in Europe in type II diabetes and heart failure. In Poland, flozin is refunded only for a narrow group of patients with type II diabetes. Representatives of patient organisations and associations associated with the agreement of cardiological organisations call on the Minister of Health for the reimbursement of flozin as a modern treatment for heart failure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u452	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u453	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland, about 14.5 million tons of municipal waste are produced each year. In this mass, about 4.5 million are called so-called. residual waste and, in fact, the only possible use is thermal disposal. And it would be good, ladies and gentlemen, if we could do that. How much can we actually do? 1.2 million t in nine incineration plants. An additional 1-1.2 million in cementing as RDF, 2.5 million t per year unfortunately goes to landfills. Not good, ladies and gentlemen, that's what happened. Unfortunately, in 2016, our law has changed and we are very strict, as are Germany, who forbids the possibility of using other than just and exclusively energy. So, ladies and gentlemen, since 2016, we have already had 10 million t of faction 19 12 12, which we should burn, but we have no place to burn. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, looking at our commitments, but above all at the fact that in 2035 we should store only 10% in landfills. municipal waste, and we store 43%... So what do we do? Ladies and gentlemen! It's a shame we wasted a lot of time and didn't create thermal waste disposal facilities, just like in many cities. I am from Szczecin and with us the incinerator is practically in the center of the city, but the technology used is so high that one can say that to some extent, of course, except CO Therefore, our priority with such sharpenings should be that we build more of these installations. We don't need nine of them, we need at least 20 of them. Not to mention other countries - Germany has 68 of them. We can't decide what to do, this 10 million today is going to be 12.5 million in a year, for 2 years - 15 million tons. We do not export, we do not sell it, we do not try to burn in other countries, but these heaps: 19, 12, are behind on Polish landfills. That's why I'm talking about it, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can start doing something, start making decisions, because it's all about the pocket of ordinary Kowalski, who pays for the garbage more and more. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause if the plant doesn't burn down, unfortunately, storage has to pay for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u454	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna Wojciechowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u455	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Madame, I also wish you the most heartfelt wishes of your birthday. Make your dreams come true. Ladies and gentlemen! The Pole pays. I present to you a list of taxes, increases and new burdens prepared since PiS's takeover of power and introduced by PiS: bank tax on loans, insurance policy tax, commercial tax on purchases, repealing the VAT reduction adopted by the previous parliament, i.e. by the Civic Platform government, raising VAT from 8% to 23% on selected products, invoking Museum Nights and other events promoting cultural institutions, excise duty on e-cigarettes and so-called. Innovative products, tightening excise duty on cars imported from abroad, taxation of wind farms, freezing of PIT thresholds, introducing a third rate of PIT of 36%, elimination of linear PIT for entrepreneurs under the motto of solidarity duty, deprive many groups of taxpayers of the possibility to benefit from 50% of the cost of income, abolishing the limit on pension contributions, taxing of cash contributions to companies, taxation of income from inherited assets, taxation of income from assets received as a donation, limiting the possibility to include in the tax costs of expenditure incurred on interest, fees, bonuses or commissions on loans and loans, limiting the possibility to include in the tax costs of expenditure incurred on trade marks or licences, eliminating the possibility of reducing operating revenues by capital revenues, narrowing down the list of revenues, income, for participation in a capital company exempt from taxation, an increase in the transitional fee, power charge for electricity, fuel levy, water levy, quality fee for the technical examination of the vehicle, additional charge if the technical examination of the vehicle is carried out after the deadline, bottom charge on the dock, recycling fee, charge for entry into the city centre, increase of parking charges. 2021: sugar tax, so-called tax Monkeys, CIT taxation of limited companies, rain tax, dog tax, trade tax again, fair and spa tax, plastic tax, coal levy, digital tax, increase of the RTV subscription. The year 2022 is unknown. The Polish Government is so chaotic that no one knows how much tax will have to pay. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Surely there has been an increase in energy and gas prices, interest rates and health tax have been raised, please countries, otherwise called a health contribution. So much for our difficult times when there's so much inflation and we're supposed to be living so wonderfully. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u456	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u457	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 1970, 52 years ago, it was decided to build a modern refinery in Gdańsk. The state-of-the-art part. Europe's facility became the first production facility in the Polish People's Republic based on Western technologies and licenses, a plant independent of Soviet oil and technology. Let me remind you that the Gdansk Refinery was adapted to the processing of oil imported from Iraq, Iran and Brend oil from the North Sea. The decision to build a refinery in Gdańsk and create a fleet of modern tankers was dictated by the desire to reduce Poland's dependence on the supply of energy raw materials from the Soviet Union. In 2022, more than half a century after the decision to build the Gdansk Refinery, the investment to increase the energy security of Poland, the government of Mateusz Morawiecki decided to sell to the Saudi investor shares in the Lotos group and - and that is the most shocking - decided to sell 80% fuel stations of the Lotos Group Hungarian company MOL. Specifically, it was decided to sell 417 Lotus stations. For anyone who follows the market for liquid fuels and petroleum products, it is no secret that the buyer, the Hungarian MOL, has strong ties with Russia, for example, through the exploitation of deposits in Russia and Kazakhstan. So we have seen a time when a strategic investment to reduce dependence on the Soviet Union is now under the control of a company from a country which is the largest European ally of Putin's Russia. Turning away from political issues and strange bows towards a company from an undemocratic country, from the interest of the Treasury, there is no justification for the sale of Lotus. The basic condition for acquisitions and mergers is to gain additional market share, at least that's what all schools and economics manuals say. Patriotism is not only the laying of flowers under monuments on the day of national holidays, but patriotism is also economic patriotism, economic patriotism. The economic sense of the decision on Lotus's plot is questioned not only by specialists, but also - and this is probably the most important - by Lotus Group employees. People are the most valuable resource of any company. These people are protesting, protesting at the headquarters of their company, refusing to share what they've been building for decades. The strategic plantation of the Polish oil sector, a company located among the 20 largest companies on the Stock Exchange, is a betrayal of national interest. [[Applause]] The takeover of the Lotus Group by PKN Orlen is the blow that the party of power in Pomerania has struck. It's the blow that the party of power took to the place where Solidarity was born. It's a blow to a region where local government officials don't bend their necks to power, which at all costs aims at centralization (the Bell) and manual control. No matter what happens to Lotus, it's an attack on tradition, it's also an attack on the Kashubian language, because it's recently decided not to finance learning Kashubian in Pomeranian schools. This will never be forgotten by the people of Pomerania. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u458	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Maciej Kopiec, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u459	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This morning, once again, Marshal Witek decided to speak on behalf of the entire House, despite clear opposition from the Parliament. This time, she honored the memory of the war criminal Zygmunt Szendzielarzy zŁupaszki. There is no permission to worship cursed soldiers, among whom there were many bandits. It was undoubtedly Lupusz. The glorification of war criminals not only harms their victims, but puts criminals in the same line with soldiers, behind whom the right side of this room is a wall. Article ¿As a righteous Polish soldier who appeared in June 1944 in the press organ of the Vilnius District Command, he defined moral principles which should be followed by AK soldiers. He rejected the possibility of repression of civilians, women and children, recognizing such acts as shameful. The scoundrel has disgraced the National Army uniform many times. In June 1944, soldiers under the command of Lupashka rallyed the Lithuanian village of Dubinka, killing 68 people, including women and children. In May 1945 in the vicinity of Białystok, the soldiers of Lupaszko burned down three Belarusian villages and murdered several people, only a few of whom could be proved that they were engaged in communist activities and were members of the PPR. First squadron led by Lupak 5. The Vilnius Brigade set fire to the village of Potok. The people say that the Orthodox people, because when they smoked, the soldier asked where the Catholics lived. Three kids died. Historians have proved that the war criminal Lupaszko and his troops, responsible for the death of about 100 people, did not hesitate to rape and kill innocent people. Polish officer murdering women, children and old men, the Polish torturer became a symbol of worship in this House this morning. I do not agree to this and I do not agree to it as Silesian, mentioning the tragedy of the Upper Silesian and Polish oppressors who, in criminal cooperation with the Red Army, sought to exterminate my people in Silesian lands just after World War II. I express solidarity with the Orthodox minority, with the Belarusian minority, with the Lithuanian minority, and with people who remember the victims of Lupaska and his similar creatures. I pay tribute to all the people they murdered. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u460	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Krutul, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u461	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Last year there was much talk about an extremely important investment for the Podlaskie voivodship, namely the construction of the Białystok - Augustów expressway. The importance and need of this high-speed road connecting two towns may be reflected by the fact that many actors and people involved in the project, including submissive Members and Senators, who have joined forces over party divisions to fight for this investment. However, the protests of the Podlasie parliamentarians, local governmentmen and inhabitants of the region were of no use. The Government's 2030 National Road Construction Programme (with a view to 2033) did not plan to build a road from Bialystok to Augustów in investment tasks until 2030. The S8 road from Białystok to Augustów was intended to be a link between Via Baltica and Via Carpatia roads, which would give it strategic importance. Nevertheless, the government has not decided to implement this investment. For Suwałczan, this means extending travel to the center of the country and further traveling not too safe in the current shape of the Suwałki - Augustów - Białystok road. The current state of the route between Białystok and Augustow leaves much to be desired, which is complained not only of the inhabitants of my region, but also of drivers travelling to reach further centres. The continuous presence of trucks and TIRs, which travel between 5 and 6 000 by this route, is not affected by the improvement of conditions. a day. There is much talk about the fact that road investments need to be implemented where they are most needed. That's what we're dealing with here. The transit and truck section should already be modernised and adapted to the current realities in order to ensure comfort and safety for travellers. The Białystok - Augustów route was an excellent combination of important centers in the voivodship. It is needed for residents, entrepreneurs and tourists. It is an extremely important investment for the Podlaskie voivodship, which should start as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u462	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u463	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This may seem strange, but for many years after the end of World War II, there was a dispute over the Holocaust of denial by various nations and communities of the extermination of Jews. In order to prevent the Holocaust from being definitively recognised as a historical event, the United Nations General Assembly adopted on January 27th 2005 the date on which the Red Army of the Auschwitz-Birkenau camp, the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims, took place on 1 November 2005. This date unfortunately connects the Holocaust and my city of Piotrków Trybunalski, because in it on October 8, 1939, the German mayor decided to create a ghetto, the first ghetto on Polish lands, the first ghetto in Europe. This Piotrkowskie was not surrounded by walls like those in Łódź or Warsaw. On November 20, 1939, the Jewish district established on a large part of the Old Town was surrounded by columns with barbed wire. The ghetto was closed not only to Jews, but also to Poles who had a Jewish grandmother back to the third generation. Piotrkowscy Jews were forced to pay this Dreschel a contribution of 15 thousand. zł. It was an invention of this criminal, and the funds collected were in his pocket. The government of the ghetto, the council of the elders, the Judenrat and the police were appointed quite quickly. Despite the constant persecution of life in the Jewish district, as far as it may be said, it was stable. Regardless of the daily struggle to provide food for still arriving from the surrounding cities, towns and villages of the Jews in the ghetto, lessons were organized for children and young people. A substitute for social assistance for the poorest was launched. The ghetto dwellers were helped by the pythons. There are many trees in the Yad Vashem Institute in Jerusalem with the names of Poles considered righteous among the Nations. They're like a doctor. Antoni Ostaszewski, Stanisław Węłarski or Stefania Szczygielska. They delivered it for the ghetto wires needed drugs there. The two liaisons of the National Army Helena Migacz and Janina Kowalczyk led colonel out of the ghetto. Dr. Józef Geller, Piotrkowski's doctor, 25th Infantry Regiment. It is worth remembering that Poland was the only country occupied by the Germans, where death was threatened for helping Jews. The breakthrough of 1941 and 1942 was a period when the ghetto was as dense as possible. According to conservative estimates, historians lived There's over 20,000 in there. Jews in about 200 houses. There used to be 5 to 10 people living in one room. The entry of the United States into the war in December 1941 broke Germany's hands. At the conference in Wannsee, the leaders of the Third Reich decided the final solution to the Jewish issue. To death factories in Auschwitz-Birkenau, Chelmno on the Rhine, Treblinka began transports with people. In October 1942, the liquidation of the ghetto began. One should mention the actions of Mr. August Kristman, who worked with the last rabbi Piotrkov. Some say he even saved 5,000. older brothers in faith. Commemorated by Spielberg Schindler only 1,000. Those who survived the Holocaust have spread all over the world. I don't think there's anyone left tonight. But their children and grandchildren remember. We have to, too. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u464	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u465	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Last Friday, February 4, 2022, the Centre for the Perfection of Educational Personnel in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski celebrated the 20th anniversary of its activity. Celebrations of a solemn nature have been combined with a very interesting session devoted to ethical problems in the teaching profession and the work of the school principal. A number of teachers took part in a hybrid session. The Centre for Excellence of Educational Personnel was established in Starachowice in February 2002. Its founder and first director was Mr Edward Złobecki. Following his premature death, the centre was headed by Mr Violetta Ćwik in 2007. The CDKO 20 years of work are numerous completed postgraduate studies, qualification courses, improvement courses, training of pedagogical councils, workshops and seminars, including tasks commissioned, among others. by the Świętokrzyskie curator of education in Kielce and the bodies leading schools and educational institutions. Thanks to this, the Center for Excellence of Educational Personnel has become a recognizable, solid brand among teacher training institutions. This undoubted success is the result of the work of both the management and the staff of this institution. The team of staff at the Education Center has extensive experience in organizing different forms of education and training of directors, teachers and educational staff. The best evidence of the effectiveness of education is graduates of institutions, which are already almost 40 thousand. CDKO's activities are an example of a smooth operation that translates into common benefits. On the occasion of a beautiful anniversary, I wish you the Director and the entire staff of the Education Centre in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski to implement the adopted plans and intentions, many new initiatives and that the CDKO in the field of education of educational staff continue to associate with the high quality of teaching. And, of course, the next great anniversaries. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u466	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Władysław Kurowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u467	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo! Deportations of Polish citizens into the Soviet Union are one of the most tragic cards of our history. Deportations were one of the main tools in Soviet hands. They were used to fight Poles and Polishness. The Gehenna Summit of thousands of our citizens dates back to 1940-1941. The first mass deportation began on 10 February 1940 and covered over 140 thousand. persons. In total, until the turn of May and June 1941. The Soviets forced to move more than 320 thousand east. Polish citizens. Deportations were also carried out on a smaller scale, even at the end of the war, in 1944-1945, and after the end of it, in 1951-1952. The course of deportation was usually the same: brutal and ruthless. Hitting on the door with rifles in the middle of the night, screaming, beating, insulting and humiliating. The lament and the crying of women and the screaming of children. At one point, people lost their whole life's work. Their life, although physically lasting, actually ended at the time of the excavation. These criminal actions were an unimaginable tragedy of several hundred thousand Polish citizens who already died on their journey in cattle cars during weeks of transport. Those who managed to survive the murderous road were faced with hard physical work in extremely difficult conditions, usually at the logging of taiga or in mines. The rest of the tragedy was complemented by tragic living conditions, food, practically lack of medical care and incredible sadism of the guards. As a result, many died. Those who continued to live were often envious of those who left. Those tragic events were also attended by the people of Myślenice and those associated with the Thinkers. In the book Ziemowita Kalinowski, a historian and researcher of local history, we read: on February 10, 1945, arrests began in the Myślenice co-workers of the Home Army. Then Marian Ponurski, Marian Kalinowski, Julian Sala, Konrad Gwoźdz and Kazimierz Syrek were arrested. Kazimierz Syrek, who was transported to Kazakhstan, was separated from this group for unknown reasons. That's where he died at camp. The others were transported to Wadowice, where they were transported to Sanoka, where transport was formed. The transport from Sanoka about cold and hunger lasted over a month. From Siberia, Konrad Gwoź and Marian Ponurski returned - only after almost 2 years. Marian Kalinowski died in the Lagoon. It is a small piece of tragic works of the inhabitants of Myślenice, who have entered into the history (The Bell) which Poles have prepared for the Soviet oppressors. On the 82nd anniversary of the first mass deportation, which took place on February 10, 1940, I would like to recall the memory of all those citizens who were affected by this terrible tragedy. Both those from thinking land and those from other areas of the Republic of Poland. Hello their memory! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u468	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna Ewa Cicholska, Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. There isn't either. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u469	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Every day we hear about the growing chaos associated with the introduction of the so-called. Polish Load and increased taxation of further groups of Poles. However, let us not forget that Polish Load is also a big loss for local governments, i.e. for us, residents. E.g. City of Gdansk since this year loses PLN 270 million annually due to income from PIT tax, that is 25% annual income from this tax. The government, by telling us that this is compensation, introduced a centrally controlled program, just like for the Polish People's Republic, the Strategic Investment Programme, where it splits the money for these investments, but the money taken from the local governments before, and after being considered. No rules, no rules. No PRL bis. The city of Gdańsk has submitted five applications for funding of PLN 107 million for investments for the second recruitment of this centralist programme. One, the first stage of New Świętokrzyskie in Gdańsk. It is a key and expected road investment for the residents of the corked southern districts of Gdańsk, where Gdansk is developing the most intensively. Two, buy 14 electric buses. Government representatives have repeatedly encouraged the purchase of electric cars, the entire electric rolling stock. I hope we will not be disappointed, especially as these buses would meet the requirements of the European Union, environmental protection and zero-emissions. Three, reconstruction of the street. Łąkowa on the section from ul. Podwale Przedmieście do ul. Long Gardens - it is a reconstruction of the surface, a pedestrian and car park. Four, reconstruction of the street. Tourist in Gdańsk on the island of Sobieszewska. The implementation of the investment will allow for the development of tourist-service and night-gastronomic functions in this beautiful tourist destination. That too, let's not forget, there are extra jobs. Five, construction of the Youth Sport Centre in Gdansk at the GOKF athletic stadium at ul. Grunwald. Many years ago, it was a great place for young people to play sports. Now it needs to be thoroughly modernised. In the first selection of applications for this programme, Gdansk reported three investments of strategic importance for residents. Unfortunately, the government granted funding for only one project - reconstruction of the street. Kielnieńska in Gdansk Osowa. Of course, I, as a councilwoman from Osowa, used to be very happy about it (the bell). But it's too bad it's not all of them. As part of the current selection of proposals, Gdansk makes the five that I have calculated, hoping to have a positive reaction to them by the Minister. Of course, this will not compensate for lost income from PIT, but even though it will alleviate the negative effects on the municipality's budget. Therefore, I kindly appeal to the government that when granting funds under the 2nd and 3rd edition of the Strategic Investment Programme, it should be based on an objective assessment of projects and the need of residents...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u470	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u471	...not an assessment of the support for the ruling party in the locality, as has unfortunately been done in previous government programs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u472	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Aleksander Forczynski, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Piotr Adamowicz, Civic Coalition. [[Thank you, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u473	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Staff of the Sejm Chancellery! I'm gonna allow myself a little more relaxed due to a rather late time. What's a keel? This is the structural axis of the watercraft that forms the basis for structural strength of the hull. In the shipbuilding language, the keel position means the completion of the first stage of the ship's construction and the starting of the hull assembly. More than 4 years ago, in Szczecin, with the participation of party and government elites, PiS was launched with a keel pump under a national ferryBatory region. Along with the keel, the propaganda machine started to rise from the knees of the shipbuilding industry. Professionals in the quiet were bursting with laughter. Officially, they tried to stop them from smiling. For how can one disagree with the idea of a truly Polish ferry, the King of the Baltic, which will be the subject of the envy of Europe and perhaps not only? Today, with up to 4 years, the keel symbol is a keel in ruins, and the national ferry has not even become a virtual being because there is no project. Can the famous keel go from scrap to scrap for a price of PLN 2 per kilogram? Blanket symbol for scrap metal? The famous satirist Henryk Sawka sees the place of the symbol keel in the Socrealistic Art Gallery in Kozłówka. In the background of the symbol keel you could put a replica of the bear from Stanisław Barei's film. Following Sawyer's suggestion, however, I propose a modification. In museums there is room not only for inkunabulas, paintings, sculptures, swords, wings of husaria. There is also room for technical thought. Therefore, I ask Professor Piotr Gliński, Minister of Culture and National Heritage, because the keel is an inheritance, to consider the exhibition of the keel - a symbol in the upcoming monumental Museum of History of Poland. It's an exemplum, an example of a powerful and outstanding work, that politicians shouldn't get involved in the construction of ships, because they just don't know what they're doing. Thank you and have a good night. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u474	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Waldemar Andzel. There isn't. Mr Frederick Kapinos, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u475	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to dedicate my message to the charity which is carried out within the sanctum of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Carolina in Fun and definitely keeps up with reality and its problems. I also observe that more and more people come to services in this sanctuary, including from outside the parish. Then some stay to talk to the clergy, which translates into a good and respectful relationship with the faithful, but not only because there are many other good and important things to play with. One of them is the post-accident care and the development of systematic care of road traffic accident victims, which is done through great determination and courage in setting priorities, which are the health and life of all road users. The Fun Transition Association is the only place in Poland that gathers people who experience post-accident trauma, pain after loss of loved ones in road accidents and facing a new life situation. It is the seed of a place that wants to deal holistically with the victims of road accidents, their families, as well as the perpetrators themselves, providing support in the process of adaptation, coping with stress, pain and suffering. The organization has in its work many years of practical assistance to victims and developed mechanisms for providing professional post-accident assistance. Hence the initiative taken a few years ago to build in the town of Fun Centre for Trauma Treatment. In the assumptions accompanying the establishment of the centre, it is intended to be a place that will allow people who are struggling with traumatic experiences to recover from physical, mental and socio-occupational health, especially as a result of road accidents or violence. The Transition Association has been trying to create such a centre in Zabawa for many years, i.e. in a place to which for many years people have come from all over Poland looking for help after road accidents. Psychological workshops and meetings with families of victims of such accidents are held here throughout the year. The idea of helping victims and building a trauma treatment centre has been supported for years by the Institute of Automotive Transport, whose representatives since the beginning, since the creation of the Monument of the Passage, the only monument in Poland dedicated to the memory of victims of road accidents, are present every year in Fun. It is worth taking advantage of the huge experience of the Passage and the already functioning foundation of the centre to help all those who ask for it each year. They come from all over Poland on the World Day of Remembrance of Road Accident Victims with great hope of hearing their requests for help. They're victims of accidents, their families, the families of deaths, the families of perpetrators and the perpetrators themselves. As the pilgrims emphasized in their conversations, it is returned to this place as a well-known, good and important book. However, this place would not have been so well seen if it had not been (the bell) serving Fr. curator Zbigniew Shostak and Fr. Vicar Sebastian Sjojka, whose commitment to all these projects and their proper implementation are indescribable. Honourable priests, you are the heroes of our modern history. I thank you not only for these beautiful works, but also for all kindness towards those in need. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u476	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u477	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, a call has been made to the European Commission by scientists and socialists from all over the world - an appeal to stop the construction of a harmful wall at the Polish-Belarusian border, which will have disastrous consequences for the nature of the Białowieża Forest. In just one week, 1600 scientists from all over the world signed under the open scientific community. More than 160 environmental organisations and social movements from six continents signed the appeal, and the inhabitants of the Białowieża Forest, who collect signatures under their petition on this issue, gathered 26 thousand. signatures. These signatures are collected all the time. Scientists and socialists turn to the European Commission because the Polish government does not listen to scientific arguments, does not listen to substantive arguments, does not listen to social arguments in this matter. They ask for all possible steps to stop the construction of a wall that will destroy a unique nature, harm local communities and will not solve the humanitarian crisis. They note that building a wall on the Polish-Belarusian border will have a disastrous impact on six areas of Nature 2000, including the most valuable natural object in Poland and Europe - the Białowieża Forest. It is the best preserved lowland forest in Europe, not only in Poland. The wall will be a permanent barrier which will affect in particular the population of rare and protected species, limiting their movement and consequently the flow of genes. Animals such as bison, elk, deer or wolves will be particularly affected, and the lynx may disappear completely from the Białowieża Forest. There will be fragmentation of habitats, which is currently one of the main causes of biodiversity loss. There is no doubt that the wall and its construction and the infrastructure accompanying it will contribute to the destruction of the ecosystem that we should protect. Unfortunately, in the planning process of this investment there was no assessment of its impact on nature, on the Białowieża Forest, which is a violation of the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 of the Habitats Directive. At a time of biodiversity crisis and the sixth great extinction of species, we cannot afford to lose or deteriorate the condition of such valuable ecosystems as the Bialowieza Forest. This is a common heritage of all of us, also included in the UNESCO World Heritage List, which we can lose after the construction of this wall. [[♪ The bell ♪]] By building more dams, we will not solve the humanitarian crisis that is taking place at the border. Even if we put a wall around the entire Polish border, we will not escape the fact that the climate crisis and its consequences increase dramatically the number of people seeking security and fleeing armed conflicts, hunger and poverty. Migration won't stop...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u478	Go ahead and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u479	...and that is why Poland needs a migration policy based on respect for human rights and protection of life and health, not on oppressive and harmful solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u480	Thank you, Member. And the last statement, Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u481	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll make a statement on the 80th anniversary of the National Army. 80 years ago, on 14 February 1942, General Władysław Sikorski of the Polish Victory Service and the Armed Forces established the National Army. The first commander of the Home Army was General Stefan Rowecki, Chief of the ZWZ. The National Army was a phenomenon on a global scale and the largest underground army in Europe. No other occupied country had such well-organized intelligence, counterintelligence, communication and diversion, which was an unprecedented achievement, because Polish conspiracy movements originated from various, often oppositional political backgrounds. Apart from being famous for spectacular diversions, the National Army seized the minds and souls of Poles and indicated a certain manner of behavior towards the German occupier. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-08-sejm-48-1.u482	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 9 February 2022, by 9 February 2022, at 3 p.m. 9. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 34]]
