ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on the secretaries of today's sittings Piotr Sak and Rafał Bochenk, who will lead the minutes and the list of speakers. Piotr Sak will be the secretary in the first part of the session. I consider the minutes of the 49th session of the Sejm to be accepted. I would like to inform you that on the basis of the article. 198a paragraph. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to hold a 50th meeting of the Sejm using electronic means of communication enabling distance communication. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed to the quorum, so I ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the sitting of the Sejm. You're welcome. The meeting shall be attended by 442 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in the territory of that country, together with the self-correction, prints No 2069 and 2069-A. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection!]] Sir, you'd like to put on a mask first. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Put your mask on. [[I object to making Poles second-class citizens.]] Mr President, for the third time, I ask you to put on a mask. This is the last time I'm asking you to wear a mask. Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are interfering with the Parliament's deliberations. Put your mask on, please. [[I object to proceding...]] Mr Braun, based on the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Seym I call you to order and ask you to put on a mask. [[I object to the establishment of...]] Mr Braun, based on the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm refer you to order and I find that you are preventing the proceedings from being held. Put your mask on, please. [[I object.]] Mr Braun, you are still preventing the proceedings from taking place. On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: Five, I'm making a decision to exclude you from the Sejm. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, leave the sitting room. Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't heard any objections, so... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] The Public Finance Commission has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the law on pledge lists and mortgage banks... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, ……]] [[Objection, there's an objection!]] ...and some other laws, print no. 2058. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. [[To Putin, to Putin.]] The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on bridge pensions and certain other laws, - amending the Act - Water Law, - ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America concerning the deployment of flight security officers signed in Warsaw on 2 December 2021, - ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Armenia to the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia on the readmission of persons residing illegally, drawn up in Brussels on 19 April 2013, drawn up at Warsaw on 29 October 2021. The reports shall be printed in 2062, 2054, 2066 and 2067 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that: - in the debate on the first reading of the draft law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in the territory of that State, the Sejm listened to six-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the wheels, - in discussions on the reports in prints 2066 and 2067 the Sejm listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles, - in discussions on the other items on the agenda, the Sejm listened to five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection!]] [[Next.]] In view of the opposition, we will join you, ladies and gentlemen... [[Objection to what?]] Please? [[Objection to what?]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the proposal of the Sejm Bureau. Who of the ladies and gentlemen is in favour of the proposal of the Bureau of the Sejm to hear six-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles on the first reading of the draft law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in its territory, three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on the reports in 2066 and 2067 and five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles in discussions on the other items of the agenda, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 419 - for, 19 - against, 7 stopped. Thank you very much for accepting the proposal from the Sejm Bureau. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at this meeting information on access to public services for refugees from Ukraine, in particular health protection, housing and education, and government plans in this area, which was requested by the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left (New Left, Together). The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter is available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u2	I would like to inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today: - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Health-- hour. 10.30, - Special Services - hour. 11, - Infrastructure - hour 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 13, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 13, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 13.30, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 14, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 14, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 2.30 p.m., - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 15, - Health-- hour. 3.30 p.m., - Public Finance - hour. 16, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 17, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 18. At the same time, I am communicating, announcing a team meeting. Today at the hour. The 12th Parliamentary Group will meet. Renewable energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u3	Thank you very much. We have formal requests. Please, Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I submit a request for a break and a supplement to the agenda for information on the government's efforts to provide humanitarian aid to victims of the war fleeing from Ukraine to Poland. Yesterday morning I received this message from the Ukrainian House in Przemyśl: Mrs Urszulo, I am alarmed that the situation has become dramatic. We don't have accommodations, trains aren't enough, mothers and children are camping at the train station and, unfortunately, under the open sky. Volunteer energy is no longer enough, and people keep coming. The reception desk at the train station didn't work at night. I'm scared what's gonna happen tomorrow. For 12 days of war, private individuals, volunteers, employees, entrepreneurs, local government officials bought you time. Today, this time is over and we still do not know what the government's plan is for better coordination, for faster clearance of transports, for an increase in reception facilities. More than 1 million people fleeing Ukraine and millions of Poles helping them are waiting for this information. Give it to people, it's urgent. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bastard!]] [[Your Marshal, counterclaim.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u5	Thank you very much, Member. Madame, all the cases were discussed at the Senior Convention meeting, all the questions are about this, and the current information is about that. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. You're welcome. Oh, excuse me, Prime Minister Kowalczyk is still asking to speak. Please, Prime Minister Henryk Kowalczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u6	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! I don't know what spirit that statement was... [[Voice from the room: Truth.]] ...is this statement controlled from Moscow to disrupt the Polish society... [[Applause]] [[Are you crazy?]] ...or is this your own initiative, unfortunately. It's then that ignorance somehow justifies you. [[What, any criticism of the government is going to be an attack on Moscow?]] But listen very carefully. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that for the first two weeks... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, the question is, let the Prime Minister speak. [[But is any attention to the government going to be an attack on Moscow?]] [[Sit down!]] [[Voice from the hall: Get off the mouthpiece!]] [[Voice from the room: Who do you work for?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u8	...for the first two weeks, they were all really unanimous. On the other hand, such statements try to break up Polish society. I would like to state to you that, first of all, the Polish government is absolutely in control of the situation, an example of this is an example of a bill that is being processed in a moment. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[Voice from the hall: Have you been to the train station?]] We leave no refugees from Ukraine, nor do we leave the lonely... [[Voice from the room: You want impunity.]] [[Voice from the room: Tell me, tell me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u9	Mr President, I ask you to remain calm. Don't disturb the Prime Minister's speech, please. [[Voice from the room: Are you starting?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u10	So I ask you to calm down, really... I think... [[Voice from the room: Please appeal to yourself.]] [[Voice from the hall: Thieves!]] ... It's been two weeks of your peace. [[Honest people have nothing to fear. What are you afraid of?]] I understand now that there's anxiety, but I want you to behave decently for a few weeks... [[Applause]] [[A voice from the hall: Minister, I am a Member of Przemyśl, I see it every day. Come to Przemyśl.]] Please behave decently towards, first of all, the people who are fleeing the war from Ukraine. And secondly, please also behave decently towards all those Polish residents who take refugees under their roof. [[Applause]] [[What's the government doing?]] And the fact that there are no refugee camps in Poland is thanks to the Polish government. [[Applause]] [[It's the government that's fighting, not you.]] [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] Really, I know that you can no longer see that the Polish government is doing great (Applause) that society really does not listen to you, but it helps, as far as it can, Ukrainian refugees. [[Why are you lying? It was society that took responsibility.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u11	Sit down immediately, sir. Mr President, I'm warning you. I warn you, sir, please sit in your seat. [[The truth is, Marshal.]] Mr President, I am warning you once again.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u12	I think you would have done a lot better, sir, if you had arranged transport... [[Voice from the room: He does it all the time.]] ...instead of shouting here. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u13	Mr President, I am warning you a second time. If you don't want to hear it, then leave. [[20 hours a day, I work all the way through.]] [[Marshal, remind the Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u14	Don't be really nervous. It is better to direct this energy to help refugees from Ukraine. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the gym: Get to work, Prime Minister.]] [[Voice from the gym: You hit a guy who helps all the time.]] Self-governments stand at the height of the task, organize assistance as they can. The Polish government in this law, which will be procedated in a moment, also financially supports local governments, does not leave them alone. [[That's not true.]] I am therefore really surprised that such statements may have occurred at the moment when we are before proceeding over this law. This necessary bill, which is going to be huge in terms of the Polish government, but we are able to do it... [[Voice from the room: On purpose.]] ...for the sake of good, for the international situation, for the lives of the inhabitants of Ukraine. [[Voice from the hall: You will steal even more.]] I spoke to the Minister of Agriculture of Ukraine this morning. There the situation is dramatic, people are starved in the surrounding cities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's focus on effective assistance for Ukraine... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...for refugees, and let us not engage in such discussions. [[Surrendering applause, some Members get up]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that many of us are guided by emotions. I just wanted to... [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is what you're doing right now. Let me just say something. [[Voice from the room: Why lie like that? It's a disgrace.]] We're all trying to get involved, all of us. We do it, we do it, we do it, we do it, we do it, we do it, we do it, we do it, we do it, we do it, we do it, we do it, we do it, we do it, we do [[Voice from the room: No kidding.]] [[Voice from the room: Not everyone, Marshal.]] Why are you discussing this with me from the jury, Member? Do you know the rules? Shut up, let me tell you something. [[Voice from the room: Government doesn't do anything.]] [[What's the government doing?]] Emotions, ladies and gentlemen, must be held back. Remember, think of it: there, in Ukraine, parliamentarians gather together and under crutches, under bombs they work in harmony. [[Voice from the hall: Ukraine.]] [[And here the Prime Minister comes out and...]] Member, please do not argue with me. [[A voice from the courtroom: Marshal, did you hear the Prime Minister's first words?]] Well, you're just showing me, sir, where... Don't argue with me, sir. Please sit down. Mr President, I understand emotions, but this is not the place for discussion right now. [[Mr President, we have a task. We're here to make an aid bill.]] [[Voice from the room: But at least two words correct.]] No, sir. Here you are, Mr Paweł Zalewski with a formal proposal. [[Speech Off the Wetphone]] Excuse me, ma'am, louder, 'cause you can't hear me. Louder, ma'am. Scream louder. [[Voice from the Chamber: But if you do not allow Members...]] Do you know the rules of procedure, Member? Do you know the rules? I'm sending you to read the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's not the time, it's not the place to argue and say that someone's good and someone's bad. Polish society has shown incredible solidarity. A million people who came to Poland from Ukraine, today may feel worthy because Poles opened their hearts and houses. [[Applause]] Let this expression of solidarity - two flags, two nations, two societies - be the answer to how we should and to whom we should thank. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us thank, regardless of the color of the political flag, Poles, thank the Polish people for this (Applause) that they open their hearts with dignity. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The Republic of Poland and Ukraine - two countries, the same heart. Poland, Ukraine - one family. Kiev, Warsaw - a common matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u17	Here you go, Mr Paweł Zalewski, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! It wasn't that long ago that you called for unity. This really is not the time for Mrs Zielińska to be called by a member of your club a person who draws inspiration from the Kremlin. [[Applause]] I'm asking you to draw the consequences for this. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: We know that, yes, we know that.]] Ladies and gentlemen, for 13 days the Ukrainians have been heroically defending their independence. Poles accept more than one million refugees. Poland has become a front country, it has become a direct backup, from which to Ukraine arms supplies are made. It is time for us to feel safe, so we requested that we install air defense systems in Poland, which Poland simply does not have. I would like to ask you, Mrs Marshal, to complete the proceedings on the information of the Prime Minister about when air defense systems will be installed in Poland (the bell)...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u19	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u20	...such as patriots and MRCs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u21	Thank you very much, sir. Here you go, Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I request that the meeting be kept secret and that the Minister of National Defence submit full information on the state of arms of the Polish Armed Forces. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! From left to right we hear a call: all hands on deck! I hope, Marshal, that not all hands, e.g. not those which have led to the introduction of these famous, shameful provisions on impunity+that have been introduced into the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens. But let's see what the deck looks like and what's on that deck. What is the state of arms of the Polish Armed Forces? Where's the air defense? What does the Polish Navy look like? This is the information that the High House should receive immediately, and this should be complete information. That's why I'm asking for secrecy.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u23	Thank you very much, sir. Mr President, please read the rules of procedure. That's not a valid conclusion. Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Well, I'm also asking you to close this session, because what you did, what you put into the last law on helping the Ukrainians, is a scandal. You're trying to put impunity+z in the bill again. With a bill to help refugees and systematize work with refugees from Ukraine, you simply want to cover the dirty interests of your colleagues. You want to include in the bill information about this... [[Voice from the hall: Don't judge according to yourself.]] ...that if someone committed a crime in the fight against a pandemic, they didn't commit a crime. This is an outrage and such things should not be prosecuted in this Seym. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u25	Already? Thank you very much. As a motion to close the sitting has been tabled, I will put this request to the vote. [[It's against the law.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, if the representatives of this club, to which you belong, the speaker... [[Wheels.]] ...put some energy into working for Ukraine and the Ukrainians instead of talking nonsense, that would certainly be better. [[Applause]] But, in response to these allegations, we also hear shouts from the left side of the room. Ladies and gentlemen, really a minimum of reflection and look at these records. These provisions, which refer to the article. 231 and Article 2 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 296 of the Penal Code, these are the provisions excluding § 2, and thus excluding the take-up of the property or personal benefit. They do not relate to this situation. And to whom, then, are they referring in particular, what is also written in this law? Local workers on the basis of a choice. Think about it sometime before you start screaming (the bell), attacking and throwing accusations without cover. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u27	Thank you very much. As a request has been made to close the sitting, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of closing the sitting? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 19 - for, 291 - against, with 139. The Sejm's motion is denied. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u28	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today, from the Baltic to the Tatras, Poles and Poles help Ukraine and do not expect us to fight, fight, just work over party divisions, support for all social groups. And at this point, I want to claim a group, an important social group, a farmer. There was supposed to be support for fertilizer, fertilizer subsidies. Those terms are shifting. We already hear about the end of March. Farmers want to go out tonight, they're having trouble buying fuel, buying fertilizer. And this problem needs to be solved. Without this, we will not be able to ensure food security, which is very important, for Poland and for the whole of Europe. Today we need to move the green order to the other side, of course we need to think about this policy from field to table, but in the longer term. Today we must (the bell) absolutely secure the country and the whole of Europe. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u29	Thank you very much, sir. It wasn't a formal conclusion, of course. As the last Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u30	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would very much like to thank Krzysztof Gawkowski for this beautiful gesture, for these flags and for fighting for unity, because this unity really should be in the Polish Parliament. But we have two things to do. Two things in which we should speak with one voice. The first thing is that today is Russia's 13th day of aggression against Ukraine. [[Voice in the courtroom: Marshal, motion.]] This is a matter of immediate payment by the compromised Eurocrats of funds from the National Reconstruction Plan supported by Putin. That's one thing. [[You voted against it.]] The second point is also support, speaking with one voice on the systematic support of the whole European Union for the Polish state, for Slovakia, for Romania and for Hungary to help Ukrainian refugees. [[For Hungary?]] I have a courtesy to the Left, to the Civic Platform, to the PSL. Withdraw your signatures today under this resolution, which calls for sanctions on Poland. [[That's right. Shame on you.]] Don't do this. Let us show for the first time in the European Parliament that we can speak with one Polish voice. Do not attack Poland today and fight for money (the bell) to help refugees from Ukraine. [[What kind of sanctions? What the hell are you talking about?]] This is the Polish state right. That's right, too, across Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u31	Thank you very much, sir. That's where we ended the vote. We proceed with the examination of items 1st of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law on medical devices (prints 1764 and 2047). I ask Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u32	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At its 43rd meeting on 30 November 2021, the Sejm referred the draft Act on Medical Devices to the Health Commission for consideration. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u33	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u34	The Health Commission met on 2 December 2021 and an emergency subcommittee was set up to consider this project. The subcommittee at six meetings both examined the draft submitted in detail and referred to the amendments tabled. Following the adoption of some of the amendments, the extraordinary committee submitted a report to the Health Committee on 23 February this year, including a draft law adopted by the subcommittee. The Health Committee proposes that the High Sejm adopt this proposal. The proposed Act on Medical Devices serves to apply the 2017 Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on medical devices intended to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market in the area of medical devices and in vitro diagnostic devices, taking, of course, as a basis a high level of health protection for patients and users, including small and medium-sized enterprises which are manufacturers of such medical devices. In Poland there are about 3400 entities that manufacture medical devices. There are also 280 authorised representatives of these manufacturers, over 3,000. importers and distributors of medical devices. Thus, this law is extremely important for regulating the market for medical devices in terms of both production, distribution and their application on the Polish market. This law sets out the powers of the authority which will exercise its supervisory role in the regulation of medical devices, sets out the information obligations of economic operators operating on the medical devices market, lays down the rules for advertising medical devices and provides for a system of administrative penalties related to non-compliance with the provisions of that law. The most important assumptions of this law are the following. The body designated for the proper application of the provisions resulting from that law will be the President of the Office for Registration of Medicinal Products and Biocidal Products. The President will act within the scope of the mandate granted under the 2017 Regulations - Regulation 745 and Regulation 746 - of the European Parliament and of the European Council. The President will be able to request many different information about medical devices. He'll be able to conduct controls at the institutions. It will be able, by administrative decisions, to prohibit the placing on the market of medicinal products which do not comply with the requirements of the Regulation and to withdraw such products from the market. It will also be able to request information from the UDI issuing entities about the entities and persons involved in the production and distribution of medical devices. The proposed law requires that the UDI codes are stored in the medicinal entities which use these medical devices. It imposes an obligation to provide full information on medical devices that have been implanted into the patient. The provisions of the Act allow the regeneration of certain medical devices, but do not allow them to be used on the territory of the Republic of Poland. The project also regulates the issue of clinical trials, insurance of these studies. In this respect, amendments have been tabled which have been accepted by the committee. The project also talks about the need to label medical devices in Polish as well as those products that are sold as part of mail order sales. An information obligation (The Bell) has also been introduced for the placing on the market of these medical devices. During the work of the Sub-Committee on Emergency Health, the draft amendment was adopted, inter alia. concerning the storage of UDI codes. This obligation was maintained for the codes indicated in the Regulation. It won't concern...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u35	Go ahead and finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u36	...e.g. dressings or syringes. There has also been a change in the civil liability insurance of clinical trials, and there is no need to do so. the insurance of the so-called "insurance'. observational studies. The possibility of transmitting samples of medical devices in the context of advertising of such devices has also been allowed. It was also reduced to 10% in relation to the original draft of the penalty if the infringements do not threaten...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u37	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u38	...of patients' lives and health. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Health, I ask the High Sejm to adopt this law, which is necessary in the medical services market. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u39	Thank you very much. And I'm asking everyone today to observe the time. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of Law and Justice, I present my position on the Government's draft law on medical devices, Parliamentary Printing No. 1764. The draft law regulates the proper application in Poland of two EU Regulations - Regulations 2017/745 and 2017/746 - which leave the implementation issues to the decisions of the Member States, and creates a legal and organisational framework for the proper and effective implementation of the powers and obligations of competent authorities and entities operating in the field of medical devices in Poland. The draft of the contested law has been notified to the European Commission and there is a time limit for listening to the comments of the parties concerned. The law is intended only to supplement EU law in this respect, while the 2010 law has implemented EU directives in this field. The draft submitted in most of the issues raises no substantive objections. According to Art. 1 paragraph 1 of the draft Act on Medical Devices lays down the obligations of economic operators, public health institutions, medical operators, professionals and other entities, the jurisdiction, powers, duties and tasks of the authorities, administrative penalties, rules and procedures for conducting the clinical examination of the medical device, the amount and mode of payment of fees for the application of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the European Council. The design also regulates the rules for the use and maintenance of devices, the rules and procedures for carrying out inspections of the clinical examination of the medical device and the inspection of the performance of the in vitro diagnostic medical device, as well as the rules for advertising and supervision of the devices. The law defines the competence of the Member States in this respect. It should be emphasized that for the first time in Poland advertising of medical devices is regulated in any way. We have regulated mechanisms for advertising medicinal products, but towards medical devices is the first major step. The Act also provides a way out to meet market expectations by resorting to the level of penalties imposed by the President of the Office for the Registration of Medicinal Products. The draft law aims to reduce these amounts, which may be beneficial for the development of the market and consequently for patients. The project also provides for a ban on the introduction of recycled disposable products, which is a key objective of the health system, i.e. patient health safety. The Act itself implements the provisions of Regulations Nos 745 and 746, including institutionally focusing tools and regulations around the President of URPL as the national competent authority for the handling of medical devices, in addition to the basic tasks relating to the registration of medicinal products. The solutions adopted by the project in the vast majority do not raise any substantive objections and are very expected by this industry and by patients. The Law and Justice Club has a positive opinion on the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u41	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Rajmund Miller, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u42	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform Club a position towards the government's draft law on medical devices, prints No. 1764 and 2047. The aim of the proposed law is to bring Polish law in this respect into line with EU rules, in particular the proposed law defines the characteristics of bodies, the information obligations of economic operators operating on the market of medical devices for in vitro diagnostics, the rules of advertising of products, the system of administrative penalties related to non-compliance with the provisions mentioned above. the regulation and the proposed law. The most important amendments introduced by the Act include the following provisions. The President of the Office for the Registration of Medicinal Products, Medical Products and Biocidal Products will issue administrative decisions in situations defined by European Union legislation. The President of the Office for Registration of Medicinal Products will be able to request information about medical devices, among others. from public health institutions and entities operating in or using such products - this will also apply to the list of custom-made medical devices which have been made available in Poland - as well as to manufacturers of custom-made products. The project introduces a transfer obligation, among others. a declaration of compliance of the instructions for use and the marks and promotional materials of medical devices placed on the market or submitted for assessment of the operation or use in Poland. This applies e.g. manufacturers, authorised representatives, operators of medical devices and sterilizers of systems or treatment sets. The draft shall also lay down the responsibilities of the bioethical committees, as required by Union legislation. The draft rules for the regeneration of single-use medical devices are laid down, introducing a ban on the use in Poland of recycled single-use devices. A system of administrative penalties related to non-compliance has also been introduced. The Civic Coalition Club - Civic Platform will vote in favour of the provisions of this law. The Act is an adaptation of the provisions in force in Poland to the rules in force in the European Union in this field. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u43	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Messenger Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law on medical devices. Following further incidents and increasing concerns about the safety of medical devices, it is advisable to establish high quality and safety standards for such products. At the outset, it is worth recalling that this law is the implementation of European Union law to the Polish legal system. Without a doubt, medical devices are an important area that requires ordering in the interests of the safety of all those who are or will be recipients of various types of products, procedures and services from a widely understood spectrum of medicine. According to Art. 1 paragraph 1 the draft law on medical devices is intended to define the obligations of economic operators, public health institutions, health professionals, professionals and other entities. The law is also intended to indicate the jurisdiction, powers, duties and tasks of the authorities, including administrative penalties. The flagship of the EU legislator was to propose and ensure a high level of protection of the health of patients and users of medical devices. In order to meet the objectives set - Medical Device Regulation - the Act proposes a number of regulations in various areas that can promote the improvement and provision of such standards. The Act lays down general conditions, safety requirements and the operation of technical documentation, rules for the classification of procedures, conformity assessment and clinical trials. The Act imposes new obligations on importers and distributors of medical devices. Both groups of operators were required to perform specific checks and ensure compliance of the device made available with the MDR rules. The EU legislator's concern for the quality and safety of medical devices is the change in the regulatory approach so far revealed by strengthening the surveillance and administrative supervision of the marketing of medical products. This surveillance concerns both the medical device market itself and includes post-market surveillance. This law contains concrete proposals for solutions related to advertising. Among the examples, it should be pointed out that advertising made public must be formulated in a way that is understandable to the average user of the product. It is worth noting that advertising directed to public information must not use the image of persons performing medical professions or claiming to be such persons or present persons presenting a product in such a way as to suggest that they are engaged in such a profession. This means that the advertising will no longer be possible for persons representing medical professions or for example for the performance of such professions. In addition, the forms of advertising and the corresponding mandatory communications that will need to appear in advertisements will be specified in detail. The most debatable part of this project is the chapter on administrative financial penalties. The amount of these penalties proposed in the original provisions of the project is significant, it is specified that it can be up to PLN 5 million. In the course of the work of the subcommittee, the range of penalties has been modified, adapting them to the specificities of the commodity groups, so that, in the case of the most serious cases, the penalties are particularly severe. It is primarily about certain infringements by the largest and most prosperous market participants. On the other hand, in the case of less significant deficiencies that do not endanger life and health - and these penalties could endanger the economic existence of small, often single-persons, entities or small family businesses - penalties have been modified to acceptable levels. In conclusion, when considering any draft law resulting from the implementation of EU law into the Polish legal order, one fundamental issue must be remembered: proceding on the Act on Medical Devices and today's discussion would be pointless if not for Poland's membership in the EU (Applause) - a Union to which most citizens in 2004, when governments were left, Poland joined. I deliberately stress this fact today when the EU and NATO are the guarantors of our security. Let us remember this and respect decisions which are due not so much to politicians as to conscious citizens of the Republic of Poland. In view of the above, I recommend to the Left Club the support of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u45	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u46	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank all those who worked in this subcommittee, from your chairwoman, through Members, all the trade and patient organisations involved, to the resort together with the subordinate institutions. The government project, of course, adapts Polish law to EU solutions. When we look at the definitions of these medical devices, we see that they are theoretically not telling us anything, but when we look at what they are for medical devices, starting with well-known gloves, dressings, blood containers, and ending with those that simply save lives, such as heart valves, orthopedic collars, disposable catheters, then we are aware of how important this project is from the point of view of patient safety and how directly and indirectly affects the quality of medical services. An example is the fact that the draft also sets out the responsibilities of bioethical committees, in line with the requirements of EU legislation, as well as the rules governing the advertising of products and the advertising of services provided by them, which resulted in considerable discussion during the process of the project. The project is also very important because of its business activity - which is extremely important from the point of view of my club - because it is defined in it, among others. responsibilities of economic operators, public health institutions, health professionals and professionals. During my first reading in this Chamber, I drew attention to this area of operation of the new rules, focusing my attention precisely on the fact that entrepreneurs and their organisations represent their comments. They come from practitioners on these issues. That is why today we should thank all those who were involved in the process of this law. As usual, I'm starting with the Chief Pharmacy Chamber, but you have to remember. about the Chamber of Commerce of Pharmacy Poland, the Chamber of Commerce of Dentist Technicians in Poland, Coalition Helping independent ¿, the National Chamber of Commerce of Medical Products POLMED, the Polish Federation of Hospitals, the Polish Centre for Research and Certification and many, many other organizations, including directly related to entrepreneurs, employers, like the employers of Poland and the Association of Employers of Pharmaceutical Wholesales. I thank them very warmly because they paid attention to a number of issues which were improved in this law, concerning the safety of Polish hospitals and patients, the pandemic of Coronavirus in the context of the safety of products in Poland, but also violations of the interests of entities operating on the Polish market. I believe that these were key issues for patient safety. It is important that we tried not to forget the negative impact on the perception of the Polish market as attractive for Polish and foreign investors. My club supports this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u47	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have an important question for government representatives here: How many button manufacturers are there in Poland? I don't think you know that. You have no idea how many entities do buttons in Poland and under what conditions these buttons are made. And yet this is an important thing: everyone has to have buttons every day. You're not doing anything about it, and that's why everyone has buttons and there's no problem with buttons. On the other hand, the situation of medical devices is completely different. Medical devices were cared for in about 150 laws - I do not remember exactly how many, but in about 150 laws, and the situation is bad, so bad that a new law needs to be passed. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if there are more laws where there are more laws, it is worse if a new law is introduced, then of course it will be even worse. Imagine a button manufacturer who, before deciding whether to make a button with two holes or with four holes, would have to review 150 laws to see if it was contrary to any EU directive or any other provision. Such laws create terrible confusion in a very important market. Please understand, in a case, let's be clear, it doesn't matter to people what buttons are, it's okay. Why can't it be good for the more important issue of medical devices? This is a fundamental matter. The government just doesn't know how to leave things to people and deal with heart valves. I mean, none of us in this room know what a heart valve should look like, and we're gonna vote for valve manufacturers to explain how they're supposed to make heart valves. Do you really not see the absurdity of this situation? [[Voice from the room: You have to read the bill.]] I'm on the Health Committee and I'm even voting on some things. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this law, like most of the laws passed in this House, is simply unnecessary and even harmful. I'm not saying, of course, that everything about her is wrong. There will always be reasonable rules in every piece of legislation, except that without this law these rules would still work. Therefore, we will vote against this law, realizing that it is really just one small pebble in this flood of laws that hinder producers from doing, hinder farmers from plowing, sowing and collecting, hindering doctors from treating and hindering patients from finding their own doctors. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u49	Thank you very much. If any of you and your fellow Members would like to come forward with a question, please. [[Yes.]] I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Marek Rutka, the Left. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u50	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a question about the issue of penalties. Those punishments I spoke of in my speech are quite large. Does the Ministry predict that there will be some kind of audit after some time? The idea is that, first of all, small Polish entities do not feel these penalties too strongly, in other words, that these penalties do not end in bankruptcy often of small, family companies. But I still wanted to refer to the words of Mr Mikke, who made a plea that we do not regulate the activities of companies that produce buttons. Well, in the case of such indications, I am taking pills, perhaps Mr Braun is taking buttons. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u51	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u52	The new Act on Medical Devices is an expected act that cleans up a number of issues concerning this group of products used in health care, so it is worthwhile for us to develop good solutions. However, I have the impression that the government has made a bit of a fuss about regulating advertising and showed great legislative optimism. Let me ask you straight away: Does the government expect producers operating in competitive conditions to make as much profit as possible, that they will regulate themselves, regulate advertising themselves, based on the public interest? If so, it is an expression of a deep misunderstanding of the roles played by the state and private actors in society. I hope the mess with the commercials of medical products is over. I hope that the government will accept the amendments of the Left, which we have tabled several times, if not now, in subsequent amendments. At the committee meeting, we heard this wasn't the time. I hope that if you see (the bell) that your regulations aren't working, you'll come back for our amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Obaz, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ms Zawisza spoke about advertising and its importance, about how we receive these medicines later, and about our amendments that we tabled. But an important thing is also announced by the state law regulating all issues related to dietary supplements. The so-called. The sugar bill, unfortunately, has not been regulated until today. Today, these dietary supplements are actually sold according to their own, the manufacturer's will and in terms of assimilation and the content of the elements that are needed to the body, often do not meet completely any standards. Minister! When such a bill appears here, in this courtroom, so that we can renegotiate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As part of the opinion to the Act, the Office of the Ombudsman of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs submitted comments to the bill in the light of the rules governing the exercise of business activities in the territory of the Republic of Poland, to which attention should be paid. These are among others. rules for undertaking and carrying out checks on undertakings. I would very much ask that the Minister refer to these comments. At the same time, I would like to raise an important topic concerning the current situation, the situation of prescriptions for refugees from Ukraine. How is it solved right now? Is this happening already? I would also ask for oral information today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left. You're welcome, sir. There isn't. Here you go, Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u58	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! Many patients in Poland use various types of medical devices, e.g. when implanting lenses, endoprothesis, injection syringes or CT scans. The current rules have not fully regulated the marketing of these products. I would add that various medical devices have appeared on the market not only in Europe but also outside Europe, which may raise concerns as to whether they meet the standards and requirements set out in the legislation. Minister! I have a question: Will the new government bill ensure the safety of patients and how will the law improve access to medical devices and services? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u59	Thank you, Member. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is a Siepoposcia foundation that participates in fundraising for drugs and rehabilitation equipment. Anyone who enters this portal is terrified and with disbelief reads these requests and begging for money for medications, for the treatment of diseases for which drugs are not refunded and are very, very expensive, for rehabilitation equipment, for wheelchairs for disabled people, etc. Even car accident victims are begging for help in rehab. And where is the Justice Fund? I will remind you of this every opportunity and beg you to help those people who have been left alone. Polish health care is in decline, the government does not understand it. I know there's a war abroad, but it's important to remember everything, because Ukrainian refugees will also need medical help. Ukrainian citizens do not have a refund of medicines provided, they are paid 100%. How will this be solved? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u61	Thank you, Member. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is extremely necessary. There are three main issues. Will there be a restriction in the new law on the fact that only medicines tested can be advertised? Question two: When - this question has already been asked - will there be a definition of a dietary supplement? Often these are medicines - says the pharmacists - only otherwise called, so it is an ordinary irregularity or even, we can say, fraud. Finally, the third point: we are the country where the highest intake of medicines is, even very often, drug use, and at the same time availability is for snapshots of fingers. You can buy medicine, and it's painkillers at the gas station. There's nowhere like that, nowhere. At no gas station in Western Europe, I did not see such a possibility. The drugs are available everywhere, the drugs are advertised. I counted it once. In one of the TV shows, there were 18 drug ads, and only drugs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are these issues clearly and in accordance with the patient's needs and health? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Uruski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u64	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The present law clarifies the issue of civil liability compensation. In accordance with the regulations, each survey is subject to an OC insurance. [[Applause]] Therefore, the question is: Is the so-called. will the clinical observation study also be subject to liability insurance? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u65	Thank you, sir. Mrs Teresa Glenc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much for this project, which comprehensively regulates the use of medical devices. The Act provides for administrative penalties for non-compliance of manufacturers and distributors of medical devices with certain requirements. My question is: What punishments, at what level, and in what situations will they be applied? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u67	Thank you, Member. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a result of the work on the project in the committees, several dozen amendments were introduced, but in the age of popularization of aesthetic medicine, amendments to protect citizens using it were not voted out. One of the parliamentarians of the Civic Coalition proposed to amend the restriction of the use of e.g. hyaluronic acid, stressing that more and more side effects are being reported. An additional risk is the fact that such measures are used not only in medical offices by qualified doctors, but also for example. It's because of the cosmetics. If the citizens' coalition's proposal has been rejected, I ask you to answer the question: How does the government intend to address this problem? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question: When will the rules for who and where can perform hyaluronic acid treatments be clearly defined? Because unfortunately, it was rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns the amendment we tabled as a KO club to Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; The Commission shall adopt implementing acts It is a simple change that will prevent many tragedies, above all, of women. Already in 2018, the journal Rzeczpospolita alarmed about complications following aesthetic medicine procedures carried out by cosmetologists or cosmetics. It's been four years since then. Unfortunately, not much has changed, and if something has changed, it's only for the worse. Experts confirm that aesthetic medicine is a plague performed by people who are poorly qualified or unaccelerated. That is why today we propose to regulate the safety of patients undergoing medical procedures. In our view, the Minister of Health should be required to issue a regulation in order to properly comply with the obligation to supervise and control the operation and use of devices which pose or may pose a risk to the life, health or safety of patients. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In view of the above: What is the current position of the government on our amendment? I believe that it should be immediately introduced into our legal system. I'm asking you to answer the question today, and if not today, it's in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u72	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! According to the County Medical Chamber report, it is common to offer treatments for aesthetic medicine by various types of offices. That's what my predecessors, my clubmates, were talking about. These procedures are usually performed by non-doctors. This information is widely available in public space. On the Internet, ladies and gentlemen, we can easily find information about cosmetic salons that offer treatments related to the use of hyaluronic acid, or the offer of training in the field of filling hyaluronic acid. It is also common to propose a tattoo reduction procedure using lactic acid microinduction, which often results in extensive scarring. Unfortunately, failed treatments performed by unskilled people lead to serious health problems, which then must be dealt with by dermatologists, which generates (the Bell) huge costs in the treatment process. Does the Ministry have a proposal to solve these reported problems? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u73	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Government representatives! The proposed law defines the competence of the authorities and the information obligations of economic operators in the market for medical devices and in vitro diagnostic devices. How the law redeployes the issue of authorisations for the testing of in vitro diagnostic devices in the light of Article. 72 of the Regulation 746/2017? Treatment of in vitro infertility is not supported by the Polish state during the current government. These programs are implemented by Polish local governments, some voivodships, e.g. voivodship wielkopolskie. The safety of in vitro diagnostics is very important and I would like to ask: How does this law address this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u75	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u76	Minister! High Izbo! The authority designated in Poland to supervise the marketing of medical products was the President of the Office for the Registration of Medicinal Products and Biocidal Products. This institution has received a very important task area. I would like to ask for a detailed range of tasks carried out by the President of the Office. What powers will he have, and will the President have to hire additional staff in the event of broadening the scope of these tasks? Is the budget of the Office for the Registration of Medicinal Products and Biocidal Products increased at least? How do you imagine from the logistics side of this very important law to be implemented? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u77	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Act regulates the marketing of medical products such as orthopedic collars, orthotics, wheelchairs, dressings, catheters, blood containers. These are all products that are currently also being collected and shipped to our friends east to Ukraine. My question, Minister, is this bill will not limit in any way the export of these medical devices, so much needed today in Ukraine, east of our country? And if it doesn't, is the Minister planning any action, regulation, suspension of those rules that might make it difficult for him to do so? And will there be any facilitation from the Ministry for the export of these medical devices to Ukraine? Thank you very much. I'd be obliged to answer in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u79	Thank you very much. And the last question is asked by Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u80	Dear Marshal! Minister! This bill raises no doubt, but it is a good opportunity to ask about the Ukrainian case. Medical devices are a wide category of products: patches, dressings, diagnostic equipment, IVs, surgical equipment, medical beds. Very specific question, Minister: Has the Ministry of Health identified any problems with the export of medical devices for fighting Ukraine in the last 13 days? Second question: Is the resources of medical devices collected by the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency sufficient? Do they respond to these needs? And three: Have you met with a request from a military hospital in Vinnica to provide, for example, medical beds for this hospital that is being created? There are 500 places created there, and medical beds are not available. Can you take care of this case? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u81	Thank you very much. And please, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Maciej Miłkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u82	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for this discussion. I thank all the clubs for the de facto support of the bill as a whole. Here we had some questions. Of course, Mr. Janusz Korwin-Mikke was talking about buttons, valves. We cannot imagine that the quality of the valves is not supervised, monitored, that there are no proper clinical trials. And we don't really care about buttons. Besides, we don't know exactly because you didn't say which buttons were square or oblong. But Mr Rutka also explained to you that they are to another... As far as further questions are concerned, a number of questions have been raised concerning the article. 51 - Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Mrs Iwona Kozłowska - who dealt with the same subject, i.e. errors in the misuse of medical devices by the wrong person, it is sometimes the wrong person and the complications that may occur. We have an article in the law. 51 fully defined where the President of the Office, who is responsible for this, will inform the Minister for Health about groups of generic products which pose or may pose a risk to the life, health or safety of patients. It shall then inform the Minister of Health of the need for a regulation in which some requirements or restrictions must be applied to that group of medical devices. I know we've talked to the doctor's department that it has several product groups whose use should be limited in particular, it's about following the medical device guidelines. In addition, the Medical Chamber has even recently issued a resolution on the scope of their application - so that its members do not train persons who do not have the authority to perform specific tasks. So that we believe that this bill... Because there was a proposal for a change that is: the minister can define, and there was a proposal that: he has a duty to define. If we know this bill... Such a regulation will certainly come out immediately and we will work on it and, of course, it will be amended several times depending on what further problems will be, so we will monitor the market in this regard. As regards questions concerning dietary supplements and the definition of dietary supplements, the advertising of medicinal products - Mrs Fabisiak - these questions do not concern this law. This is a medical device law and only medical devices are used here. Many regulations are similar to those for medicines. For the first time, the advertising of medical devices has been specified. This has not been the case before, before you could normally advertise medical devices, as you said, you cannot use the image of people, medical professionals in these advertisements either. Ms Ewa Kozanecka asked whether this law ensures security. The law is written mainly in terms of patient safety, the quality of the placing on the market of signs. Only products which have undergone a specific procedure may be introduced which are safe on the market. It is also all about the supervision of these products, where if there are any undesirable effects, the professional is obliged to inform, submit a request to the manufacturer, to the President of the Supervisory Authority about such medicines, about such problems, as well as any user can do so and inform the President. The President keeps such a register, the President always explains these matters. In general, the President shall keep a register of all medical devices which are (the bell) implemented. As regards administrative penalties, they have been reduced and the President may waive them. OC of clinical trials, observational has just been changed. There is no need in observational studies to buy out OC. As far as in vitro is concerned, it's been mixed up here, too. This is not a diagnosis and treatment of infertility, only these are in vitro diagnostic medical devices, lenses, pipettes and containers. These are in vitro products, so I don't think that's what he meant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u83	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mrs Fabisiak, Mrs Fabisiak is corrected. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u84	Minister! I am fully aware that this bill does not apply to the advertising of medicines. On the other hand, I am dealing with this problem, and because the problem is dragonflies, which I tried to explain in the question, I would like to ask for an answer as to how these issues are regulated. I'm responding to your Marshal's request not to extend your time, so I'm asking for a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u85	Thank you very much. And please, the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u86	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! A very important bill, which was examined, which was consulted with the environments: many medical devices operators had an opportunity to comment on it. A number of comments from these communities have been taken into account in the draft law, which is now under discussion by the Sejm. We also discussed very widely with stakeholders during the process of the subcommittee or committee, and many of these comments have been taken into account. I would therefore very much like to thank the President of the Office for Registration of Medicinal Products and Biocidal Products, Minister, for preparing this extensive project, for being open to discussion, adopting or accepting certain amendments, which will indeed improve this legislative document. I would also like to thank all the environments that have made their comments. Using their experience, we could really prepare a legal act that will respond primarily to the needs of patients and protect them and ensure their safety. I would like to thank all the Members who have worked within the committee, the subcommittee; it has been tedious work, but I think it is very satisfying. I believe that this project will soon be adopted and will ensure the safety of patients using medical devices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u87	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country (prints No. 2069 and 2069-A). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Maciej Wąsik to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish government, I have a great honour to present to the High House a draft law on assistance for Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country. This law is about our solidarity, about solidarity towards Ukraine, a country that has suffered unprecedented assault on the part of its neighbour, Putinian Russia. This law in my opinion is not only our moral duty, but it is also the Polish state right, because the Polish state right is free, independent Ukraine. We have no doubt about that. Today, when Ukrainians defend men, soldiers, volunteers, we must take care of those who flee from the horrors of war, they flee because bombs are falling on their homes. These are mostly old people, women and children. It is our duty to make them feel safe in Poland so that they can find shelter in our country, as we have found refuge many times in our history when misfortunes have touched us. The Act lays down specific rules on legalising the residence of Ukrainian citizens - I stress: Ukrainian citizens - who entered the territory of the Republic of Poland directly from the territory of Ukraine in connection with war activities carried out in the territory of that country. The Act legalizes the stay of these people in Poland for a period of 18 months. The validation shall be made on the basis of a register kept by the Border Guard. If this register is incomplete, because there were situations when the briefing was accelerated towards women and children, it can be supplemented by via self-government bodies. The Act gives them the right to give them a special number PESEL, under which it will be written that it is a Ukrainian citizen, not a Polish citizen, while the number PESEL will give them the possibility to grant the relevant benefits, as well as to deal with certain matters in electronic form. These people will be able to create a profile trusted, they will be able to use the mCitizen app. The Act also provides funding for the stay of Ukrainian citizens in Poland. We are aware that the situation, which has lasted for 12 days, involves a great effort of both state and local government. It is a huge effort of local governments, as well as individuals. This law makes it possible to finance the costs incurred by these bodies, institutions, as well as individuals who share their assets with Ukrainian citizens fleeing the war. According to this law, the Polish government will provide accommodation and board for at least 60 days of Ukrainian citizens within its own resources and resources, depending on the situation in which these people are. For 60 days through voivodeships, local governments will provide them with a roof over their head, food, shelter and food. We will act by means of a specially created Aid Fund, which is an open fund, to which apart from the funds derived from bonds, the Bank of National Farms will be able to influence funds in the form of donations or payments from foreign institutions, on which we hope of course the assistance. The Act sets out the following rights of Ukrainian citizens whose stay in the territory of the Republic is recognised as legal: right to work, right to conduct business, right to family benefit, education, benefits under the programmeGood start for children, family care capital, running foster families, right to social assistance. The only direct and universal benefit for all persons is a one-time benefit of PLN 300 for each person who comes to Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Act provides for access to health care, reimbursement of medicines under the rules laid down in the laws for Polish citizens. The law also allows Polish citizens studying in Ukraine - I stress: Polish citizens studying in Ukraine - to complete these studies in a free way in Poland. It also gives local governments the opportunity to create conditions for children to continue their studies in primary and secondary schools in Poland, as in the case of Polish children. The law also makes it possible to finance this process through educational subsidies. The provisions of the Act allow the notification of certain professions so that these people can take up work in Poland more quickly. In particular, it is about doctors and nurses whose deficit in our health system is known. We're going to want these people to enter the labour market faster. The Act also gives the possibility to help through Polish institutions twin institutions in Ukraine. Courts can help courts, prosecutors' offices, research institutes to research institutes, so that it is within the resources they have, as part of their savings, so that this aid can flow. It also gives local authorities the title to humanitarian aid and also to sending aid to local and foreign institutions. Of course, this is about Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen! The Act gives counter-opportunities in particular to local government officials and voivodeships on issues of public finance discipline, overshooting powers when it comes to spending funds or managing the property entrusted to them, because for 12 days these people have spent self-government funds on helping refugees, spending funds not necessarily according to the discipline of public finances. They're waiting for those laws to take their responsibilities off. We must ensure, in particular, the services of the voivodship, but above all the local authorities legal security and this law also ensures this. But there is one important thing: these counter-attacks do not include corruption crimes. Everywhere there's embezzlement, corruption, property possession, that's where we're going to pursue with all determination. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me stress once again: this law is an expression of our solidarity with Ukraine. This bill is security for old people, women and children who enter Poland, fleeing the horror of war. It's a law that supports Ukrainians defending their homeland. Let me stress once again: free, independent Ukraine is a Polish state right, it is also the security of Poland and Poles. I ask the High Sejm to understand this situation, our great duty in which we are. By the way, I would like to express my thanks to all of you, who have already shown great solidarity, who are helping in this huge exodus to control this situation, all state officials, local government officials, local government officials, Members and senators, all the ordinary people who work every day to provide a roof over their heads, food that escapes the Ukrainians from the war. Thank you very much for everything and I bow my head because it is a great work of the Polish people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u89	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear six minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and three minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u90	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today is such a special day, a beautiful holiday, which many times we celebrated in very different ways. Taking advantage of this opportunity, on the hands of your marshals, all your messengers, as well as all Poles, I would like to make the most heartfelt wishes. We would also like to make our best wishes - I hope to be the expressor of all of us - for the celebration of women to all Ukrainians who did not want to come to our homeland in this way, but today they are with us. I'm also talking about this because, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that this is how it is, that a gift is always given to someone on Christmas occasion. I think that today this law is a beautiful gift of the Polish government for the Ukrainians, for their children, that in a systematic way, in the form of a law we want to tell them today that we welcome them and as a Polish government, as a Polish parliament we will support them. [[From today.]] And it would also be beautiful if this law had such a political consensus. That will be the case, it will soon be seen, because in a moment there will be statements from opposition clubs, which have already shown this morning that it does not have to be so necessary. [[The Prime Minister explained it.]] I would like to refer, ladies and gentlemen, to the statements of one of the members of the Civic Platform club, who, on the basis of some e-mail, said that these people were not secured on the Polish border. Ladies and gentlemen, along with the bureau of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs, I had the opportunity to be in Przemyśl, in Medicine... [[What do you think?]] ...and see how this help works. And, ladies and gentlemen, praise for this to all the people who helped there, but not necessarily glory to those who unfortunately are also in the Polish Parliament, who pretend that nothing is happening there, that there is no such help, that there is no such help. This is, ladies and gentlemen, nowadays absolute wickedness, absolute irresponsibleness. This is merely human vileness. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has already made these technical assumptions about this law. We will work on their details at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, we will evaluate them, check whether they are good. But it seems to me that in such a short time there is a law of good, a law necessary and a law which is extremely necessary. Now it is up to us only how we can approach it from this point of view. I would very much like this to be a substantive work. It can be said that this law contains everything, above all helping people who are affected by war, but also supporting people who are already helping them, supporting institutions that will also get involved, and supporting local governments. It seems to me that these records, which at the beginning of the discussion about this law arouse some emotions, are, ladies and gentlemen, entirely secondary issues, unnecessary ones, those which in this situation do not have the slightest meaning at all. Ladies and gentlemen, someone once said that war changes everything. And let's note that the war changed everything. But also war can change a lot of things in our thinking for the better, for the more positive. And that is our task, so that we can properly assess this and approach this law in an appropriate way. Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes it is so that in order to express certain feelings, certain experiences, it may be better to say this in the form of a quote from someone who may be more into our consciousness, into our mind, into our discernment. I would very much like to hear the words of a person who is certainly here, to be an example to all those who are in any way concerned with helping others. She's a woman, she's a great woman, she's a great woman, she's a holy woman. It's St. Teresa's mother from Calcutta. She once said the following words, let me quote them, let them be the punch line, and at the same time perhaps the ground for discussion, the basis for the discussion of this law: If you are kind, people will accuse you of selfishness and low motives. Stay kind, after all. If you succeed in life, you will find many false friends and many true enemies. Try to succeed, after all. If you're honest and open, people can use it. Be honest and open, after all. The good you are doing today will probably forget tomorrow, but do good after all. One night you could lose what you've been building over the years. Build, after all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] By doing their best, they'll say it's not enough. Give it your best shot, though. Ladies and gentlemen! In the face of this tragedy, this terrible situation. Let's do our best together. The Law and Justice Club fully supports the bill submitted. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u91	Thank you, sir. I just wanted to say one thing. There's no envoy in this room who wouldn't help, who wouldn't get involved, no matter where he's sitting in this room. But if we want this help to be complete, so that we can all say that we've done the right thing, we also have to tell the truth. So if something bad is going on somewhere, we also need to talk about it in order to make things right. [[The voice from the hall: You weren't telling the truth there.]] That is why we also need respect for each other's work, which we are doing together here. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u92	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We come to work in Parliament on the expected and extremely important bill. Poland and Europe after 1945 have never been in such a difficult and dangerous situation, in such a difficult situation. There's a war in Europe. One of our neighbors brutally attacked the other. Putinow Russia murders the Ukrainian people in no way, shooting at children and defenseless women, destroying and taking over the material achievements of an independent state. Heroically fighting Ukrainians need our help and support, support for the entire civilized world: diplomatic, military, humanitarian. There are hundreds of thousands of refugees within our country, mostly women and children. There will be many more in the coming weeks, months. Polish society and local governments have been giving the test of solidarity and openness since the first days of Russian aggression. With great commitment and passion, they accept those fleeing from the conflagration of war. They organize accommodation, food and care for Ukrainian refugees. They also send thousands of tons of necessary in-kind assistance to Ukraine, carrying out monetary collections. Poles show that they have not forgotten the horrors of World War II, which has so cruelly experienced us. It is high time that the government and parliament gave their institutions, local governments and their individuals, NGOs and society tools to provide effective and organised assistance to refugees and fighting Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an unusual and unusual law, because, first, it introduces changes to many legal acts and affects the security of the state, migration policy, in particular the determination of refugee status, social and social protection, education and science, the labour market, public finances, the organisation of the work of local governments and their individuals, secondly, it allows legal assistance in kind and financially for Ukraine, but most importantly, gives for 18 months, with the possibility of extension, the right of refugees to medical, social, education, education, employment, economic activity under conditions generally accepted for Poles and Poles. This is the most important aspect of this bill. The Civic Coalition in its deep sense of responsibility supports the process of this bill. [[Applause]] In substance, we will ask questions and make amendments. We have a whole range of comments and doubts about some of its records, e.g. Article 2 71 and 82 who exempt officials from criminal liability during a natural or exceptional disaster. Do local government officials really need this? I highly doubt it. We were opposed to such records in the COVID laws, and we will also be opposed today. [[Applause]] We will report a number of solutions that we believe will improve the functioning of the state and local authorities' apparatus at this difficult time. We have a number of doubts about e.g. a new non-budget solidarity fund set up at the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, completely outside the control of Parliament. The expenditure will be decided by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland in practically one person. We will propose that at least the financial plan and the report of the Solidarity Fund be assessed by the Joint Committees on Finance and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy. [[Applause]] We will propose that Ukrainian teachers treat like doctors and nurses, regulate their status and employability. We need health workers, but we'll also need a whole bunch of teachers. [[Applause]] We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the legislation should include citizens of Belarus fleeing Ukraine. Many of them fled from the Lukashenka regime from Belarus to Ukraine, and today they must flee from there from the Russian troops. We think it's important to remember It's about them, too. [[Applause]] What about the records in the Act on Drugs against Exporting Drugs Abroad? Today we work a little illegally, and we, and self-government, because we send many medicines to Ukraine. I think it's illegal today. We also need to consider the wording in the article. 1 (The bell) and delete the expression directly - they came directly from Ukraine - because many refugees crossed the Ukrainian-Slovak border and today are in Poland. We have to remember them. [[Applause]] We will also propose temporary abolition by the end of June of trade on Sundays, because today it is a provision that limits certain possibilities. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, we are aware that the bill under review will not solve all the problems that we are dealing with and which are yet to arise. Further amendments will be needed. It will also be important to share information about the solutions put in place, both for Poles and for Ukrainians. Today, mothers with children who come here believe that they have arrived for 2-3 weeks, they have such a feeling that they will be back in a moment. That's why they only go to big cities, they don't want to go to the province, they don't want to go to smaller centres. We must inform them about what they can expect and what this bill means to them, which I hope we will adopt in a moment. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I declare that we are in favour of making this bill substantively and as quickly as possible and in the best shape as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u93	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u94	High Izbo! There will be more of us in Poland than before, we will speak not only Polish, we will live in a much more diverse society and our companies, our hospitals, our offices, our schools must manage it. It is fair to say that this will be a huge challenge, who knows if it will not be the biggest after 1989. But there's nothing to look at in this future with fear. The last few days have shown us how much we can do when we work together. We showed the world and ourselves that in Poland many things we thought were impossible have become possible. A million people are already here and it is difficult to imagine it sometimes, but there, behind the Polish border, the string of people and cars continues to the horizon. A few days ago we were there with a group of Members, among others. with Mr Kosiniak-Kamish, Mrs Emilewicz, and we spoke with the Ukrainian authorities, and they leave no illusions: there is an exodus and this million women and children who have already crossed our borders, this is just the beginning. Years ago, when the Germans destroyed Warsaw, my grandmother came out of the ruins of the capital with one bag in her hands. That was all she had left of the bombed house. Today there are people at Warsaw Stations who are being robbed of everything by the war. Those hryvnias in their pockets have lost their practical value. They ran away like steel, often don't have warm clothes, they don't even have diapers for their children, and they have to be helped. All of Poland has committed itself to this aid and this is a great thing. It's a big thing when we collect sleeping bags and food packages, we organize babysitting when we're looking for translators, psychologists, when thousands of refugees. sleep in Polish houses, sometimes on the couch, sometimes on the ground, on the karimata. A great network of mutual assistance was created and all this happened in a few days completely bottom-up. Ladies and gentlemen, great words often fall in this room and they often fall on the rise, but I think that today we all agree that it is something to be proud of, because it is our common movement that has shown great strength - the power of interpersonal solidarity. But war continues and this new war reality needs to be reorganized. It's not even the finest, noblest reflexes, because it's impossible in the long run. Aid to refugees must take over the country. This country must provide people with a roof over their heads, this country must adapt schools and hospitals. We need to develop the deserts, we need to build new housing estates quickly. This country must regulate the market and protect refugees from exploitation. We need today, as never before, a strong state and a smart caring state, because we have a difficult time ahead of us. I hear such questions from people more and more: Will we be able to cope? What will the consequences of this war be? Are we going to have an economic hole? What about food prices? What's gonna happen to the apartments? These questions are understandable, the government must answer them. It's a good thing we're working on this bill today, because in order to handle the situation, you have to act quickly. Therefore, we will not fill you with thousands of amendments, but a few corrections seem to be needed. First thing, urgent: we shouldn't artificially share families. This is an example of life taken. The husband of a Ukrainian citizen stayed to fight, his wife from Tajikistan is already in Poland with children, these kids have Ukrainian citizenship, she is not, and this war is the same tragedy for them. There's no need for unnecessary divisions. Families of Ukrainian citizens, people who have lived there for years, had the right to stay, they should be covered by this law, even if they do not have a Ukrainian passport. It's a simple, small change, and she's gonna help a lot of these people. Come on, work. War fugitives will get the same rights as other workers - that's the right rule, we support it. But equal treatment on paper is not enough, because hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians who go to the Polish market do not know the language, do not know the Polish law - and this country must ensure that they are not exploited so that they do not work several hours a day for starvation rates. This is our common interest, because at this difficult time of war, we must protect our economy from falling wages. That's why you have to go, in our opinion, further than the government says. We need to strengthen the State Labour Inspection, we need to give the inspectors new, stronger tools. The corresponding laws of the Left have been laid down, they lie in parliament - consider them, really just accept them. Finally, a huge part of these war refugees are kids - and this is where every day counts, because they have to go to schools as soon as possible. It is necessary to do everything to ensure that educational ghettos for Ukrainian children are not formed in Polish cities in some time. Listen, please, to those proposals that are made by teachers' unions. These are simple things, such as schooling, but there are also more difficult ones: getting teachers from Ukraine to work with their children, more stable funding for schools to which small refugees will go. We will also propose these amendments to you during the work on the bill, so that you may consider them. Of course, it costs money, but luckily, we're not alone. Poland is part of a larger whole. We are part of the European Union and in this extraordinary situation we can and should be supported by other countries. And there's nothing to be embarrassed about asking for help. War changes a lot. Minister, we must finally communicate with Brussels - now, now, now. I will not pick on the little things, because we all know the circumstances under which this bill was made, but at the end I have to say one thing, because yesterday someone - nobody wants to confess now - added this so-called project. pandemic impunity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, you spoke of counter-attack of war, but this is another matter. This point has nothing to do with refugees, and it has nothing to do with war, and it's, frankly, Minister, just not tasty, it has to be changed, let's just change it. Ladies and gentlemen, the war just abroad, millions of refugees, economic problems. There are really very serious challenges ahead of us. I believe that we can deal with them together, but for this to work, we need fair cooperation, not political prowess. In these last days Poles have shown us all empathy, solidarity and responsibility. Now is the time for Polish politicians and the Polish state to stand at the level of the task. Thank you very much. We are, of course, in favour of further work on this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u95	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u96	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives I will present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country. But before I do, I would like to thank all our fellow countrymen from this place, who, after the outbreak of the war in Ukraine, started by Putinow Russia, without waiting for any legal solutions, offered to help refugees. I want to thank people who, seeing that people, citizens of Ukraine cross our eastern border, gave them shelter in their homes. I also want to thank the local governments of all levels, municipalities, powiats, voivodships for helping our neighbours without waiting for other extraordinary solutions. I would also like to thank my fellow firefighters, who are constantly helping Ukrainians, but also NGOs and all the social groups, all the time, day and night. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition and the Polish People's Party thank you very much. [[Applause]] But we also know that this aid will have to be long-term and will require system solutions and legal decrees. Therefore, it is good that today, in Parliament, we adopt a law which sets out the rules for legalising the stay of Ukrainian citizens, sets out specific rules for entrusting work to Ukrainian citizens, assistance which will be provided by the voivodships, local self-government units and other entities for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens who now need it most. By virtue of the provisions of this law, a fund will be set up to finance or finance the implementation of tasks. The solutions contained in it will provide care and help to educate and educate children and students who are Ukrainian citizens, and also help Polish students studying in Ukraine and Ukraine to return to their studies. On the other hand, there were no solutions for students studying in Ukraine, but who were of a different nationality. I would like us to lean on these records in committee. This law also allows for medical care. These solutions are going in the right direction. However, there are still areas, and even there are many areas for development. Many actions so far were based on good heart, good will and enormous sacrifice of Poles. So far, more than 13 billion have been raised and spent for aid purposes thanks to various collections. We are proud of our citizens. But today, the question is, what's next? Because long-term aid is needed and there will be challenges that we need to anticipate. Our proposal is that refugees arriving in Poland should not be located only in Krakow, Warsaw or other major cities, but also in the Polish village, which has opportunities. Within the framework of cooperation of local governments with the Polish government and, of course, after generating adequate resources, it is possible to adapt the deserts that are in the Polish village today. Poland is waiting for refugees. She is also ready to take children to rural schools, which, as we know, are less heavily burdened than schools in cities. In the Polish village there is also work for our friends from across the eastern border. So here I call on the Polish government to generate the right resources to be able to prepare this base in the Polish village together with local governments. And such an amendment the club of the Polish People's Party - the Polish Coalition in this area will of course submit. It is also a time, ladies and gentlemen, to unlock the European funds, which are even more necessary today for Poland. They are needed for health care, waiting for them self-governments, waiting for Poles. Ukrainians are already waiting for these measures today. On the other hand, we do not agree to the provisions which are in the bill (the bell) of this law - art. 71 and Article 7 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 82. It can't be that you're going back to things that have been socially and politically misjudged. There are special states, extraordinary states, but it does not relieve officials of responsibility and does not provide them with impunity. In order to maintain the appearance of decency, these records, ladies and gentlemen, would have to apply from 24 February 2022. And that's an amendment our club will also report. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the coalition club of Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, I declare, following the adoption of the relevant amendments, the adoption of this extremely necessary law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u97	Thank you very much, Member, thank you. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The whole world admires how the Ukrainians face Putin, and his defeat at Kiev, Kharkov or Dnieprem is not only in the interests of independent Ukraine, but also in the vital interests of the Polish state. Ladies and gentlemen! As a Confederation, we support that the Polish State should provide Ukraine with the support that will help to defend it. But on this occasion we pay attention, Minister, to clearly communicate to the governments of both the UK and the United States, so that they do not play Polish support in a way that would expose Poland to direct participation in this war. This, in turn, is grossly contrary to the Polish state right. As far as the subject matter of this law is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, the Polish people show great heroism. The Polish people show great empathy and great everyday, ordinary heroism in the work of helping refugees who need to be helped. We, as the Confederation, also joined in a narrow section, in this specialized section, which some sometimes forget, i.e. to help Poles in Ukraine. Yes, because our compatriots live in Ukraine and their Polish state, or we as a Polish nation, in the first place is obliged to provide assistance. Ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, as for the law that is being prosecuted today, it raises doubts, because the rulers decided to put impunity+ into this law, which is an absolute scandal. This law also raises doubts because of the system adopted for helping refugees. A representative of the Left spoke of this open text. This law is not a temporary act to help war refugees in the territory of the Republic of Poland. This law as a whole is a de facto act treating Ukrainian citizens practically as citizens of the Polish state. This is a law that opens up a kind of, I don't know, settlement action in Poland. And that is not the thing that should happen without a nationwide debate. This is a bill that will cost tens of billions of dollars. Today we have a million refugees within our borders, but you know very well that millions more are really preparing to enter. It's gonna cause some problems, it's gonna cost you amazing money. And in the end, there's a question of who's gonna pay for it. Does the usual payment have an ordinary Pole out of his pocket, out of his taxes? The question is also why the Polish state (Dawn) which is so generous towards refugees from Ukraine could not allocate for 30 years at least a fraction of this amount to Polish repatriates who should be removed from the former Soviet Union. Finally, why do not those who have been tightening the gas loop around the neck of Central European countries for a decade? Why don't the Germans pay for it? Why should Poles pay for these millions of refugees? These are important questions today. And the question is: Why does the Polish government prepare a law that de facto falls within the competence of the Ukrainian state without a national debate? With all the help for refugees, these are things that need to be distinguished: Polish citizens and the competences of the Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u99	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u100	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The fate will smile - the Ukrainians who started to help the Poles began to sing their anthem. Marcela and her fiancé showed up at the border so that a pregnant Ukrainian friend could have a baby in Poland. Marcela from Michał, Dobrosław and others now form a volatile group of volunteers of the Polish 2050 Association. The rapper Daniel volunteered. The car loads up the ceiling with gifts and delivers to Lviv. On the way he blows up Ihora, who joins troops of Ukrainian territorial defense, and he takes 84-year-old woman and her four grandchildren from Lviv to Poland. Honestly, I've redecorated my head, my life is complete. Tears will tear when you see Marcin in action from the Folkowisko Society. He and his wife, Russians, and friends bring good to the border with Poland. He called the night before last armagedon. On the other side of our border, six people died, and Marcin carried a freezing baby on his hands that night. Matthew of the Good Factory tells us that refugees most expect warmth. It carries warmth flowing from the heart and literally, from thermos, pouring night tea for those waiting in kilometers of queues. It's no big deal for Monica, a volunteer from Duchnice, and Bartek at the transition in Kościenko shows the strength of the local government. Hundreds, thousands of such stories. Real, spontaneous and natural. Such leaders are needed in such difficult times. Prime Minister, that's an accurate description of one of the observers of what's happening at the border. Today, we need a system, coordination, sometimes quick, courageous decisions, so that we can all fight in one order of help. The model law in my opinion could have been prepared much earlier, because there is legislative chaos. Last night, 30 articles were added to the project, and today, before the beginning of the meeting, an additional 18 pages of the autocorrection. Let us work on this law, but let us bear in mind the need to help all refugees, the minimum standards for parliamentary control of spending money from the Aid Fund. The rules must not encourage negative practices. Responsibility cannot be limited. Minister! You called for solidarity. Let us show solidarity in sejm work, following the solidarity of millions of Poles. Poland 2050 will present several dozen amendments. If we can actually prepare a good bill, perhaps sooner our enemies will die like dew in the sun, as the heroic Ukraine sings. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u101	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jarosław Gowin, the Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, For two weeks Ukraine has been a territory of barbaric beastry, an area of evil, destruction, aggression, death. It is difficult to make a bigger contrast compared to what is happening in Poland thanks to millions of Poles. Here are examples of good, solidarity, empathy, compassion, real help for hundreds of thousands of refugees. And let me start by thanking the millions of Poles who are helping their Ukrainian sisters and brothers. It is good that there is now a law to support these bottom-up actions in a systematic manner and at the same time to give the legal and institutional framework. I will immediately point out that the Agreement is in favour of further proceedings over this law. At the same time, however, there are things that need to be improved in this law, which must have been created at a completely extraordinary rate. And I think government officials see it themselves, as they present, as Mr Zimoch has just mentioned, so many self-corrections. Therefore, I would like to see the comments that come from the opposition's representatives treated by the government camp as a sign of goodwill and willingness to cooperate. We need to avoid administrative paralysis. Those doubts that arise in subsequent statements are largely related to the threat of paralysis. For example, it appears that on the basis of biometric passports with a large proportion of refugees, temporary PESEL should be issued. On the other hand, the procedure provided for in the Act, which will involve offices to a great extent, would apply only to those who do not have biometric passports. The law should cover not only Ukrainian citizens, but also other refugees, especially students already mentioned here, students from many countries. By the way, there are some general conclusions on this law. The first concerns our location in the European Union. Today it is clear that the European Union is not only a guarantee of prosperity but also a guarantee of security. And you have to remove any irritations on the line Warsaw - Brussels. And two: support for local authorities and support for entrepreneurs is needed. Unfortunately, the Polish government (the bell) hits also local governments, and entrepreneurs. I hope that, while working on this law, the wrong, anti-government and anti-entrepreneurial elements of the Polish Order will be corrected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u103	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Agnieszka, go after the Polish cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The contested law on the support of refugees who come to our territory due to armed conflict is a law that is being processed quickly, but, I want to say, unfortunately, too slow. And we have two weeks since the outbreak of the conflict and it was the Poles who responded quickly. Poles quickly organized food, Poles quickly organized accommodation, drug transport and everything that was needed in the first days of conflict. And they deserve great bows and thanks. Ladies and gentlemen! I understand the records and statements of the Minister on the provisions of the article. 82 on the need to help those who have already spent public money and have spent it very often with their heart in their throats. That's what happened. Self-governments, entrepreneurs ran with this help, gave food. Let's be honest: if this article is to apply this way, let's admit that the Polish State is late. Procedures for granting a meal in order to give shelter should be established before (Applause) this conflict occurred. Two amendments to the Social Aid Act and local governments would be enough to give meals. At the moment it is indeed a rescue in the context of this situation of some people, also entrepreneurs who helped with a good heart, but if we really want to compensate entrepreneurs for their involvement, the risks incurred, then let us disable in their case Polish Load, because they will strangle themselves and help you very, very much. And in the context of this gratitude, it is very important. This bill is a good step. She is such an ad hoc act which now allows to work, solves certain elements related to legalizing the stay of Ukrainians here, securing their basic needs of life, but this is just the beginning. I think we should sit down now and work on a long-term policy. At the moment, we need to talk about what my previous speakers were talking about - housing policy, education policy, the prevention of social conflicts and various social unrests, because they will emerge. And we need to control it right now. We can't make such ad hoc laws. About Polish Affairs will be happy to work on such solutions, because this is a new reality not only for our neighbours from Ukraine, but also for us. And we must help the Polish society as quickly as it helped the government at the beginning. To this we must make it clear - that it was indeed the Poles who responded more quickly than we here in this House, that we were able to work out solutions. There are many elements that need to be asked, and those that need to be known to the regulations, such as the PESEL mentioned here. At the moment, the bill allows us to issue a PESEL number, but officials don't know how to do it, they don't have a reason for it, and they don't. The question is whether it will really follow the various types of regulation and concrete instructions for officials so that they do not really have to fear that they exceed their competences because they wish to help the Ukrainians. It is also about health contributions. The law says that you will have to secure health, but the question is how it will be regulated, whether it will be based on social assistance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's a lot of questions like that. We're gonna talk about this in committee and ask questions while the bill's being processed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u105	Thank you, Member. And there you go, Mrs. Joanna Senyshin, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the PPS wheel on the draft law on assistance for citizens of Ukraine. It is a good thing that you are involved in the aid because institutional solutions are needed. However, it is outrageous that by virtue of the article. 82 you introduce a new article into the Law of Entrepreneurs. 9a stating that he does not commit a criminal offence as defined in the Penal Code, if... and here is the entire litany of exemptions that the criminal meant well. This is another attempt to open the gate for thieves and cheaters. Do you really think that under the pretext of war in Ukraine, your people will steal and cheat, so you have to protect them? Please respond in writing about who is the author of the article. 82. The major disadvantage of the project is to help only Ukrainian citizens. Citizens of other countries flee from the war as well. They are discriminated against on the grounds of their nationality in all areas governed by the law: access to services, housing, education, higher education. It's unacceptable and unconstitutional. Art. 32 of the Constitution states that everyone is equal to the law and that everyone has the right to equal treatment by public authorities. I repeat, all of you. Also art. 14 The Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms prohibits discrimination on grounds of nationality. PPS calls for this very necessary law to be constitutionalised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u107	Thank you very much. And please, Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, also the PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u108	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In my brief speech, I wanted to draw attention to one thing, or rather to the lack of it. There were many very high words here, and rightly, this is the moment and the right moment, and not the prosaic ones like the hotel, the hostel, the guest house. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 825 thousand in Poland. accommodations in the tourism industry that was damaged before the outbreak of COVID. Why do we not want and cannot, even on this occasion, combine these two misfortunes: one, this huge Ukrainian disaster, and this smaller bit, but equally severe, for Polish entrepreneurs, what is the constant crisis in the tourism industry? Why doesn't this kind of law involve combining these two, so to speak, problems? It is in my opinion that it is asked to cause the government, but also the High House, to take action towards financing the stay, attention, 800,000. refugees. It may not be that number, but 500-600,000. [[♪ The bell ♪]] More than 0.5 million people can immediately find shelter in Polish guesthouses, hotels. Let me remind you that March is not the peak of the tourist season, which I dedicate especially to the government representative who runs this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u109	Thank you very much. Now, let's get to the questions. The first question is asked by Paweł Hreniak, Law and Justice. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u110	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make two substantive comments on the draft law. First note. The project provides for the possibility for people who flee from war, from educational benefits, and at the moment applications for them are only accepted in an electronic way. People who go to Poland today do not have the possibility to establish a trust profile and do not create bank accounts for various reasons, often due to an irregular personal situation. It seems that there should be a provision in this Act that these benefits can be paid in cash and applications accepted in paper form. And a second suggestion. The draft law, in my opinion, should include the provision that municipalities which have protected apartments on their premises, which often stand empty, may be able to accommodate Ukrainian citizens there without applying the provision of an article. 53 of the Social Assistance Act. I ask the Minister (the bell) to consider the merits of the comments I have made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u111	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u112	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! From American sources in November or November, you knew about the threat of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. I'm skipping all the weird political steps you've made later. But you could have used that time to prepare a coordinated aid system. You didn't do it. It was people who threw themselves at help. Their openness, great hearts are great heroism, which built the image of Poland as a country helping Ukrainian women and children. It was local governments that took on crisis management, along with volunteers. If it weren't for them, we'd be dealing with a humanitarian disaster. So I'm asking you where the voivodeship services are today. Why are women and children at Central Station? [[Applause]] Why don't they have warm meals? [[Voice from the room: Insolence.]] And here's my question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, will you follow this bill and put in place a coordinated aid system? [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] Because that's what you need most today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u113	Thank you very much. I ask you to remain calm. Each of you can go to Central Station and see what the situation is like. [[And to the border, Marshal.]] And to the border, too. And to Przemyśl, and to all the towns. [[Voice from the room: You were at the border...]] But I was at the Central Court, West Station and East Station. I'm asking you to calm down. [[We were at the border.]] I was also at the train station in Krakow and I know what the situation is. You're welcome... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. We agreed we were working on a bill. [[Calm your colleagues down.]] Mr Kaleta, you have asked us to work in substance, so please allow Members to talk about what they believe needs to be resolved in this law. Please, Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As Chairman of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I would like to express my sincere thanks to you for the work of uniformed services, but above all for the work of the Border Guard, which works above its own condition, because when we spoke, you said that we could pass over 55,000 across the border. People, today we pass them three times more. So please thank them warmly and see how these procedures can be simplified further. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, my question is as follows. I received an e-mail from one of the people in my region. He says he's accepted a three-man family. You're Ukrainian, your child is Ukrainian, he's Russian. And now, according to this law, he is treated differently than these people. So I have a question for you. But can we not, Minister, amend this law so as not to talk about Ukrainian citizens, but about Ukrainian citizens and their families, so that we also have this obligation to include people (the Bell) who, as a result of certain matters, have lived there for 20 years? And my second request to my friends on the Platform. Ladies and gentlemen, it is much better to work in one committee. However, I would ask you to withdraw this request. Working in three committees, when this law is extremely necessary, is much harder than working in one committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u115	Thank you. You applied for three committees. No. At first, you were talking about... [[We didn't make that proposal.]] There has been no proposal, sir. Sorry, Marshal, I misunderstood. It wasn't. You have to listen to what your friends say. [[Back it up!]] [[I'm sorry. I'm so sorry.]] Please, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u116	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Over the last 12 days, Poles have done something amazing. This huge help they had, of course, cost them money, cost them private money, and with great heart they simply accepted it. However, this aid has also exhausted the resources of non-governmental organisations. And we in this bill, Minister, see the possibility that we can compensate for these funds spent by NGOs, because we needed resources for everything: fuel, organization, food, various products. I'm the only one who wants to be sure, and I want to ask if this compensation is gonna happen, and if so, when. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u117	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Magdalena Sroka, the Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, we have been dealing with an unprecedented situation for almost two weeks. We look at Russia's attack on Ukraine, we look at how Poles have opened their hearts, how they support our friends from Ukraine every day. They all deserve a huge thank-you from this place, thousands of volunteers. But their work is also done by local governments. Local governments directly in their small homelands have to cope with huge challenges. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask whether solutions are envisaged, such as those in the COVID Act, according to which measures to combat addiction and to counter them self-governments will be able to target the fight at this difficult moment we are facing today. We know that this challenge is not (the bell) a challenge for months, but maybe even for long years, which is why it is worth supporting local governments in this situation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u119	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Agnieszka, go after the Polish cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u120	There's a lot of questions. Minister, what exactly will be the procedure for dealing with people who do not have Ukrainian citizenship and who have come to our territory? How are we supposed to secure them? We need to know that. We can't keep them without food, sleep and security. Can legalisation procedures not be simplified? It goes on for example. so that applications can be registered with the Social Security Office on the basis of the passport number and not only the PESEL number, because it is very difficult to obtain it at this point, which increases the waiting time for real help. Will the health contributions to be paid from public funds be paid in the social assistance scheme? These are questions that the law does not actually answer at this point. I understand that there will be regulations, different guidelines, but I would like you to take into account the fact that such questions will appear all the time. E.g. at the moment, the waiting time for permission to stay is 2 years, and the bill states that this residence permit will be available for application as you will be here for 9 months. It's been too long right now. So are there (the bell) any procedures that limit the time taken to make different administrative decisions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u121	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Józef Ratchrzek-Żelazko: Where are there no food and no drinking?]] Madame, I ask you to remain calm. [[Well, there they are. We need to get interested.]] [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] I would ask you to fight these disputes in the roundabouts. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr Kalet, really a little peace and humility. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mrs... [[Then go and help.]] Wait until the room is calmed down.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What are the reasons behind the draft law, dedicating it only to Ukrainian citizens, while there are thousands of citizens of other countries fleeing Ukraine from war? After all, the authors know very well that these are unconstitutional records. Naturally, any draft law adopted by the Sejm enjoys the presumption of constitutionality, but if it is known in advance that the law is unconstitutional, it should not be adopted. It should be better, because it's really needed. Why (the bell) refugees cannot escape war, e.g. by Slovakia? Only if they cross the Polish-Ukrainian border do they get the right status. Why does this bill discriminate against people? Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u123	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jan Warzecha, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act states that voivodships and local authorities may commission specific tasks in the field of assistance to organisations, among others. non-governmental organisations, excluding competition procedures. As we know, the vast majority of organizations are proven and honest organizations, but there are also those I will not mention because of advertising that I do not trust. Do we have protection in this regard as regards possible abuse? Many employers, especially in construction, in welding, as we know, have so far employed Ukrainians between the ages of 18 and 60 who have been appointed in the framework of mobilization. This is how the staff got thinned out. It has serious financial consequences, costs. I wanted to ask if this law provides for something in the regulations so that employers can (the bell) include these losses in the cost of obtaining revenue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u125	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The refugee relief law we've been waiting for for 12 days is like déj? vu from the beginning of the pandemic. Another fund is being created at Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego - now you called it the Help Fund - and billions of zlotys, Polish taxpayers' money, as well as EU money are to be spent entirely outside the control of Parliament. The law that arose in the face of war, suffering, human tragedy, which you are constantly talking about - and you have the full mouth of this suffering and sensitivity - arises in such a way that the Prime Minister can spend public money as he wants, wherever he wants, without any control. It's unthinkable, isn't it? It is not possible to introduce rules on human tragedy, which (The Bell) simply ruin the system of public finances in Poland. Your marshal, half a minute. The financial plan of the Fund shall be approved by the Prime Minister, the expenditure shall be approved by the Prime Minister and the report shall be adopted by the Prime Minister. Then why do you even need the Seym? You're suspending further articles in the Public Finance Act. Actually, any minister can do whatever he wants with the money. Then why the budget at all? You say we help, we mean well. But I'll tell you, the good intentions of this hell are paved. And remember: Poles will not forgive you another arms dealer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u128	Today the biggest challenge in integrating qualified refugees into work in the Polish health system is the language barrier. Therefore, we will propose to facilitate the financing of language courses allowing for appropriate examinations in medical professions and allowing for the removal of this barrier for persons performing so-called. Auxiliary professions. In addition, we will propose exemption from the fees for these examinations. Another problem which this law unfortunately does not solve is the issue of putting into circulation in the Polish health care system of medical records from Ukraine. Health workers are already meeting the results of tests, discharge papers, certificates, prescriptions from Ukraine. These are issues that need to be addressed urgently. And the question is: How soon will the government present regulations in this area? Because it will be difficult for all participants in the health system to function with medical data at the word of honor. Refund of the drugs. Even with access to them, we have a question of co-payment. The question that we have not dealt with for ourselves and for our citizens. People come to us without a penny. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The barrier in the form of 300 PLN or 30 PLN to be paid in the pharmacy is an impossible barrier to jump. Will a solution be addressed to those in such a difficult situation, without a penny at heart?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u129	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u130	It's a time and opportunity to end up with the bad construction of co-paying drugs. First in this case, then for all citizens.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u131	Please, Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u132	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Is the government able to quickly, as we care very much about, of course with the help of local authorities, count the deserts in the Polish village and generate the right resources to support local governments and to allow Ukrainian families to settle there? I count on it because it is very important for us, Poles, also villagers, to find jobs there for Ukrainian families. I also have a question, because Ukrainians coming to Poland often come with some financial resources. These are hryvnias that really don't have any value today. Are we prepared as a Polish government to adopt some solution in this regard to help these Ukrainians or for the right amount of hryvnia to pay them the right share, I do not know, some amount of money? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because these are often dramas and questions from the Ukrainian side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u133	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u134	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Already on the first day of the war, i.e. On February 24, the exodus of Ukrainians began in Poland and since the first day Ukrainians go to health care institutions. They go to basic health care, hospitals, but also specialist health care. Of course, these are not nagminical cases, but there will certainly be more and more of them. The benefits have been granted and questions are raised by the healthcare providers: Will the costs of health expenses be reimbursed and will the healthcare providers have to sign annexes to the existing contracts? Because it's important. And one more thing that I would like to ask you (the Minister's bell) is that in public space there are many fejeks that Ukrainians will be admitted to institutions under some special rules, without, for example, queues in which Polish citizens expect to provide health services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u135	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Krystyna Shumilas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The escapees from Ukraine are primarily children with mothers. If the border has exceeded over 1 million refugees, I estimate that about 600,000, 700,000. These will be children who must be absorbed into the Polish education system. I am convinced that teachers and local governments will do everything they can to provide education to these children, but we also need government help. Minister! Minister Czarnek spoke about a list of teachers who speak Ukrainian. The case looks very bad because in the Silesian Voivodeship there are 42 teachers with knowledge of Ukrainian, West Pomeranian - 12, Kujawsko-Pomorskie - 73. So these are really small amounts. If you don't do something like this really serious here, it's gonna be a disaster. Therefore, I have a question: Why there are no regulations in the Aid Act, which, for example, are used as a model. those concerning doctors and nurses would allow employment in Polish schools and kindergartens of teachers from Ukraine? Firstly, there would be work for those mothers who came here with children, and secondly - help for Ukrainian and Polish children in education. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u137	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Paweł Krutul, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Draft law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict. The key word is help. Minister! Poles and Poles, following their heartbeat, support refugees. No one's turning their heads around here. Everybody's helping. I'm proud of the attitude of our compatriots. You mentioned a faster nostrilization of the medical profession. That's a very good move. As you well know, there is a shortage of doctors' civilians, and so is the lack of medical assistance and doctors in the military. On this occasion, I would like to appeal to the Commander of the Armed Forces, to the Prime Minister of our Government, to the Minister of National Defence, also to you and to the entire Government. If we want to win - Europeans and the world - with the madman from the Kremlin, we need to start delivering offensive weapons to the Ukrainian army. We need to start effectively attacking the Russian aggressor. I therefore call for delivery e.g. circulating ammunition, which can be attacked by ships cooking for landing (The Bell), airports, convoys approaching Kiev. Such weapons will provide zero losses to Ukrainian soldiers, as the operator of this ammunition does it remotely, at a distance.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u139	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u140	Minister! Please give a huge thank you to the uniform service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u141	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u142	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! 88% Poles very well evaluate the work of the government when it comes to helping refugees from Ukraine and helping Ukraine. These are the latest studies of the institute in Poland, which I recommend especially Mrs Okła-Drewnowicz, who spoke these nonsenses about the lack of any government action in relation to the topic of aid to Ukrainians and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u143	Please respect the Members of the Speaker, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u144	On the other hand, as regards official responsibility, Minister, I have knowledge that there was also the voice of local governmentmen from the Civic Platform, so that this record would be to write it down. So I ask you to answer the question: Is that really the case? Such legal solutions are also introduced in the Western countries. There no one in this title raises any rewetes, as our opposition does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u145	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u146	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! First of all, I wanted to thank all Poles for their great heart and for their heroic help. [[Applause]] We're all helping. All Members are aware of the situation and want to help Ukraine. We all want to get involved in the work on this law and there is no reason for financial resources to be spent outside the budget. [[Applause]] We realize that money is needed for this, and we want to transfer it. So why does the government want to transfer money out of the budget and thus make another decision that will destroy public finances? Don't do this, ladies and gentlemen. Let us help Ukraine in a transparent way, which will be visible in our finances (The Bell) and which will be subject to parliamentary scrutiny. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u147	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u148	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish nation is giving an excellent exam, the Polish state is giving an excellent exam, but it is important to ask yourself: Does the European Union pass this test? Today in the Polish Sejm we are discussing a very important law about helping Ukrainian refugees. Is there such an act in the European Union? Has the European Union already decided on financial assistance to millions of Ukrainian refugees in Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, Romania? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Plus, it's 13. the day of war, and the European Commission continues to block Poland's payment of billions from KPOs. And what, ladies and gentlemen? You come from the Civic Platform and criticize the Polish government, which works in an absolutely professional way. Have the courage and start criticizing the European Commission for its tardiness. Where is the systemic, structural assistance of the European Commission, the Germans, the French, the Italians, the Spanish, when it comes to the refugee crisis? Where are those pieces of legislation? You have not notified a single act on assistance to Ukrainian refugees in the European Union (the bell), and you are submitting resolutions on sanctions against Poland. It's a shame. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[The anti-EU PiS has reached out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u149	Please, Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u150	Mr Kowalski, you want to seek consensus, and you are making a fuss on this speaker. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all non-governmental organisations, all Poles and Poles, including Border Guard officers for their spontaneous actions and assistance at the border. It is time to act on a system-based, fully professional, government-based action. Dear Minister, Please inform us whether you are planning to appoint a representative, coordinator of all the activities that the government intends to carry out, because at this moment we have many areas of operation that do not see each other, are independent, side by side. We have social issues, health policy issues, education market issues, and it all works independently. Everyone's afraid to take responsibility. It's high time you set up a proxy to coordinate your actions. Ladies and gentlemen! The municipalities are also faced with a problem due to the lack of legal solutions, regulation that would enable (the bell) the allocation of social premises. Please prepare the relevant provisions as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u151	Thank you very much. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u152	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! For several days now, we have been struggling with a big problem, compassion, and helping our neighbors. For this I thank all Poles, all Poles, people of good will and non-governmental organizations, local governments, but also Border Guards, Territorial Defence Forces, firefighters, police officers and all services of the voivode, especially Podkarpackie, Lublin... [[The Voyeur wasn't working.]] These consecrated people support the Ukrainians. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much, Minister, for preparing this bill, but we also know that very many children, sick children, often children of cancer, are going to Poland during treatment. Please inform me how these children will be taken care of. And one more question. Since these children are often without legal guardians, without parents, will this law also regulate the issues of the legal guardian who will be able to agree to certain procedures that these children will be able to (the bell) because of their health condition? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u153	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u154	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question: Who has thought of imposing the general principle of impunity on perpetrators of criminal offences in the Business Law, and what is the purpose and justification of this action? After all, the use of the law on helping refugees to smuggle such records is simply unworthy. [[Applause]] Next question: Why didn't you draw conclusions on this project and repeat the wrong record from the so-called. COVID legislation on public procurement? It is absolutely understandable and desirable to exempt certain purchases, services or works without mode, but it is necessary to ensure the transparency, transparency and follow-up of these orders. Every dollar must now be very careful about these expenses, because everything is priceless, and each one should be spent very efficiently and very reliably. [[Applause]] Of course, we will make such adjustments. So please enter the principle that, after 7 months, the COVID laws have been included, for example, in the public procurement newsletters. Another one, last one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As far as entrepreneurs are concerned, who should be thanked for the fact that although you have nailed them since the beginning of the year, they immediately started helping all refugees, let them also so that directly in the cost of obtaining revenue they can enter the expenses they incur. Not only do they pass on to public benefit organisations, local governments or entities listed in the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u155	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u156	But also those that spend directly on their employees and families of these workers, refugees. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u157	Thank you. Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u158	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Since 24 February this year. We see things differently. Russia's aggression against Ukraine changed everything. Thank you very much to all people who have been helping out of the goodness of their hearts since day one without looking back on others. It is good that today we are debating a specialty that will provide tools for wider aid. I have two questions. My first question concerns medical students. Their universities in Ukraine often simply no longer exist. What are the possibilities for help? Is it considered outside admission to the university, creation e.g. subsidiaries in Poland, so that they would not waste their time because of the different programs? This applies especially to the sixth year's students who were actually in the process of preparing for final exams. Will that be possible? And the second question. The biggest burden of assistance lies with the local governments of Lubelskie and Podkarpackie Voivodships. Will they be able to count on additional support? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u159	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u160	Mrs. Marshal! We observe the beautiful attitude of Poles and Poles who rushed with help for war refugees from Ukraine, for which Poland became a new home for weeks, months, and maybe years. Therefore, there is no doubt that we need to support all the solutions that help to improve the fate of these people so that they feel at home with us. But this crisis is also a great time of trial for you. It is also our role to assess how you function at this difficult time. And you'll admit that it doesn't work at all. 25 reception points at 150 thousand. refugees a day. Therefore, the effect is that only 10% These people are logged into the base. You don't even know where they are, where they've gone. You don't know that exactly. That's another line. [[The voice from the hall: shame! What are you saying?]] I know perfectly well, sir. People take refugees home. You guys don't even know where they are, where they're located. [[Applause]] You will only learn from this law how local government officials report to you, because today there is no possibility. If anyone wants to report, register that they have refugees in their home, that's not an option. There's no way that's gonna happen. [[Applause]] [[Sit down!]] Helpline - 4.5 hours of waiting. It's all clogged up.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u161	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Teresa Pamula, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? [[Game in the O.R.]] I ask you to remain calm, sir. Mrs Skowrońska, too. Everybody listen up, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u162	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Time is very difficult, so we need to calm down the emotions that prevail in this room very much. We need peace, we need health. All of us. All Poles need strength and discretion. Millions of people will come to us and we need to take care of them. These millions expect our support. I've seen women with monthly children on their hands. I was helping them tuck in the crying children. Please, please, help me this way, and don't disturb me. Minister! I just wanted to thank all the ministers, the warlord, Eve Leniart, the whole team for giving the exam that they're trying to support us. [[He doesn't see self-government.]] How will the incoming people who have continued their studies in Ukraine be able to count on the State to help them complete their studies? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u163	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u164	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Warsaw is a strategic place from the point of view of helping refugees from Ukraine who come to our country. Only one night, during 24 hours at two stations: 20,000 arrives at the Eastern Railway Station and Western Railway Station. people fleeing war - hungry, frozen, scared and sick people. The Central Station, for which the voivode we visited today, is a picture of complete chaos. There's no coordination, there's no medical support, there's no hot food zone. People sleep on the floor. It wasn't until 12 days later that we were able to gain access to free toilets. And you know your voivode hasn't bothered to go there so far, he wasn't there personally? [[Applause]] The provisions of this law may look good, but the reality may look exactly like at the Central Station (the bell), where volunteers must personally write on cardboard dictations in Ukrainian, which is where they are, because there is no organized one from your side. As Members, we are trying to obtain concrete and reliable information about the government's work and plans. We're being sent from the Ministry to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u165	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u166	The question is, where's the special attorney? Where is the crisis team, for example, that would coordinate all support comprehensively?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u167	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u168	Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the system is based on the titanic work of volunteers, people who have a good heart, and self-governments. We can't deal with this crisis like this. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Then why are you criticizing the Warsaw government?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u169	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Frederick Kapinos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u170	Dear Marshal! [[No, it's your voivode that blows up every field.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u171	Mrs... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Wait a minute, sir. Ladies... [[Voice from the Chamber: Please reassure the Member.]] I ask both of you to remain calm. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u172	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! We're in a special time. On February 24, we woke up in a new, very difficult reality, especially for Ukraine, but also for the whole democratic world. The next day Poland launched aid for Ukraine, aid for refugees. In my family's district, the district of Mielecki, the rural hostels' circles, associations, volunteers were very much involved in this assistance, as were the inhabitants of Podkarpackie and Poland. I always knew that Poles had open hearts, but what I saw recently exceeded my wildest expectations. We've wide open our hearts, our apartments, our wallets. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We would like to thank everyone very warmly for this openness. I thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and the members of the government very warmly for their quick and good decisions. Thank you for the fine work of your voivode Eve Leniart... [[Who hasn't met with local government officials.]] ...and officials, servants. Thank you also Caritas Poland and Caritas diocesan, all services that work at the border.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u173	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u174	I'd like to ask you a question about the bill under review. What support is provided for people with disabilities and those in need of medical assistance? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u175	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Zieliński. [[It says here that your voivode doesn't meet with self-government.]] All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The provisions of the draft law contain a whole range of solutions which are very necessary in this emergency situation, which will allow even better coordination of this assistance than before, to make it more effective. They concern many areas related to the stay of refugees from Ukraine in the Republic of Poland. Very well, this is all very desirable and necessary. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to one point, because those who organize in-kind assistance which is on the territory of Ukraine, outside the Republic of Poland, signal that perhaps it would be worth considering a change, correction, simplification of customs rules, which might allow for a faster transfer of goods, which our Ukrainian brothers are waiting for, who are still there, in Ukraine. As they claim, it is difficult to calculate, indicate the type of goods, values, because it is taking time. It's actually a problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If that's the case, because it has to be checked, then just Minister, I would ask for this simplification. I'm signaling this problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u177	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Andrzej Cry, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u178	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will also start by thanking all those who have joined Ukraine since the first day. How great is the common movement of Polish hearts, you can see from the first day also in my district, the Ostrowiec district, in my family Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie. There private individuals, entrepreneurs, associations, local government institutions joined in this assistance. I would like to thank the state institutions, the uniformed services for this assistance. And here, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question: What real assistance from the institutions of the European Union can Poland count on and can count on Poles in this difficult situation? Second question. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are observing an attack on the Polish state, the government, insinuations that it is not dealing with this situation. I am convinced that in some time (the bell) when the aid granted under this law goes to Ukrainians, there will be those who will attack Poland, the government that this aid to Ukrainians or refugees from Ukraine is at the expense of Poles, at the expense of those who are waiting for access to health care, to the labour market.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u179	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u180	What will the government do to counter this misinformation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u181	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Adam Gawada, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u182	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This important law, which we are talking about today, sets out in particular the very important tasks that are being carried out and which are ahead of us. This is mainly about assistance provided by voivodships, local government units and other entities. The Act also provides for the creation of a fund of assistance to finance the implementation of tasks to assist citizens of Ukraine. I would like to ask here whether, as a result of this situation, also county labour offices or tourist centres will receive additional support and resources to launch initiatives aimed at Ukrainians residing in Poland. I just spoke to the heads of these resorts or hotels. Will those with the possibility of housing refugees be included in this system - it is about reception - and will good rules also be set for them? I would also like to say that in my district, the district of Wiedsławski (Dzwonek), in Godów, a warehouse of necessary hygiene, food, milk has been launched. Voivodeships - I would like to ask very strongly here and appeal... Your marshal, literally the last sentence. ...to all those who are involved: Really Poland has become a country that looks at all the help in solidarity. Such voices, which I have heard here from this side, are indeed in an extremely irresponsible and dishonest manner directed towards all those who are involved. Voivodeships and district self-government units work 24 hours a day.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u183	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u184	They do a lot of important tasks all the time. There are over 1,100 thousand in Poland. refugees from Ukraine, daily the border exceeds over 100,000. It's a huge undertaking. At least don't bother me if you don't want to help anymore. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u185	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u186	In a crisis situation, in a situation of emergency, quick decisions are most important, also in advance, sometimes also rights. In the regulations we even have order regulations, also when it comes to local governments. These are the individual sectors of the entire crisis management system. In order to act quickly, decisions need to be made quickly, and this law and probably subsequent amendments, changes and extensions will serve to make these quick decisions easier. That is why I think that this money - as it was in terms of combating the epidemic, rapid aid to entrepreneurs - and financial resources must also be involved in different other sectors of local government and special administration. This also applies to this provision, which says: we quickly manage funds, municipal resources, also financial resources, and this must also be in the legalisation dimension (the Bell) so that there is no danger. This is the essence of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u187	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u188	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Polishness is abnormal - once said Mr. Donald Tusk. And I wanted to express my gratitude for being a member of this community, a community of people who today are solidarity with the Ukrainian people unconditionally, unconditionally. I am grateful, dear Poles, for being a member of this community, but I am also grateful for being a Member of the United Right and actively supporting the Government of Law and Justice, Prime Minister Matthew Morawiecki. Today we should ask what would happen if the Prime Minister was Donald Tusk and the Minister of National Defence - Franek Sterczewski. [[Applause]] [[You're funny, sir.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think you want to hear that answer. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is very important for refugees. I came home last night from my family's Wielenia, from the constituency. There, the pharmacists point out (the bell) that they issue pharmaceutical prescriptions for life-saving drugs to continue treatment. It is very good that in the provision of this law is also that the Ukrainians will legally have medicines refunded, access to these medicines. And I'm asking you, please don't disturb me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u189	Thank you very much. I'm very sorry to hear how you underestimate your colleagues who are all helping, everyone in this room, really on one side and on the other. [[Voice from the room: Oh, very...]] You guys really start to respect each other. [[Applause]] I ask the Minister to answer his questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened attentively to this debate, the questions that have been raised here. Here's what I'm gonna say: I'm gonna try to answer most of the questions because I've been taking notes. As for Mr Hreniak's question about bank accounts and whether we can pay benefits in cash, I think it will be pointless. We want to transmit PESEL numbers so that bank accounts can be created so that there are services in electronic form. We do not want to change that, we will certainly find a way to ensure that those who are interested in it are able to make the finals so that these benefits can be received. Mrs Okła-Drewnowicz asked her question, and she was not the only one, because Mrs Gajewska is still saying that the government is not actually helping. I was gonna say this to you: Four in the morning, the first bombs fell on Kiev. About an hour. Six in the morning, the voivods were ordered to create first reception points at the borders. About an hour. 10, 11 all points were ready, they were already working. The police were there, the army, the servants, the fire department. At the moment, many trains organized by the PKP are driven by shuttles, 300 coaches belonging to the Police, PSPs driving only and only refugees. In preparation we have another 800 coaches which have organized and which will support voivodships in centering people who are in large cities. We see the problem, yes, we see. But we don't understand why you're attacking the reception point at Central Station if you're closing the reception point at the Palace of Culture. It was President Trzaskowski who created the reception point, a lot of photos were taken there, and then this point was eliminated. That's why we had to reorganize our help. We ask Mrs Gajewska, who seems to have a significant influence on President Trzaskowski, not to wage any war in this field, no shoving. [[Applause]] 'Cause I can see that in the M.E. Warsaw wants to prove that some help and others do not help. That's not true. He's helping President Trzaskowski as he can, and the government is helping with all its resources, all its services. And it is. I will not allow you to depreciate someone's help: whether President Trzaskowski or Konstanty Radziwiłł, Warsaw Voivodeship. It's unworthy. It is unworthy of what you are doing, Member. Unworthy. [[And where are you, sir?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Voivodeships work all the time. Do you understand? Don't stop, don't stop. [[He wasn't at any train station.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u191	Madame, I ask you to remain calm. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: I would like to say, in answer to the specific questions of your Members: yes, there will be money for NGOs. They will be behind the reverse action from 24 February. We understand this enormous effort. The money in the fund is among others. So the NGO can get the money. Mrs Chasing asked how foreigners who were fleeing Ukraine would be treated. Ladies and gentlemen, these foreigners have their own countries to run to. Their homeland is not Ukraine, they return to their countries. They have consuls here who take care of them in cooperation with the Polish government, organize transports. From Jasionka, from Katowice fly planes to India, to Kazakhstan, to Iran, to Turkmenistan, driving these people away. As far as those persons who do not decide to return are concerned, their law on granting protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland is concerned, and this law is functioning. These are not restrictive regulations, but we have had to create specific rules for a vast crowd of Ukrainian citizens because of the scale and violence of this phenomenon. I hope that understanding is in the High House. I also wanted to answer the question of why we do not grant these rights to Ukrainians who have fled to other countries. Because other countries, other neighbours, also have an obligation to provide assistance. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Slovakia has this responsibility and will surely do it, Hungarians also have a duty and will probably do it. Romania has a duty, he'll probably do it. I see no reason for us to do only one hub in Poland. The whole of Europe is committed to this and we see this European solidarity. Temporary protection (Temporary protection) introduced by the authorities of the Union gives Ukrainians the opportunity to reside in basically every country of the European Union. This is good for Poland. Today we can take trains from Warsaw to Berlin, and we are working in this area to ensure that these trains leave so that there is no accumulation of refugees in Poland, which could lead to a humanitarian disaster. Those trains are gonna ride. Probably further, and to Vienna, and to other countries, I'm sure it will be operational in a moment. Ukraine's aid must be jointly and severally on the part of the whole of Europe. But we also realize that most Ukrainians have reached us and they want to stay with us because they count, especially women and children hope that they will be able to return to their fathers, husbands. That is why they stay in Poland, so Poland bears the greatest burden, and so it will be, ladies and gentlemen, and so it will be. On the other hand, what the European Union has proposed - there was a question here - it is EUR 500 million, half for Ukraine, and the rest for the other countries that are providing assistance. [[Voice from the hall: As an introduction.]] We're treating it as an introduction, someone told me. I hope this is not such a proposal as with German helmets for Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to students, for example medicine, who study at Ukrainian universities, there are many Poles who study there. They will all be able to continue their studies at Polish universities and I would stress that if they paid their tuition there, Polish universities of this tuition will not charge them. But we're talking about Polish students. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Janyska asked about public procurement law. Indeed, I agree with the Member, there is a need for transparency in the issue of these measures. We spoke with the Ministry of Development yesterday, and today, at the committee meeting, we will propose rules that will introduce such transparency. Such an amendment will be complex. I think our analysis... I don't see Mrs Janyska, but... [[We'll pass it on.]] Give it to me. We have also provided assistance for people with disabilities who are fleeing Ukraine. The State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities has the appropriate delegations to do these things. As far as the legal guardian is concerned, there is a solution in this law - they will be able to apply for benefits, even if they are not the closest family, they are not parents. Because it is often the case that grandma runs away with grandchildren and these people will also be able to apply for benefits. Mrs Shumilas asked about teachers. We cannot imagine hiring Ukrainian teachers in Polish schools who do not know Polish language. That's the basic problem. If they do, we can hire them as helpers at first. We are aware that this problem is, we are still in contact with the Minister of Education, and we see this problem. We cannot hire teachers who only speak Ukrainian, they must learn Polish, unless they know Ukrainian. They will be employed as helpers, especially in units where Ukrainian children will be. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me stress once again: this bill is a huge resource for local governments, for their huge work, which they do, is support for them. This bill is also money for entrepreneurs who now have contracted services and have not yet paid, because there was no money for it. This law is also for individuals who have taken in the heart of the Ukrainian family, and they cannot always afford to keep it. Such help will amount to up to 40 PLN per person. If someone does not feel up to it and makes such a request, then of course such aid from the state, via voivode and self-government, will be received. Ladies and gentlemen! I think this debate shows that working in committee will be interesting, I hope it is less violent and certainly fruitful. We, as the applicant, as the Polish government, are open to wise proposals that the opposition is making - that is what I would like to stress. Not just the opposition, the whole parliament. We see that there is a level of cooperation here and I promise that we will consider these proposals extremely substantively so that we can agree on this law because it is necessary in the present situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u192	Thank you, Minister. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the Government's draft law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in its territory, contained in prints 2069 and 2069-A, to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm, based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, set a time limit for the submission of the report to the committee to be examined at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted a report on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, drawn up at Bridgetown, Barbados on 15 October 2008, print No 2068. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and some other laws (Prints 2019 and 2058). I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government's draft law amending the Law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and certain other laws, print No 2019, was addressed by the Sejm, in accordance with the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, at its 49th meeting on 23 February this year. to the Committee on Public Finance. On 2 March 2022, the project was the subject of a meeting of the Public Finance Committee. The Public Finance Commission asks the High Sejm to approve the attached project. During the committee meeting, many amendments were tabled, both legislative and perhaps primarily legislative, as well as substantive. Here we should appreciate the work of the Legal Office of the Sejm and a thorough and conscientious approach to analysing this specialized, difficult and extensive matter of the law. The draft law implements in Polish law Directive (EU) 2019/2162 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2019 concerning the issuance and public oversight of covered bonds. At the same time, the Act amends nine financial market laws in Poland, three tax laws and others. It is therefore an important and quite complex issue. The objective of the EU regulatory package, namely this directive and this regulation, is to harmonise the rules for the functioning of the covered bond market in the European Union countries and to make this form of long-term capital acquisition more attractive for the banking sector for credit activities, while at the same time increasing the attractiveness of capital placement for low-risk investors. Under Polish terms, bonds are covered by pledge lists issued by specialised mortgage banks. The Polish letter market is in the initial stage of development against the background of European countries. The assets of the five mortgage banks in 2019 accounted for only 2,3% the assets of the banking system. These banks gave 7% housing loans and securities with a value of PLN 1200 million issued on the domestic market. As a result of this revision, the new solutions and requirements to which banks will have to adapt will strengthen the capacity of mortgage banks and other commercial banks to finance the economy. A very important issue included in this Act is to increase the capacity of the Bank's Guarantee Fund to support the forced restructuring of banks and banks, which will prevent weak entities from being wound up. Alternative solution, i.e. the acquisition by another entity instead of liquidation will be supported by financial assistance from the BFG, which means that the activities of these banks will continue in a given environment, they will continue to perform their functions in spite of the difficulties they face at a given stage as a result of their imminent bankruptcy, which will affect the stability of the entire banking system. A useful solution is to enable the creation of self-help mechanisms and to encourage this by creating favourable conditions, i.e. mutual support for larger banks, in the form of forms created for the cooperative sector. These activities will increase the security of the banking system in Poland and its competitiveness. Details of this law were discussed at first reading. At this point, as rapporteur for the Committee on Public Finance, I would just like to draw attention to the nine amendments tabled. They received a positive opinion and a recommendation from the Committee on Public Finance. These amendments, as I mentioned, were of a different nature and specific and substantive nature. One of the important amendments worth noting is Amendment 1, which concerns institutional self-help protection systems that create private entities, i.e. cooperative banks and commercial banks, in the event of their liquidity problems. As this form of self-help contributes to the stabilisation of the whole banking system and the financial system of the State - it works for the benefit of the economy as a whole - corporate tax preferences are proposed here in the form of an exemption from income tax for non-refundable aid granted to participants in the institutional protection system. This also applies to cooperative banks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The loss of budgetary revenue here will be compensated by such a solution by the stabilisation of the banking system. Other solutions are also proposed in this amendment, which are beneficial precisely for the introduction of forms of self-help and self-help protection systems. The Committee on Public Finance therefore proposes the adoption of these nine amendments and proposes that the Sejm adopt the draft law submitted. During the Committee's further work, we will be willing to lean on other necessary legislative changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u194	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, please. I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft amendment of the law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and some other laws in print no. 2019, 2058. Ladies and gentlemen! The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the project, as we have already stated at first reading. I think there is no need to raise the same arguments concerning this law as was presented by the chairwoman of our committee, the rapporteur, Gabriela Masłowska. Mr. Marshal, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I would like to make six amendments to this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u196	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Wojciech Saluga, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go, Wojtek.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u197	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club in relation to the Act amending the Law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and certain other laws. It is quite extensive regulation, going far beyond what we see in the title. There was a rather rapid pace of work in Parliament, as evidenced by, for example, other amendments that we do not yet know, tabled today, now, at second reading, by the representative of the governing coalition. It's gonna be hard for me to relate to that right now. There was quite a discussion here in the High House, at first reading, and during the committee meeting. However, there is something wrong with this regulation that you are making another six amendments. In particular, the draft law amends the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, known as Directive 2019/2162 of 27 November 2019 on the issuance of covered bonds in Poland as pledge lists and of course public supervision of those bonds. Secured bonds are regulated in EU countries unevenly and the process of developing national markets is uneven, and the European Banking Authority therefore recommends harmonisation at European Union level in line with best supervisory practices. In addition, the draft law provides for changes in calls to sign up for the sale or conversion of shares of public companies, which is a response to the observation of developments on the domestic capital market. We hope that these changes will help to improve the call process, and in particular to strengthen the protection of the interests of minority investors. The Act establishes a single threshold of 50% of the transition the total number of votes at the general meeting as a threshold giving rise to the obligation to announce a call to sign up for the sale or exchange of all other shares. And this threshold is set at 50%. It's controversial, it's inquisitive. The Stock Exchange Investors Association raised this during the work of the committee. Unconvincing government indicates why this threshold is 50% not, as in most developed countries, between 24 and 33%. This is the case in most countries of the world, of course the countries that we refer to and to which we want to pursue. Today I also got an e-mail from small energy shareholders. We're gonna want to draw attention to that, too. I don't think we're gonna make it now, but in the Senate, we're gonna look into these issues carefully, whether we're not violating the interests of small shareholders who might lose on this change. To sum up, the Civic Coalition will support this project, but once again, we will look closely at it in the Senate - it is a 50% takeover threshold. and for the appeal of small shareholders, the question is whether the interests of stock exchange investors are being violated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u198	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Tomasz Trela, Parliamentary Club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present my position on behalf of the coalition parliamentary club Left on the government proposal for a law amending the Law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and some other laws. This draft law mainly changes its regulation on the implementation of the European Parliament Directive, which is to align the rules in force in our country with the rules of the European Union. When I first read it, I signaled that the project was extensive, the project was very detailed, but it fits into the alignment with EU legislation. In principle, these regulations are always supported by the Left, and so will be the case in this case. I do not yet have full knowledge of the amendments that were tabled today by the Law and Justice Club, but we will probably settle them at the committee meeting. Two things I want to mention, which, in our view, are quite important in my view. The draft law provides for changes in calls to sign up for the sale or exchange of shares of public companies, which respond to the observation of developments on the domestic capital market. These changes should contribute to the improvement of the call process and, in particular, to strengthening the protection of the interests of minority investors. I would also like to highlight a number of elements relating to this project. Establishment of one 50% threshold the total number of votes at the general meeting as a threshold for taking over the control giving rise to the obligation to announce a call to sign up for the sale or exchange of all other shares; the formation of a uniform model of a mandatory call as a follow-up call; the introduction of a voluntary call mechanism for all other public company shares; the inclusion of the indirect purchase price of public company shares in the setting of a minimum price in the call, the fixing of a minimum price in a call based on fair value, determined on the basis of a valuation carried out on request by an independent audit firm, in the event of insufficient trading in the shares subject to the call. As I said, ladies and gentlemen, the Left supports this draft resolution. We will continue to work on those amendments that have been tabled today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u200	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska. We'll see him on the monitor. Welcome, sir. Hello, Jack. There you go. Something didn't work out. Mr. President, can you hear me? Do you hear me, Jacek? [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u201	Hello? I hear you, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u202	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u203	Thank you very much, Marshal, for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing a law, which, as I mentioned at first reading, covers a very wide range, because it not only introduces into Polish law EU regulations resulting from attempts to systematize legal regulations in individual Member States related to trading on the Polish market with pledge lists, but also introduces a number of amendments to 14 laws, including this draft law provides whether it covers areas which do not directly relate to EU regulations, which we warmly welcome in Polish law. One of these areas is the regulation of paragraph. 3, relating to the possibility of an effective call for the purchase of shares from minority shareholders by a dominant shareholder in a situation where the volume of trading in shares of a public company on the market during the previous 6 months represented less than 1%. This is a requirement that the minority shareholders, such as Energa, pay attention to about 900 people who have asked us parliamentarians to pay attention to this regulation, which in fact makes them forced to sell their shares under the new law. They are often employees, pensioners who have received shares in Energa, either retiring or in connection with its liquidation as a result of the takeover by the oil and energy giant, Orlen Polska. Their concern is that they will be forced to sell Orlen's shares at a very low price, much lower than what they were promised, of course not being able to guarantee, but were promised when these shares as crew members were received and as a result of the new regulations actually will be deprived of being able to cash it at a value higher than the lowest. Therefore, as a coalition club Poland, which includes the Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, we propose an amendment that will increase this share volume to 10%. I hope that this amendment will be recognised in the further work of the Committee on Public Finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u204	Thank you very much, sir. The amendment was made, so we've got it. Let's move on to asking questions. Five people volunteered to ask questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. I ask Mr Rafał Adamczyk from the Left Parliamentary Club to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The National Association of Cooperative Banks submitted opinions, among others. to take account of the protection system referred to in Article. 22 Act on cooperative banks, in the proposed amendments to the Act of 15 February 1992 on corporate income tax. It's an art. Four projects. I would very much ask you to refer to this opinion and these demands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski, parliamentary club Left. Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome. Good morning.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the case of the contested law, two things should be noted. At the last stage of government legislative work on the project without prior public consultation, rules were introduced on the rules for the creation and functioning of a security system for banks operating in the form of public limited liability companies. Cooperative banking sector repeatedly pointed out the problems of tax law related to its effective functioning, in particular the need to exempt CIT from the aid granted to participants in the protection scheme from the aid provided under those schemes. I ask you to answer the question: Have the comments submitted by the National Association of Cooperative Banks been taken into account at a later stage of the work on this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u208	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! 21 February this year The National Association of Cooperative Banks sent a letter to Mr Piotr Patkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. According to the National Association of Cooperative Banks, there is no justification to disregard the already functioning protection schemes in the provisions on the exclusion from income of funds received from the aid fund in part for the implementation of the statutory objectives of the protection scheme in order to consider payments to the aid fund as a cost of obtaining income and to make the income tax exemption in question for funds paid by the participants in the protection scheme and received from the aid fund. It's about solutions in the CIT Act. These solutions were also recommended by the Minister to the Financial Stability Committee on 19 March. I would therefore like to ask: (The bell) has the opinions of these two institutions been taken into account in this report? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Saluga, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u211	Minister! Malta, Lithuania and Latvia are probably not the countries we want to follow, although many good things are happening in these countries. I am saying this because only in these three countries the threshold for taking over is 50%. All other developed countries with which we want to compare have a significantly lower threshold, ranging from 24% to 33%. What was the basis for following the path of these three small countries, these three small economies, and not doing what most of the developed world is doing today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u212	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Piotr Patkowski to give all the answers. Minister, I invite you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first three questions concerned actually the same thread, that is, cooperative banks, so I would like to say that during the work in the Committee on Public Finance, an appropriate amendment, as requested by the banks, was accepted. So that this amendment is already taken into account in the submission of the committee, which has reached its second reading in this House. So that we can consider this matter to be resolved. In order to further develop this thread, I would like to say that these provisions concern IPS in the commercial banking sector. We did not want to add cooperative banks here because this was what another regulation was prepared for, which is currently in the process of agreeing and evaluating. And she also implements the so-called recommendation. the GRASS Committee, acting at the Financial Stability Committee, where, in addition to the Ministry of Finance, there is also BFG, NBP and the Financial Supervision Commission, where the requests for cooperative banking were included. According to a uniform opinion of the PSC, these demands of cooperative banks are correct. Besides, like I said, we were going to implement it. We felt that there was nothing to wait for in such a situation, but that we could implement these changes at the stage of the work of the Public Finance Commission. They are, in particular, tax-related, because here the attention was given to cooperative banks in tax matters and the alignment of IPS for the cooperative sector with IPS for the commercial banking sector, have been implemented. So that it is the submission of the bill to the second reading that you have received, that these changes contain. As regards Mr Salugi's question about public calls, it is worth pointing out first of all that the threshold for calling for all shares at the time of the capital increase is 66%. We're lowering it to 50%, so we're already making a big change and protecting minority investors. Secondly, the project contains a number of other changes for minority investors, which we also discussed at the committee meeting, such as. a voluntary call mechanism for all other public company shares. Today such calls are carried out outside the rigour of the Public Offering Act. We take into account the price of indirect acquisition of shares of a public company in determining the minimum price of the call, increase the use of fair value in determining the price of shares in the call, clarify the rules on securing calls, introduce joint and several liability where the number of callers is more than one, and the solution that the caller will always be obliged to compensate for the price to all parties who have disposed of the shares in the call. I wish there was no such impression that we are weakening minority shareholders in any way after this discussion. On the contrary, we are lowering the threshold from 66 to 50%, and we are making a number of changes that the minority shareholders have been calling for for for a long time. This law is exactly what it contains, which is a law that protects minority shareholders. But it is also impossible to say here that the Polish capital market is a completely different market from the markets of countries such as the United States, Germany or France, which have been fortunate to have been developing for at least a dozen years. The Polish capital market is young, it has not really been in operation since 1989, so we cannot compare 1:1 of what is happening on the Polish market with foreign markets. Why? Since the culture of the capital market in Poland is unfortunately not as developed as in these countries, we therefore need to adapt our solutions to the stage of development in which we are currently located. Secondly, in terms of concentration in the capital market in Poland, it is much smaller in Western countries than in Poland, so the 50% threshold in the case of a market where this degree of concentration is higher, such as Poland, is a completely different threshold than 50% in countries where this degree of concentration It's definitely lower. This is why we are adapting this threshold to the current level, but once again I will stress that this is a project that protects minority shareholders, which reduces the call threshold to 100% from 66 to 50%. and which introduces a number of changes to protect minority shareholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u214	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska. Are you an MP? Great. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u215	I would like to express my satisfaction at this point that all the clubs support this very important bill, and I hope that the doubts you have received have been answered and we will continue to work on this project to improve it in the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u216	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Senior Policy and the Committee on Social and Family Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Bridge Pensions and some other laws (Prints No 2037 and 2062). I would very much like to ask Mrs Bożena Boriss-Raccoon to submit a report to the committee. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to present a report to the Joint Commission: Social and Family Policy and Senior Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Bridge Pensions and some other laws. The basic intention of amending the law is to eliminate the problem of the legal acquisition of the right to a bridge pension, which was conditional on the termination of the employment relationship. After termination of employment, workers were often in a situation where they were not entitled to this bridge pension and were also unemployed. In addition, this project extends the competence of the State Labour Inspection to verify employment under specific or specific conditions. Let me just add that this extension of the powers of the State Labour Inspection is due to take place on 1 January 2023. In addition, the Act introduces a codification of programmes for improving working conditions with the Prevention Fund. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, sent the above draft to the Senior Committee and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for first reading. Joined committees on 7 March this year. carry out the first reading and consider the above draft law and bring to the High Sejm the adoption of the attached draft law in accordance with print no. 2037. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u218	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Michael Szczerba from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition, to speak. Did something happen to me? [[And the Law and Justice?]] [[Voice from the room: There is no law and justice.]] Yeah, well, I know there isn't. I believe you've given me a list of people who have asked questions. [[Yes, questions, not on behalf of the clubs.]] Good. We're gonna get this storm under control in a minute. No problem. He's already in control. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I'm inviting you in, and I'm sorry about the little...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the Law on Bridge Pensions and some other laws, print No 2037. The Law of 19 December 2008 on bridge pensions regulates inter alia. the conditions for the acquisition of the right to interim benefit in the form of a bridge pension, the types of work under specific conditions and of a specific nature, the exercise of which entitles the bridge pension. The Act introduces changes to the expected and resolving significant practical problems indicated by applicants for bridge pensions. An important problem was the necessary condition for the insured not to remain in the employment relationship when determining the right to a bridge pension. The need to meet this condition has put applicants for this benefit at risk of losing their only source of income without guaranteeing the right to a bridge pension. The project submitted contains solutions for the benefit of the insured - repealing the requirement to terminate the employment relationship in determining the bridge pension. Thanks to the proposed termination, the pension authority will decide to grant a bridge pension to the person who seeks to establish the right to that pension before the termination of the employment relationship if it fulfils the other conditions. This pension will not be paid and will be suspended. The submission also proposes to extend the powers of the State Labour Inspection to control the employer's list of posts on which work is carried out under specific or specific conditions. The proposed amendment aims to strengthen the protection of insured persons seeking to establish the right to a bridge pension. The determination of this right depends primarily on the insured person having the required period of employment under special conditions or of a specific nature. The proposed changes also aim to increase the number of people covered by the projects to improve safety and working conditions, especially for large enterprises, employing more workers. This law will ensure equal access of entrepreneurs, regardless of the size of the company, to the financing of the actions of the payers of contributions aimed at maintaining their ability to work throughout their working life - so-called. the co-financing programme - as part of accident prevention. The project also includes transitional provisions to protect the interests of insured persons. The provisions on conditions for obtaining the right to a bridge pension and checking records and lists would be more favourable for the worker to apply to proceedings in which no final decisions have been issued before the date of entry into force of the proposed rules. Given that this project significantly improves the legal and social security of insured persons, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u220	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u221	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition presents the position of the club on the government draft law amending the law on bridge pensions and certain other laws, print No 2037. The Bridge Pension Act of 19 December 2008 regulates the conditions for the acquisition of the right to periodic benefit in the form of a bridge pension. Bridge pension is a temporary benefit which is entitled to the general retirement age. It is addressed to persons performing work under special conditions or of a specific nature, in which, with age, the ability to do work is greatly reduced, which is linked to the declining psychophysical capacity of the worker. The amendments to the Act so far have been few, have been adapted and have been linked to the entry into force of the new social security legislation. This draft law amends the Bridge Pension Act, the Social Insurance Act, the Social Insurance Act for accidents at work and occupational diseases and the State Labour Inspection Act. The government's solutions aim to facilitate the acquisition of the right to bridge pensions. The main problem that has arisen in the practical application of the existing regulations was that the insured person did not remain in the employment relationship. Another problem raised in the application of the rules was the lack of certainty of the employer paying the contribution to the Post-Most Pension Fund for which the staff member should be reimbursed. The changes under review concern the extension of the powers of the State Labour Inspection. The new rules will allow the State Labour Inspection to assess the process of qualification of the employer as work under specific or specific conditions. The State Labour Inspection shall be entitled to control the employer's list of posts on which work is carried out under specific conditions or of a specific nature. The draft law also provides for a uniform level of funding for projects aimed at improving health and safety at work. The funding will be 80% the estimated amount for all undertakings, regardless of the number of persons employed. This applies to projects financed by the accident fund. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of the enduring nature of bridge pensions is increasingly recognised. In the current legal situation, one of the basic conditions for obtaining a bridge pension is to work under specific conditions or of a specific nature before 1 January 1999. This condition makes the bridge pension scheme a retirement pension scheme and the younger persons who entered the labour market and have taken up work in harmful conditions after 1 January 1999 do not fulfil one of the conditions for obtaining a bridge pension. The proposed law does not solve the problem of using bridge pensions, but merely cleans up certain provisions and simplifies. In addition, further professional groups demand the possibility of using bridge pensions. I propose that the Minister responsible for. Social security has considered reviewing labour criteria under specific conditions in order to determine what professions should actually be regarded as working under specific and specific conditions. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will support the proposed changes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u222	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u223	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Left Club on the government draft law on bridge pensions and some other laws. It's a 2037 print project. A bridge pension was created as a special benefit for workers who, because of their particular difficulty, the burden associated with it or the risks associated with it, result in a faster loss of health preventing it from continuing long before the retirement age. Continuing to do your job becomes impossible, to retire far and eat You need it right here, right now. It is at this point that the possibility of applying for a bridge pension, which allows you to survive until you retire properly. The receipt of such a bridge pension requires and required a number of conditions, which, unfortunately, has not been so simple since the beginning of the law and has involved a number of important problems. First of all, in order for the procedure for granting a bridge pension at all to begin, the employment relationship had to be terminated. This principle has just been criticised the most, because it has caused the risk of being left without means of life if such a pension was not granted and the employment relationship has already been resolved. In the current project that we are discussing right now, this problem is finally solved. It is a pity, of course, that only now, because for years trade unions, state authorities or themselves have pointed out that such regulations are needed. It is also appropriate to refer here to another comment which was notified by OPZZ, namely the enduring nature of bridge pensions, which, as the Act states, relate to persons performing work of a particular nature before 1999. This means that young people, e.g. have taken up work under dangerous conditions after 2000, do not fulfil one of the conditions and fall outside the circle of people who can apply for such a bridge pension. I would ask that this attention put forward by the trade unions should not pass indifferently, but be taken into account in further legislative work on bridge pensions. The removal of this condition requires the adaptation of other laws to ensure that the change is effective in its entry into force. One of the consequences will be that the State Labour Inspection receives a legal basis for a substantive assessment of the nature of the work and forcing employers to keep records of such employees. Although the State Labour Inspection has been investigating such records since the beginning, as soon as it has made a substantive assessment of the nature of the work, the assessment was questioned by the administrative courts precisely because of the legal basis for such action. The current proposal for a change in this respect should be counted as a plus, although it should also be recalled that the State Labour Inspection, as we speak loudly in the Party together, as well as in the entire Left Club, must also be well funded, supported and supported by a system, so that it can effectively take care of the rights of workers and carry out the tasks entrusted to it. For nothing new powers of inspection, which will have no hands and resources to exercise these powers. It is also worth noting that the idea of matching the amount of funding for projects to improve safety and working conditions to 80% is appropriate, so that for larger companies with more than 250 employees they are attractive regardless of the size of the employer, as so far the amount of funding depends on the number of employees. The more they were, the smaller the amount was, and in some places only 20%. This correction is a step in the right direction, especially in the face of the experience of the impact of the Coronavirus pandemic on business. The Left Club will support this bill, but at the same time we point out that this does not completely close possible work on the subject of the functioning of bridge pensions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u224	Thank you very much. Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u225	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I present the position of the club regarding the draft law amending the law on bridge pensions. The solutions proposed in this amendment meet the expectations of workers and employers. The original law was not amended for significant changes or solutions regarding current realities. These were only changes linked to the entry into force of the new social security legislation. This law provides favourable solutions to ensure that those applying for a bridge pension are not, as is often the case under current legislation, exposed to job losses and thus to the only source of income. If it does not meet the necessary conditions for determining the right to a bridge pension, it will protect it by losing its livelihood and making it not fall out of the labour market. It should be noted that the bridge pension relates to a group of persons performing work under specific conditions or of a specific nature, in which, with age, the ability to perform work related to the declining psychophysical capacity of the worker is greatly reduced. This law also increases the powers of the State Labour Inspection. This is beneficial from the point of view of the worker and the employer, because they will allow the employer to assess the process of qualification as work under specific conditions or work of a specific nature. In practice, such changes will give State Labour Inspection the opportunity to interfere specifically with the content of the list of work carried out by employers while avoiding exposure, from the point of view of State Labour Inspection and insured persons, to the unfavourable case law of the administrative courts on the subject concerned by the Act. The changes to the Law on State Labour Inspection will also contribute more to the protection of workers, since the complaint to the State Labour Inspection will benefit the employee not only in a situation where he has not been placed by the employer in the register of workers performing work under special conditions or of a specific nature, but also in a situation where, despite the inclusion in that register, the employment position in which he carries out work under special conditions or of a specific character, he is not included in the list kept by the employer. According to the proposed provisions, which responds to employers' demands, larger companies will be able to obtain higher funding for projects to improve safety and working conditions. As of 1 January 2013, as part of the accident prevention, a new action has been launched: the funding of the contribution payers' activities aimed at maintaining their working capacity throughout their working life. Since 2018, the co-financing programme has been implemented in the form of a competition, which is announced annually by the President of the Social Security Office. At this point, the percentage of the grant depends on the number of employees. The amendment of the Act assumes a uniform percentage share of 80% for all employers the estimated value of the project. Such a change will encourage large employers to make even greater efforts and engage in actions to improve security. Therefore, the club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party is in favour of the changes proposed in this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u226	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u227	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I will recommend to my colleagues from the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 the support of this law, because it is a law that changes or improves the situation of insured persons, so it is obvious. However, I must say that as a person, who has so far been an important institution of the Polish State, which is a bridge pension, has never dealt with it, I am surprised and surprised that for so many years as Sejm, parliamentarians, legislators we have tolerated such a situation in which de facto case law and practice were different and contrary to what we designed ourselves when this law was created. There have been so many interventions aimed at different ministers, different governments, and only now is this change being implemented. It is good that she is now, but it seems to me that we as politicians should be ashamed of the fact that only now, because - in a moment I will ask the Minister - how many people had to say goodbye to the bridge pension precisely because the rules were wrongly formulated? Therefore, I wanted to ask the Minister to review, update those criteria that speak about specific conditions and the specific nature of work, because times are changing and these criteria should keep up with what is happening in the world. I am convinced that if you do not make such an update, Minister, we will have to deal again with people who will not receive the money due to the bridge pension because of the fact that some articles and regulations will not keep up with the environment and what is happening in Poland. I would also like to express my indignation at all that was included in yesterday's speech at the Vice-President's committee, if I recall correctly, the State Labour Inspection, which de facto said that it did not want to perform the duties it should perform and that it protests against these duties. I think it was absolutely unacceptable and really deserves to be condemned on our part. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u228	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. We have 10 questions... [[If I may add more...]] We have 11 questions. [[Thank you very much, Marshal.]] You're welcome. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Is Mr Szczerba in the Chamber? Mr Przemysław Koperski. We have nine questions. Mr Rafał Adamczyk. We have eight questions. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska. Finally, somebody... [[Disciplined.]] ...with a question, disciplined. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u229	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The new rules impose on the State Labour Inspection an assessment of the employer's qualification as being carried out under specific conditions or of a specific nature and control of the employer's list of posts on which the work is carried out. At yesterday's committee meeting, the Chief Labour Inspector raised reservations about these changes. He signalled that two different procedures would arise as a result of this amendment: the administrative procedure carried out by the State Labour Inspection and the procedure before common courts. This may lead to a number of disputes as to whether the right to a bridge pension will depend on a certain number of years worked or on registration. This may also lead to an extension of the process of enforcing their rights by employees. Should not such control be entrusted only to courts specialised in the recognition of such disputes? In the situation in which we are currently in (the bell), the influx of Ukrainian refugees and their employment, the State Labour Inspection should focus primarily on protecting the workers' rights of Ukrainian citizens and possible countering their exploitation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, 14 December 2021 at the first reading of the Civil Project on the so-called Internship pensions Minister Stanisław Szwed said this: There is not yet a government position for this project. It is being developed in our ministry, but in general we want to discuss it because it is important. It's been almost three months. I would like to ask the Minister what work is going on in the Ministry on adopting the government's position on bridge pensions. 0.5 million people in Poland expect the Polish Parliament to take up work. We have sent an appropriate letter to the President of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family so that these work can continue. Madam President said that there are no (the bell) appropriate positions and opinions yet. Therefore, it is clear for today that the lack of a government position makes it impossible to work on this law. Please answer the question: At what stage is the government's position on internship pensions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u232	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The purpose of the Act is to grant a bridge pension to persons who apply for it before the termination of their employment. Representatives of the State Labour Inspection point out that changes can lead to an extension, even twice, of a person's application for a bridge pension in relation to what is currently happening. According to the government, is there a real threat to this situation? Will the State Labour Inspection be able to prepare within these months for the changes made in terms of staff that will be needed to handle such a number of activities? How many new posts will have to be created in order for this body to be able to implement changes to the law without problems, and what will be the cost? And were the funds secured for this purpose? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u234	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u235	Thank you. Minister! I have a quick question. I have already mentioned this in the club's speech that bridge pensions are of a debilitating nature, concern people who did work of a particular nature before 1990 and young people who entered the labour market after 2000 do not fulfil one condition and therefore fall out of the group of people who can apply for such a bridge pension. And here's the question: are you working on such solutions to fill this gap? I know that there is still a lot of time for these people, but it seems to me that there is no need to wait for the last moment, it is necessary to prepare such rules, all the more so since yesterday at the committee meeting it was clear that this project you submitted, the government project was also sometimes sloppyly prepared. The Legislative Office had a lot of amendments that were made, so maybe we should start working on complementing this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u236	Thank you very much. Mrs Karolin Pavlichak, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is a legitimate project, responding to the needs and voices of many circles, especially trade unions, who have requested this bill for many years. Making it possible to apply for a bridge pension even before the termination of the employment relationship and extending the scope of control by the State Labour Inspection are key changes. The amendment, which is important, is intended to protect the applicant from losing his or her job if he or she does not fulfil the necessary conditions for determining the right to a bridge pension, but the wider powers of labour inspection will not solve all the problems, particularly in relation to past years. How, then, will work cases be dealt with in particular conditions and the failure to notify the position concerned in the relevant registers, as well as the non-payment of contributions to the Pension Fund in respect of the earlier period prior to the entry into force of the Act? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u238	Thank you very much. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bridge pension project is certainly an expected project, as it cleans up a sector in terms of social security and meets the expectations of one of the recipient groups. Of course, as a temporary solution, we are not in any way concerned, but I would like to ask you about further government plans in this regard. In the next step, once bridge pensions have been extinguished, will you intend to extend the current solution? Do you have any plans to make another proposal for such persons? When can we expect a project in this regard? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u240	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The amended act was expected. In 2020, out of the 23 900 applicants, the refusal of the decision concerned 9,5 thousand, more than 4700 of which are currently being eliminated. It's very important. My question is whether the other conditions for obtaining a bridge pension will be maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u242	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Mucha, around 2050 Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, Poland 2050. I would like to ask you a very simple question. How many people have not received a bridge pension since this institution has ever existed because of this condition that we are eliminating today? I understand you may not have accurate data, but at least estimates. And second question: In what way, how do such corrections possibly occur in these registers as to work under specific conditions and with a specific character? And can we expect that they will actually be verified on an ongoing basis? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u244	Thank you very much. Ms Joanna Fly's question from Poland 2050 was the last question. We ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to all the clubs for supporting this bill, an important bill. I would also like to remind you that this law has previously been positively considered by the entire Council of Social Dialogue and has gained the support of both the trade unions and employers and the government. That's why it's changed. As far as questions are concerned, maybe I should start by asking the honourable Member how many people have not taken advantage of this law. If we look at 2020 because we have the latest data, the number of negative decisions amounted to more than 9.5 thousand, including those which were refused because these conditions concerning termination of employment were not met - 4700. This is the data for 2020, of course, here I have data from the period from 2015. But in order to clarify this, it is also worth recalling here that the general rule in the pension system is to terminate the employment contract. This entitles us to issues relating to the acquisition of pension rights. In this case it was similar, but here with regard to the list of these persons, their numbers turned out later when they were counted by the Social Insurance Institution for years entitlement to this benefit that there was something missing out there. Some employers, of course, went to the hands of workers and accepted them back to work, so that this issue was positively resolved here, but there were also situations where the worker was losing the opportunity to make up for this missing period. As regards the general question concerning the enduring nature of bridge pensions, it should be recalled that we introduced bridge pensions in 2008 and that it was the assumption that these pensions were of an enduring nature. It was then that the Bridge Pension Fund was created, and employers transferred 1.5% to this fund. The assumption was that, over time, specific conditions and harmful conditions would not exist, that the situation would improve so much that there would not be such jobs. That's why it's a solution. It is also worth recalling that a change in the pension system was also made in 1998. The Constitutional Tribunal settled these issues: those 10 years from 1998 to 2008 did not qualify as years of work in harmful conditions for workers who worked under these conditions. Therefore, these solutions, which are at the moment, still fulfil those conditions concerning the criterion. So before 1999, we had to work, too, after 2008. On this issue, there is a discussion in the Social Dialogue Council, which is to be found for the period after 2033, whether or not this fading character will be preserved. It is also worth recalling here that, as far as the Pension Fund is concerned, in general at the moment, the payment to this fund is a contribution from the state budget. PLN 1.5 billion was the cost in 2021 - 1,200 million were from the state budget, only over PLN 300 million were paid by employers. So this mechanism, which was supposed to make employers go away from these special conditions, didn't really work either. The objective of end-of-life bridge pensions was not achieved. Therefore, it will probably be necessary to look for a solution that will allow for the post-2033 period to regulate these issues as regards the enduring nature of pensions. As for the question about internship pensions, we are working on a position, and we are also waiting for the first reading of the presidential project, which is in the marshal's staff. So that I think that we will work together on solutions for internship pensions. It is also possible, of course, to discuss specific conditions when it comes to internship pensions, because I think that in this respect a forward-looking solution could also be found for this particular issue relating to bridge pensions, which are foreseen on time, as I said, defined. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u246	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm gonna say that projects like this are my thing. I like projects that we all agree on. And here we come up against the social partners above all, because this project has been the subject of many months of work in the Social Dialogue Council. And basically that's why I wanted to take the floor to thank you for this substantive discussion and, above all, for supporting this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u248	Thank you, Member. I think if the social partners were in the gym, they would also thank us. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the Act - Water Law (prints No. 2051 and 2054). I would very much like to ask Mr Jerzy Materna to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Joint Commission: Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and Local Government and Regional Policy, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Act - Water Law, Print Nos 2051 and 2054. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft to the Joint Committee for first reading on 25 February 2022. On 2 March 2022, the first reading of the draft law was held in the Joint Commissions: Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy. In the first reading, the Members tabled two amendments. The first was clear and accepted. The second amendment, which extended the deadline for the decision to 60 days, was rejected in the vote. The third point is the amendments tabled by the Legislative Bureau. These are eight amendments of an ordering nature which have been adopted by the joint committees. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendments to the Act of 20 July 2017 - Water law aims to improve the process of creating places occasionally used for bathing, introducing improvements in the procedure for the creation of such places. Changes in this area include: to: firstly, to combine the procedure for granting consent by the competent authority of the municipality with the procedure for making a water application by submitting a single application in this respect to one body; secondly, to change the form of consent of the municipal council to the silent settlement of the matter or to the opposition of the mayor, mayor or president of the city, which will speed up the procedure for granting such consent; thirdly, to apply to the consent of the municipality of the silent settlement of the matter; fourthly, to shorten the time for making water application from 30 to 21 days; fifthly, to reduce the elements of the notification and its annexes by resignation. from the inclusion of extracts and sketches from the local spatial planning plan. In this respect, relevant data will be available to the mayor, mayor or mayor of the city, who will be able to verify the compatibility of the purpose with the spatial planning in force at that time. At the same time, it should be stressed that these changes are not intended to encourage the creation of new places occasionally used for bathing, since no changes in the form of incentives or exemptions are envisaged in this respect. This draft law even provides for a clarification of the provisions determining, first, the grounds for refusing to create such sites, including examples of restrictions on the creation of such sites, where it is appropriate to set up a bathing area; secondly, the length of the period for which such sites may be created - 30 consecutive days and not selected days - which is intended to reduce the creation of places occasionally used for bathing not in accordance with their intended purpose instead of bathing sites, and in situations where other relevant conditions, including environmental conditions, exist, justify the abandonment of such sites. Therefore, the regulations introduced in this respect comply with the provisions of Directive 2006/7/EC limiting the number of places created occasionally for bathing only in cases where this is justified. This Act simplifies only procedures for the creation of places occasionally used for bathing, improving the functioning of public administrations, while preserving all the legal conditions to date regarding the establishment of such sites, inter alia. the arrangements for sanitary, environmental requirements. As the practice points out, the adoption of a resolution on consent to the organisation of the place occasionally (the bell) used for bathing by the council of the municipality is one of the longest ongoing stages of the process of organising the place occasionally used for bathing. This is due to the fact that the meetings of the municipality council are held with varying regularity, in particular during the holiday period. It happens that the municipality council does not meet within a time limit which allows the organisation of a place occasionally used for bathing during the assumed period. In addition, the removal of the obligation to obtain the consent of the municipality council will not adversely affect the safety of bathers, as the organiser of the place occasionally used for bathing will continue to be obliged to carry out the tests and the presence of water rescuers will be necessary during the bath. The Act shall enter into force on the day following its publication in view of conditions improving the lives of citizens. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees have adopted a draft law with no objection and recommend to the High House that the proposed law be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u250	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Arthur Szałabawka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the draft law amending the Act - Water Law, prints No. 2051 and 2054. I must point out that the rapporteur, Jerzy Materna, has clearly presented the positives, as well as some kind of sharpening that may be beneficial to those who take baths who take bath rules seriously, but I will add a few things. The proposal for a law amending the Act - Water Law aims to facilitate and streamline the process of creating places occasionally used for bathing, thus reducing the time needed to carry out the associated procedure, which should be compatible with EU law, but is a little complicated. The changes made will allow for the creation of places occasionally used for bathing within 30 days of the date on which the relevant application was submitted by the person concerned, where there is no contraindication related inter alia. with the protection of the environment, public health or safety of bathers. The proposed amendments aim to simplify the procedure while maintaining all the legal conditions for the creation of such sites. I am talking about this very briefly because the Member has presented these issues quite solidly. The project envisages, among others, replacing the current required consent of the municipal council, expressed by resolution, to create a place occasionally used to bathe an institution of silent consent of the mayor, mayor or the president of the city. This solution is currently being applied in many other, simpler matters, other aspects. In order to speed up and simplify the procedure for obtaining consent to the creation of places occasionally used for bathing and carrying out water law applications, the so-called institution was introduced into the draft law. one window - as the rapporteur also said - allowing the whole process to be coordinated by the governor, the mayor or the president of the city, who will mediate in the process of obtaining water applications in the Polish Waters, i.e. Instead of submitting two applications, the organiser of the place occasionally used for bathing will address the mayor, mayor or president to whom he will submit the request to the competent authority for water applications. The removal of the existing obligation to obtain the approval of the municipality council will not adversely affect the safety of bathers, as the organiser of the place occasionally used for bathing will continue to be obliged to comply with the basic principles. The most important thing is to ensure a sufficient number of water rescuers and to comply with health care requirements, e.g. concerning water quality tests. The proposed law will benefit entrepreneurs who create bathing sites because of the simplification of the procedure for obtaining authorisation for the creation of such sites, as well as for citizens and households, because if they wish to create an occasional place for them, it will be a very simplified procedure. It will also benefit older people and people with disabilities and create places for them occasionally used for bathing. Finally, I would like to inform you that the aim is to allow citizens to benefit from new rules that are more favourable to them as soon as possible before the upcoming bathing season. As the date of entry into force of the Act was adopted the day following the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the Law. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports this bill and will vote in favour of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u252	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm sorry, but I'm in the committee at the same time. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u254	You're just a busy man.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition has the honour to present the position of the club on the draft law amending the Act - Water Law, print no. 2051 and 2054. The proposed amendments to the Act of 20 July 2017 - Water law aims to improve the process of creating places occasionally used for bathing, as well as procedures for creating such places. Changes in this area include: by combining the procedure for granting consent by the competent authority of the municipality with the procedure for making a water application, changing the form of consent from the resolution of the municipal council to the silent settlement of the matter or the opposition of the mayor or president of the city, applying to the consent of the municipality of an institution silently dealing with the matter, shortening the time allowed for making water application, limiting the elements of the application and its annexes by resigning, inter alia. from the requirement to include extracts and sketches from the local spatial planning plan. The draft law provides for clarification of the provisions setting out the grounds for refusing to create such sites and the length of the period for which such sites can be opened. The amendment of the Act will significantly simplify the creation of places occasionally used for bathing, as the creation of such sites will not require an administrative decision, but will be linked only with the time necessary for the competent authority to consider the case. The removal of the obligation to obtain the consent of the municipality council will not adversely affect the safety of bathers, as the organiser of the place occasionally used for bathing will continue to be obliged to comply with the rules in this respect. The proposed solutions specify that the maximum time allowed for setting up a place occasionally used for bathing will be 30 days and that the organiser of such a place will be able to set it up within the time limit up to 31 days from the date of submission of the application. It is a pity that the amendment did not receive the approval of the committee, which meant issuing permits to create places occasionally used for bathing for a period of 60 days, which, given the length of Polish holidays, seemed a reasonable solution. Unfortunately, the Deputy Minister who was referring to the project was very resistant to arguments. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say that I feel uncomfortable in discussing the law on places occasionally used to bathe, having a picture of bombarded cities of Ukraine in front of my eyes. But I know that we are here to create a better law, to create a new law for the security of Poland and for Poles, to facilitate their life and economic activity. I also know that even though we are an opposition, our voters expect us to support the laws proposed by the government which will improve the safety of Poland and the quality of life of their citizens. But our voters also expect us to look at the power of our hands so that, on this tragic occasion, she does not try, as she likes to do, to smuggle in the law-making solutions that benefit only her or restrict citizens' rights. Our voters also expect us to react when the authorities willingly take credit for and do the work of citizens, NGOs and local governments. Be assured that these expectations of our voters will be fulfilled by the letter. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will support the draft law on amending the Act - Water Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u256	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Member of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u257	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law amending the Water Law Act. Indeed, in the situation we are dealing with at this moment, during the war, when there are many casualties, it would seem that we should not be dealing with this issue, but I think it is important from the point of view of normal functioning and that this war will probably end someday, it will certainly end someday. Summer will come and our entrepreneurs, our residents, our tourists will want to relax on the Polish sea and Polish lakes. For the record, the Minister and the government must be commended for the fact that this bill is on the agenda, but unfortunately, as usual... We always urge that if we want to simplify something, something we want to help entrepreneurs, we just have to go all the way. I'll talk about the deadlines in a moment, because we're arguing with the Minister about 30 days or 60 days. But as you read the justification, I'll admit it honestly - and in the future it's worth paying attention to... Because there is such a provision in the explanatory memorandum: At the same time, it should be stressed that the amendments in question, which are in this law, are not intended to encourage the creation of new places occasionally used for bathing. In my view, the law should rather encourage the creation of these places. If it's not to encourage, then why do we have to present this bill? So I would like to point out that there is some error in the justification or even error in the thinking of the ministry. In turn, the following page states that the introduction of this procedure will significantly simplify the creation of places occasionally used for bathing. So there's something positive after all. But on the last page of the justification, to my surprise and surprise probably all of us, it says that the project will have a positive impact on the elderly and the disabled if they apply for a place occasionally used to bathe. To be honest, I think the purpose and intention of this law is different, namely, to use our beautiful lakes to make them available to young people and to the elderly and to the disabled. Because, Minister, I want to say one thing. In Poland, lakes with a size of more than 1 ha have about 9 thousand. I think the Minister knows how many bathing sites we have. We have 657, of which we have 496 bathing sites at these lakes. But I took the liberty of finding out how many places we have occasionally used to bathe across the country, on our 9,000. lakes. To my surprise, there is information publicly provided on the Ministry's pages - 189 seats. Therefore, this law is intended to help create these places and facilitate them, and it is not - as you write - that this is not the aim. That's exactly what this bill should do, because it's scandalous that there's only 189 places like this. It means that these regulations simply do not work because entrepreneurs, tourism organisers do not want to organize these places. I'm gonna focus on my beautiful Drawski Lake District because I'm from West Pomerania. There are 587 lakes. You ask the Drawskie Lakers to be such second Mazury. I also became interested in how many bathing sites we have in the Drawskie Lake District, where there are 587 lakes. Number of bathing sites - nine, number of places occasionally used for bathing - two. This is a problem. That's why, Minister, on behalf of the Left Club, I'm really asking for one thing. Verify your position. Baths run from 1 June to 30 September. The entry concerning the change from 30 days to 60 days is a record that in our assessment will cause a much larger number of operators and organizers to be interested in such bathing areas for the period of July and August simply to create, with full infrastructure. Therefore, on behalf of the Left Club, we make this amendment in the belief that the ruling majority will accept it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Once again, I would like to say: very good direction of change, but I appeal: Minister, go all the way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u258	Thank you, sir. I was overwhelmed by this information about nine bathing sites in your beautiful region. [[Yeah, I'm afraid so.]] Let's get some work over there. We will see Mrs Urszula Nowogórska on the screen. Good morning, Member. There you go. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u259	Good morning, Mr. Marshal. I apologize for my vote right away, but at the least appropriate moment, people get sick. I'm so sorry. Mr. Marshal! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Coalition Club - PSL, the Union of European Democrats with regard to Parliamentary Printing No. 2051, on amending the Act - Water Law. In the explanatory memorandum of the Act we read that the act aims to improve, accelerate the process of creating places occasionally used for bathing. I was determined to say that Poland is a beautiful country and its values should be used as best as possible, without forgetting, of course, the facilitations, but also bearing in mind safety. I would also like to point out that the aim of these procedural changes that we are making today in the Act is to encourage the creation of new bathing sites by facilitating and shortening the procedures for water reporting and shortening the time of opinion. This can indeed improve the procedure in this regard. On the other hand, I took the liberty of consulting this project very quickly with different environments and I had many questions. Let me put these questions in my speech and I ask the Ministry to answer them. I wonder if this draft law was consulted with representatives and local authorities, because it is really limited in some way by the competences of the municipalities' councils. The law took the competence of the municipalities to agree in the form of a resolution and replaced it with a form of silent settlement. It only introduced the possibility of consent or disagreement regarding the location and activity of the local government in the case of the governor, the mayor, the President. Bathing places, Mr. Marshal, require special attention and concern because of the expectation of safety in the tank itself and its surroundings. I have a question: Will the amendment of the Act not cause negligence in this regard and will it not make it possible for persons who report and organise temporary bathing sites to do so without the necessary strength and means in this regard? This raises another question: Who in the event of the occurrence of e.g. will he be fully responsible for the irregularities involved in the organisation? Will it be the mayor, the president or the owner, or the person making the application and applying for the organisation of occasional bathing sites? It takes a lot of money to ensure bathing safety. I have another question, which also came out of the field: Will the organisation of such temporary bathing sites by chance not limit the possibility of financial spending and will not translate directly into the quality of the services provided, e.g. Water rescuers, and preparation of accompanying infrastructure? Of course, we support the idea of extending the possibility of organising bathing sites in designated places, we do not deny this law, we are glad that it can enter the legal order, while we place great emphasis on ensuring the proper organisation of safety in such places, using the appropriate environmental and geographical advantages that our country has. My previous speakers have already said, Mr. Marshal, that because of what is happening behind our eastern border, a little bit of priorities are changing, and many issues are being addressed. We therefore urge that, with regard to other laws, which may not directly affect the situation that we are currently dealing with, we really attach great importance to ensuring security in places where this is only possible, we call for carefulness - with regard to this law, but also with regard to all the others that we are going to proceed on in the forum of the Polish Parliament. The position of the Polish Coalition Club - PSL, the Union of European Democrats will be such that we are waiting for answers, we will watch closely this law, but we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u260	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Michael Urbaniak, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The cold period of the year is almost over, and the bathing area will be used occasionally for the next few months. So far, many things in our country have often been a problem, a problem due to the difficulties of regulations, the complexity, and sometimes the officials have approached citizens who wanted to deal with such simple matters, because this is not a strategic thing from the point of view of our country's action. As a Confederation, we have always been willing to re-bureaucratize the state so that there is no official pier here, so that the state is friendly to the citizen, that the Pole does not feel in his country as an undesirable element, entering the office, so that he can be served properly and quickly. We therefore support the simplification of the rules on these occasional places. It's not a thing that needs a lot of approval. It should be enough to report this completely, in accordance with the principle of one window, in a simplified form, with as few formalities as possible, with as few documents as possible, because if anybody wants to, they will bathe in places for this unmarked. So let's just be human, be flexible, and let's let them take baths like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u262	Thank you very much. This call was concluded by the Member. And I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050. There you go. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u263	Ladies and gentlemen of the Marshals! Ladies and gentlemen! Like my previous speakers, I also feel some kind of discomfort, a lot of discomfort, speaking from this seymary on bathing grounds, while behind our eastern border there is war. And I also felt so uncomfortable when I called our friends. We as Poland 2050, as a party we have our alter ego in the form of the association Poland 2050, which this association gathers many people of good will. These people are at the border today, these people at every border point are running aid stations today. Our volunteers are there. Many of them are bridesmaids and bridesmaids, Girl Scouts and Boy Scouts, and it was them - I felt foolish to draw them away from the work they do in this job - they say that today's regulations are just completely inhuman and irrational. You have to submit extensive documentation concerning water law permits, drawings from plans, altitude maps from voivodship offices and others, and there are a lot of fees. These documents are submitted to various offices, which are often separated from each other. This whole procedure makes it necessary to submit the documentation in March so that there's a chance of having a bath in July. This is completely irrational. It's a good thing we're finally changing that. Of course, I will recommend to my colleagues in Poland 2050 that they vote in favour of this law, but also for this amendment, which has been tabled. I don't understand why we're working on a change that's talking about 30 days of a place like this, but we can't just let it work all summer. After all, that would be the most natural thing to do. And finally, a few more words. Ladies and gentlemen, still with regard to children and young people, drowning is the second most common cause of death of young Poles. When I was in the ministry, we started a great program I can swim. It was a program that was meant for children from the third grade of primary school. Unfortunately, it was not continued, certainly not on the scale on which it was to be continued - it was meant to be a population scale. I ask the Ministry to make contact with the Ministry of Sport so that they can work on these popular programs that will make Polish children able to swim and know how to behave on such bathing sites. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u264	Thank you very much. Mrs Fly's speech ended with a series of club speeches and circles. We're going to ask questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis, will be the first to speak. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Then maybe a friend of mine will benefit from his absence. [[I can, of course.]] That's very much Mr Evening.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are talking about the number of bathing sites, but I think that in addition to the draft legislation and legislative solutions that will facilitate the creation of such bathing sites, an important issue is the encouragement of local authorities and tourism organisers to create such safe places. I'm thinking about bathing grounds and occasional places. In this connection, I have a question for the Minister: Did the Ministry not plan to set up programmes financed by the European Union, such a programme for the construction of bathing sites and places occasionally used for bathing? This would undoubtedly be a great help for local authorities and tourism organisers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u266	Thank you very much, sir. I do not see Mrs Margaret Navel in the Chamber. So - reliable Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. [[Voice from the O.R.: It's in place.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This is an important act to improve the procedure for launching occasional bathing sites. Statistics show that 460 people drowned in 2020. The most common circumstances associated with these drownings - the drowning in lakes and rivers - were bathing in unguarded places, but at the same time those where this bath was not prohibited. In view of the above, I would like to ask whether the safety statistics were being carried out, namely, drowning in those places where the baths were taking place, and the organisers had the right permission to do so. Data show that in 2021 there were 251 organisers of bathing sites. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that the data? If so, please answer the question. And the second question is to improve safety on these occasional bathing sites. What steps will be taken to make the number of drownings really smaller? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u268	Thank you very much. I now ask the floor of Arthur Szałabawka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to these conversations... Maybe I'll ask you a question first. The question to the Minister: Will this bill make it easier and easier to ensure safety by bathing sites and occasional bathing sites? I would also like to refer to Mr Wieczorek's statement on the Drawski Laker and his jealousy towards the Mazurski Laker. I wouldn't be so jealous, because really how much... I know the Drawskie Lake District very well, too. Many people come, such as my friends from Warsaw, divers, it's a large water environment... We are very jealous of the fact that we have so pristine land that sometimes not available. It is also a very large value of our voivodship. Some say that the Drawskie Lake District is a unique region in this area. I wouldn't necessarily want us to have this built up and that there's so much investment going on around the lakes. Mr Wieczorek knows exactly what this is about. As for this quantity - she should be safe, but we should also learn to swim as much as possible. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u270	Thank you very much. This list of Members has been exhausted. Mr Grzegorz Witkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u271	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the beginning, there is an explanation, because we are mistaken in this debate for bathing places occasionally used to bathe. What's the difference? To create a swimming pool, you really need to demonstrate safety, good infrastructure, preparation, cooperation with local authorities. Places occasionally used for bathing will be allowed to be established only for 30 days, another 30 days so that the rules for creating a permanent place as a bathing area cannot be observed by this law. Indeed, the fact that in the Drawski Lake District there are so few such hard bathing sites, with good infrastructure for the entire bathing season, indicates that it is not so easy to bring children, young people, families to Polish lakes. We are dealing with what was going on in the Members' questions - there is a compromise between safety and the promotion of lake rest. There is a Water Safety Directive, a Act of 18 August 2011 on the safety of people living in water areas - we absolutely do not liberalize it, we do not celebrate it. The organizer of a holiday for 30 days in an occasional place used for bathing will have to comply with this law 100% , with full consequences. This is about providing rescuers, rescue equipment, but it will also be cheaper for him - a duty for 30 days, not two months. In addition, it was a question of your fellow Members as to whether the local authorities were paying attention, the project was consulted with the local authorities. Yeah, by the way, a big bill, so-called. The sewage directive, on which we will probably meet and talk soon, was consulted, but at some point in order to improve this process before the summer, before the bathing season, we have excluded the records of places occasionally used for bathing from the large law, because there are really many cases and so easy in committee and in plenary will not be. The last thing - Mr Szałabawek asked: it will definitely improve safety, because we will not be able to celebrate this law and we will not treat the place occasionally used for bathing as a bathing area of sense strictly with all the consequences. This is the last digression: as we planned this law, representatives of the social side, above all children, young people, scouts, oasis groups, but also self-governments, came to us to simplify the Water Law, this great one, you can say, a mob implementing the Water Framework Directive. This is what we wanted to do for children and young people before the holiday season. We did not suppose that this would be the case beyond our eastern border, and that thanks to this law on places occasionally used for bathing, the stay of children from the East on Polish lakes will also improve. Of course, the organizer, as I say, will have to meet all the conditions, but also in the context of children from Ukraine, children from war areas, will be able to use such places occasionally used for bathing. It's March, and the bill will come into force in a month, hopefully faster. If we had to, we wanted to organize a bathing area for children from Ukraine, we would have made it to September with the current legal solutions. And that's how we're gonna do it from the end of June. Tomorrow we'll talk about the amendment. Mr. Evening! I said this just now: we do not want to make space used occasionally for 2 months, because as the name suggests, this is a place used occasionally. [[Voice from the hall: But, Minister, it's up to 2 months, that's the thing, it could be 30 days within 60.]] I understand, but one way or another, I'm gonna ask you to withdraw this amendment so that we don't have to see each other tomorrow and so we can vote on this bill as soon as possible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u272	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft Parliamentary Law establishing the Maritime Technology University in Szczecin, print No 2063. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Armenia to the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia on the readmission of persons residing illegally, drawn up in Brussels on 19 April 2013, drawn up in Warsaw on 29 October 2021 (prints Nos 2036 and 2067). I ask Mr Wiesław Szczepański to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I have the honour to present the position of the committee on printing 2036 and another, which was drawn up after the meeting of yesterday's committee, on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Armenia to the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia on the readmission of persons residing illegally, drawn up in Brussels on 19 April 2013, drawn up at Warsaw on 29 October 2021. Yesterday, the Administrative Committee held a meeting, considered this project and in a very short, or, in fact, it could be said that there was no discussion at all, 50 votes to 0 said, together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, that this proposal had to be adopted and ratified. The draft implementing protocol was drawn up on the basis of the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation, drawn up in Brussels on 19 April 2013, and in accordance with Article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland as a Member State of the European Union shall be entitled to conclude an implementing Protocol to the Agreement with the Republic of Armenia. The Protocol regulates specific issues related to the transfer and admission of persons residing without authorisation in the territory of the State of the Party, which is intended to ensure effective bilateral cooperation between the Republic of Poland and Armenia, while contributing to international efforts to prevent and combat illegal immigration. The provisions of the Protocol shall determine the procedure of the competent authorities in the performance of readmission and shall supplement the provisions of the Agreement with regard to measures and documents other than those provided for in the Annexes to the Agreement. In particular, the Protocol sets out the competent authorities responsible for the implementation of the Agreement, the border crossing points at which the transfer and transport of readmitted persons will take place, the means used by the parties to send applications and answers, the conditions for the return of persons under escort, the language of mutual communication and the possibility of working meetings and consultations. The question of cooperation between the Polish party and the Armenian party in the implementation of readmission has not yet been regulated in a bilateral international agreement. After confirmation by the party of an interest in concluding an implementing protocol to the agreement during a working meeting in Warsaw in April 2014, the Polish party forwarded the Armenian side to the diplomatic note a draft of the protocol together with an invitation to open negotiations. Then the ongoing exchange of notes and today the consequence of these discussions and these meetings is the project that we are presenting to you today. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs requests the adoption and ratification of the Act on the Implementation Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Armenia to the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia. So that the committee has accepted, the two joint committees recommend the adoption of this law unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u274	I thank the rapporteur very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Marta Kubiak will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u275	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government's draft law on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Armenia to the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia on the readmission of persons residing illegally, drawn up in Brussels on 19 April 2013, drawn up in Warsaw on 29 October 2021. This project mainly concerns the regulation of specific issues related to the transfer and admission of persons residing without authorisation in the territory of the State of the Party, which is intended to ensure effective bilateral cooperation between States. There is no doubt that it is necessary to regulate all the issues necessary to cooperate with the Armenian party. The entry into force of the Protocol will contribute to deepening cooperation between the Republic of Armenia and the Republic of Poland in the field of protection of the broad legal and public order of both countries, as well as to increasing the effectiveness of cooperation between countries in the field of preventing and combating illegal migration. I would particularly like to point out that the entry into force of...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u276	I would like to ask you to allow me to speak with you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u277	...does not cause any negative social, economic and political consequences, nor will it cause additional costs, while any costs which occur, connected with the expulsion of a foreigner from the territory of the Republic of Poland, are borne by the Act of 12 December 2013 on foreigners, and are independent of the conclusion of the protocol. The entry into force of the Protocol will facilitate and speed up readmission, thus contributing to the rationalisation and reduction of the costs associated with the stay of individual foreigners in guarded centres and detentions for foreigners until they are transferred under contract. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u278	Thank you very much, Member. Katarzyna Maria Piekarska, who will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u279	Dear Marshal, Ladies, gentlemen! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club regarding the draft Act on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Armenia to the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia on the readmission of persons residing illegally, drawn up in Brussels on 19 April 2013, drawn up in Warsaw on 29 October 2021. The bill concerns the agreement of the President of the Republic of Poland to ratify the implementing protocol between Armenia and Poland to the Agreement between the European Union and Armenia on readmission. The Protocol is drawn up on the basis of Article. 20 of the Agreement between the Union and Armenia on readmission. The Protocol clarifies the details of bilateral cooperation between States on procedures for the identification of aliens and the organisation of forced return. Includes e.g. the identification of the competent authorities of the State responsible for the implementation of the procedure, the means of mutual communication - here the implementation of the electronic system for handling readmission applications deserves attention; thanks to the system, the whole procedure is carried out electronically - border crossing points through which the illegally staying citizens are readmitted. It also clarifies the issue of escorts, costs, as well as the language to which the authorities of the State communicate when sending an illegal citizen. It should be borne in mind that in strengthening cooperation between countries in preventing and combating irregular migration, all procedures must respect human rights. My club will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u280	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Gdul, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u281	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will present the Left's position on the implementing rules for the readmission agreement between Armenia and the European Union. Detailed provisions concerning the readmission process were presented by the Government. These are good recipes. There are no doubts, they are orderly, they regulate the expulsion or transfer of citizens illegally residing in the Republic of Poland to Armenia. We do not see any risks, but we see the benefits of implementing these rules, so we will support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u282	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your rather lapidary but full speech. Mrs Urszula Nowogórska from the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland, which has not yet arrived. Remotely. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u283	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! Sometimes, due to the circumstances of illness, it has to be done remotely. Therefore, today, on behalf of the Polish Coalition - PSL Club, the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Armenia to the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia on the readmission of persons residing illegally, drawn up in Brussels on 19 April 2013, drawn up in Warsaw on 29 October 2021. As the rapporteur of the Committee on Home Affairs and Administration Wiesław Szczepański said... [[Disruption of reception]] . . Yes, it is. In this connection, I also wanted to stress that the Act will increase cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Armenia in the field of legal and public order, as well as the effectiveness of cooperation between countries in the prevention and fight against illegal migration. The project has indeed been prepared quite meticulously, and there is no doubt about it. And in connection with the discussion on the draft law on... [[Disruption of reception]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u284	One can guess from this part of the speech that we have seen, that the Member presented the position of the club, which is heading towards the support of this project. Maybe there's something else we can find out about the new connection. In the meantime, Mr Krystian Kamiński will speak, who will present the position of the Confederate Group.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of the Government's draft law on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Armenia to the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia on the readmission of persons residing illegally, drawn up in Brussels on 19 April 2013, drawn up in Warsaw on 29 October 2021, is to regulate specific issues relating to the transfer and admission of persons residing without authorisation in the territory of the State of the Party, in order to ensure effective bilateral cooperation between States. The Protocol shall be implementing in respect of the Agreement and shall specify the detailed manner and procedure for its implementation. The minutes shall specify in particular: the competent authorities entrusted with the task of implementing the contract, the border crossing points at which the transfer and transit of readmitted persons will be carried out, the means of transmission and response used by the parties, the conditions for the return of persons under escort, the language of communication and consultation, and the possibility of working meetings and consultations. As we can see from the justification, the number of persons currently transferred by the parties to the Protocol under the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia on readmission is relatively small, but the regulation of all matters necessary to cooperate with the Armenian Party requires that the Parties conclude additional provisions in the Protocol. Let us hope that such agreements will be signed with as many countries as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u286	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Zalewski, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050, will take the floor as the last speaker in this round.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u287	My dear Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here, in previous speeches, colleagues presented many arguments for this ratification, I will not repeat them, but I will declare on behalf of the Polish 2050 wheel that we will also support this law. On the other hand, I think this is a time when it is worth giving a few words to Polish-Armenian or Polish-Armenian relations. Here I think about relations, relations between Poles and Armenians, who have lived in the territory of the Republic since the 15th century. It is worth appreciating these relationships. Poland has always been a country for Armenians close to culture, although far away in terms of geographical distance. On the other hand, we shared many different, many similar geopolitical challenges - from the threat of Turkey, to the threat of Russia. Today Armenia is at a particular moment, in a particular situation of conflict with Azerbaijan. Also relations with Russia are in some sense ambivalent, because on the one hand Russia guarantees certain interests of Armenian vis-?-vis Azerbaijan, and on the other hand the new government created after 2018 is trying to conduct a policy towards Russia but some distance and inexhaustible proximity, refused recognition - it is very valuable and worth noting - these two pseudo-publishers, which were recognized by Russia on the eve of aggression against Ukraine. And this is also a challenge for Polish diplomacy. Today we are all focusing on what is happening in Ukraine, on this horrible, horrible, brutal, bandit aggression of Russia, the Kremlin towards Ukraine, but we must not forget the Caucasus. Polish diplomacy has instruments because it created them in the form of an Eastern Partnership to bring Armenia closer to the West. This is also the assignment of bilateral Polish-Armenian relations, this is a particular task in the context of today. I think that the outcome of the war, the failure of Russia in Ukraine, will create new opportunities to shape the political situation in the Caucasus and Poland, the European Union, NATO should stabilise these relations, and that should be our goal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u288	And I thank the Member for this historical reflection, because indeed many representatives of the Armenian people were outstanding citizens of the Republic of Poland, such as Simon Simonovic or Teodor Axentowicz, not to mention Grzegorz Piramowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u289	Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Votes from the room: bravo, bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u290	Thank you very much. And now she has a chance to finish her speech by Mrs Urszula Nowogórska. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u291	Thank you very much, Marshal. Some technical lad snuck in during the transmission. However, I have just heard your statement and deep historical knowledge - congratulations, Mr Marshal, and congratulations, Mr President. I just wanted to say that the law that we are discussing all the time at the moment will increase relations and cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Armenia in terms of legal and public order, as well as the effectiveness of cooperation between countries in preventing illegal migration. This is actually a lot of threats and many crises these days, which is why my club, the Polish Coalition Club - PSL, the European Union of Democrats fully supports this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u292	Now we no longer have doubts about the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. To this point, two gentlemen, colleagues from the Parliamentary Left Club, came forward with questions. Mr Rafał Adamczyk will first ask the question and then Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski. [[Raphael's working.]] Mr Rafał is absent. Well, of course, the reliable Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr Rafał Adamczyk is currently working in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. If questions can be asked to the representative of the Government, in the explanatory memorandum to this ratification act, we read that the number of persons currently transferred by the parties to the Protocol under the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia on the readmission of persons residing illegally, drawn up in Brussels, is small. Do you, gentlemen, have such statistics as regards the illegal residence of Armenian citizens in Poland? Secondly, this protocol or this ratification act will reduce the costs, by agreement, of staying illegally in Poland, of staying in detention or in individual centres, as it will improve the transfer process of the Armenian side and vice versa (the bell), because it is a bilateral agreement. In view of the above, the first question: How many people do we deal with when it comes to illegal residence in Poland, from the Republic of Armenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u294	Thank you very much. In this list, the list of persons enrolled in the questions was exhausted. Mr Bartosz Grodecki will now speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u295	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! This number is indeed small, with a number of dozens of people per year. If you wish, of course, we can give you such statistics for the last five years, there will be no problem with that. On the other hand, I would like to point out one thing here: effective readmission is one of the most important elements of the effective conduct of any migration policy at all. Here we have a signed agreement with the European Union and an implementing protocol to this agreement. However, at the level of the European Commission, we very often have such discussions, because we believe and believe that these agreements signed by the Community with third countries are more effective, because the Community has, of course, much more opportunities to implement such agreements, but also requirements when it comes to the signing by third countries of these agreements. [[Voice from the Chamber: Congratulations on recognising the importance of the European Union.]] [[Genius.]] Thank you. However, it is important that such agreements are signed. The fact is that the implementation protocols are being negotiated for a long time, because they are very detailed, but once they are signed, they actually work very well. The reduction in costs is, of course, a consequence, because the faster the readmission, the lower the costs are borne by the State, which must in fact keep these people in its territory. If you allow us, we will answer exactly what is the number of Armenian citizens, Armenians, in South Africa. But as I say, there are dozens of people, this number isn't big. This is not a country that is some dominant country when it comes to migration issues, but we are pleased that this protocol has been negotiated, signed and that it will be implemented 100% By Armenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u296	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteurs of the committee of Mr Szczepański are not present. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America concerning the deployment of flight security officers signed in Warsaw on 2 December 2021 (prints No 2035 and 2066). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of two committees, I report a governmental bill on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America concerning the deployment of flight security officers, signed in Warsaw on 2 December 2021, print No 2035. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 23 February this year. the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs for first reading. The Commissions: Administration and Home Affairs and Foreign Affairs, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 7 March 2022, ask the High Sejm to approve the draft law in print no. 2035, without amendments. And literally a few sentences explaining this project. The project was after a night, which the United States government sent to Poland quite a long time ago, and was agreed for many years. At the end of last year, all arrangements were made and the agreement was signed. Now, in order for the president to continue to be able to sign under it, it required the adoption of appropriate legal regulations in the form of a law, and this is really something that specifically regulates one space, which is legal and acceptable by two parties - the United States and Poland - the rules on arms, the work of officers who are on such a voyage of ships between the United States and Poland, and all the elements related to how these weapons are carried, what are the rules. This is the main object of securing those cases which in this note and in this law are accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u298	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kalet, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u299	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, I would not like to take so much time, because this law does not cause much controversy, because it is one of those areas that improves the safety of Poles, the safety of our citizens, this time it can be said in airspace when it comes to passenger flights. Given that we are currently working at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on a very important law on refugees, on the citizens of Ukraine, I would not like to take too much time. At the same time, I would like to say that the Law and Justice Club fully supports the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u300	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Boris, who will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u301	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I would like to present a position on the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on the deployment of flight security officers. Indeed, this law will increase the level of safety in the field of flights between Poland and the United States also through third countries. This is a requirement which requires us, firstly, to tighten up the visa-free movement, but it is also a standardization of action on the part of the United States. According to what we discussed at the committee meeting, the Border Guard, which is leading this case, is fully prepared for security issues, picking up, storing, depositing weapons. At all our airports with international status, there is also a question of securing fully all issues related to the protection of personal data. We recommend the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u302	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Left Club will be presented by Mr Paweł Krutul.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Government bill on ratification of the Agreement between the Polish Government and the Government of the United States of America concerning the deployment of flight security officers signed in Warsaw on 2 December 2021. I almost didn't really believe that there would be a war beyond our borders in the full sense of the word. It's just as hard to believe that we can suddenly face an act of terrorism, e.g. Going on vacation. I would like to stress the importance of decisions for prevention. The Polish-American agreement on flight security officers is important for our policy and security. Flight security officers are the active and last line of defence against terrorism and air piracy. They are also an important element of the US strategy to prevent terrorism in the civil aviation sector. This strategy is a model of how we should proceed and what solutions we should put in place to improve the safety of flights, and not just on the US - Poland line. Air traffic protection by ensuring the presence of security officers on board aeroplanes operating passenger flights should be standard. The Left supports the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America concerning the deployment of flight security officers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u304	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Nowogórska will now present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives. We're hoping it won't be disturbed this time. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u305	Thank you very much, Marshal, I hope so too. I have the honour to present on behalf of my club, the Polish Coalition Club - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Marek Biernacki Conservatives with regard to the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America concerning the deployment of flight security officers signed in Warsaw on 2 December 2021. The history of this document dates back to 2011, when the US Embassy asked for an agreement on the protection of aircraft flights. Since 2012, the Border Guard has played a leading role in civil and tactical aviation. In 2020, the Prime Minister agreed to open negotiations on the protection worth of aircraft on board. And this is indeed a good step, because in a time of modern threats, in a time of terrorist threats and many others, increasing the level of security, both in respect of commercial, passenger, scheduled and charter flights, is very important. It is also very important to make every effort, Mr Marshal, to properly secure the personal data of all security and security officers. I think that this law will also be a reason for further strengthening cooperation between Poland and the United States, and in the age of what is happening beyond the borders of our country, pacts and alliances are very important in the 21st century. Indeed, at the moment there is a very serious debate in the Committee on Home Affairs and Administration on the Law on Aid to Refugees. And I think this is one of the main determinants that we should focus on. However, this law, which we are discussing at the moment, is certainly a good basis for cooperation between the Polish People's Republic and the United States. Of course, my club, the Polish Coalition Club - PSL, the Union of European Democrats fully supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u306	Thank you very much, Member. We wish you health. Mr Krystian Kaminski will now speak on behalf of the Confederate Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The primary objective of the Government's bill on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America signed in Warsaw last December is to regulate safety-related matters on board aircraft operating commercial flights between the Republic of Poland and the United States. It concerns the issue of the reception of a protective guard and related to the provision of assistance, the acquisition of arms, ammunition and other deposit facilities, and subsequently the release of such weapons and the introduction of a protective guard on board the aircraft in such a way as to ensure the secrecy of such activities, which, of course, requires the cooperation of the services of both States. A legal basis has been set up to allow security guards to carry firearms on board the aircraft without having to deposit them on board, in a place not accessible to passengers. The conclusion of the agreement is required for countries participating in the US Visa-Free Movement Programme. The entry into force of the Agreement will not have any additional financial implications for the budget or for entities for which the activities involve the performance of the protective value. The Agreement does not apply to natural or legal persons, but only to the services responsible for displaying protective assets on board aircraft. In Poland it is, of course, the Border Guard. At the committee meeting, we had a relatively short discussion on this subject. The Ministry confirmed that this is a standard agreement signed by the USA with other countries in case of participation in the Visa-Free Movement Programme. There have only been minor adjustments to fit it into our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u308	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Zalewski will now speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u309	My dear Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an important agreement - on behalf of the members of the Polish 2050 circle, I declare that we will vote for it. She is a testimony of a growing Polish-American relationship in a small but important issue, important because it concerns safety in air traffic. And allow me, Mr. Marshal, that this issue of Polish-American relations should also be the subject of a broader reflection. Well, this morning I asked the marshal to fill in the agenda for the Prime Minister's information on his efforts - I hope that this has happened and is happening - the Polish government to deploy air defense systems in Poland. This request is not left. realized, but enough to watch American TV, that is, in this case CNN, to find out that Americans are seriously considering this issue. On Friday, Szymon Hołownia, the leader of our movement Poland 2050, appealed to the Polish government, but also to allies and, above all, to the United States. I'm very glad we have that information today. It is only a pity, Prime Minister, that Poles receive such important information from the American media, not here from you. Mr. Marshal! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u310	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Three of your fellow Members have asked questions. As usual, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski is as reliable as ever. I do not see the other Members. There you go, then, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask government representatives. We have such information in the justification that as far as the security guard is concerned, their presence on board aircraft has not been normal in Poland, and it is known that the American side has introduced security guard after all these terrorist attacks. In view of the above, I would like to ask: What are the terms and conditions for protecting American aircraft flights to Poland? That's the first thing. Second thing. We are talking about the fact that there will be no financial consequences, and yet we will have to bear the costs by putting the security guard on our side, which will be needed, because they will strengthen the safety of passengers. These costs are to be borne by the Border Guard, and from this point of view this will be an additional burden for the Border Guard. How much can this be (the bell) in a year, how much will it cost to the Border Guard budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u312	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Minister Bartosz Grodecki to answer the question and possibly refer to the club speeches. Mr Zalewski has opened up a beautiful path of political career for the Minister, calling you Prime Minister, but I do not think that has offended you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u313	Dear Marshal, No, it didn't hurt me at all. I was surprised at a certain point, but thank you very much to my fellow Member for his warm words. I answer the Member's question. Mr President, we have, of course, a 2005 regulation on how to issue airguards. However, for them to be effectively issued, there must be a bilateral agreement with the State concerned and an air carrier, i.e. must be on the one hand in this case the American carrier flying to Poland directly and the Polish carrier flying to the United States also directly. As I recall, it seems since 2001. The Americans didn't operate on this line, but LOT flew to the United States. The Americans in 2020 had the intention to open flights to Krakow, but of course for reasons of COVID it did not succeed, but thanks to this idea of flights to Krakow, this air marshal agreement has accelerated. Yesterday at the committee meeting, there were questions about whether this was a template agreement. Yeah, actually, when Americans negotiate deals, they usually work on their templates. This one has been modified and our amendments, all of which we have tabled, have been accepted by the Americans. Mostly it was about confidentiality when it comes to issuing worthwhile, because this directory of people entitled to information, which is worth and personally who actually flies on such a segment, is confidential information. So this catalog has to be narrowed down, and indeed there have been ongoing negotiations in this field. Luckily, on December 2nd, I had the pleasure of signing this contract with the chargé d-affaires Aliu Bixem. We hope that this will be carried out quickly by Parliament and that we will indeed be able to start flying in two directions. Nevertheless, this agreement has another rather important context. I mentioned this at the committee meeting, but I think it's worth saying it in the courtroom. This agreement is not part of the Visa Waiver Program. She is not required, although as far as I know 52 countries have signed such an agreement, while she has raised the overall assessment of the security of Poland in terms of evaluation of the programme. It seems that every two years Congress carries out such an evaluation of the country with which the United States has signed a visa-free agreement, and this agreement is quite important because it actually increases this security assessment significantly. So, to recap, like I said, the bilateral agreement. Of course, then we cannot display such value on this basis. Plus, of course, direct flights on the one hand and on the other hand operated by the air carriers of the country concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u314	I, too, thank the Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, drawn up in Bridgetown, Barbados, on 15 October 2008 (prints No 2034 and 2068). I would like to ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u315	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a report by the Joint Commission: Economics and Development and Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, drawn up in Bridgetown, Barbados, on 15 October 2008. The drafting of the bill itself took place today. The bill, although not long because it consists of only two articles, covers almost 4,000. pages of the material. The Agreement and the signatories of the Agreement are the States of the Caribbean Forum of ACP States, hereinafter referred to as CARIFORUM States, on the one hand, and the European Community and its Member States, on the other hand. This is the first comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement that has been negotiated in line with the objectives of the Economic Partnership Agreements set out in the Cotonou Agreement. The ratification of the EPA by all parties to the agreement is intended to contribute to the creation of a single harmonised trading system in which the European Union will provide better market access for all CARIFORUM States. The Agreement includes the measures necessary for the establishment of a free commercial area and provisions on services, investments and other areas affecting trade and regulates labour and environmental standards. The Agreement will enable CARIFORUM partner countries to have a greater impact on their economic development. The Agreement provides for the possibility for companies originating in CARIFORUM States to establish a commercial presence in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! On behalf of the joint committees, we recommend moving on to further work on the bill presented. The Commission made no comments and no amendments to the proposed draft. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u316	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marcin Gwoźdz, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was asked to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Government Draft Act on the ratification of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, drawn up at Bridgetown, Barbados on 15 October 2008, print No 2034. The Law and Justice Club supports this government bill and further works on it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u318	Thank you very much. Is Mr Tomasz Kostus in the Chamber, or is there going to be a merger? [[Yes, I am.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u319	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The purpose of this draft law is to agree to the conclusion of an Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States and the European Community and its Member States. As a result of the conclusion of the above mentioned paragraph, agreements will be among others. enable the countries of the Caribbean Forum of ACP States to have a greater impact on economic development. A trade policy aimed at stimulating the trade flows of CARIFORUM States with the European Union, for example, is intended to pursue this objective. by reducing or eliminating customs duties on the Union market on goods imported from those countries and by eliminating tariff quotas. The most important effects of the conclusion of the agreement include, among others: reducing and eliminating poverty by establishing a partnership consistent with the objectives of sustainable development, as well as promoting regional integration, economic cooperation and good governance by implementing the legal framework for trade and investment. It is worth mentioning that from 15 CARIFORUM States the largest recipients of Polish exports are Bahamas, the value of exports amounted to EUR 189 million in 2020, Antigua, Barbuda - EUR 101 million, or Dominican Republic - EUR 26 million. The scope of the agreement covers a number of political and economic aspects such as trade-related issues, including customs, trade facilitation, anti-dumping measures, agriculture, fisheries, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, investment, trade in services and electronic commerce, competition, innovation and intellectual property, public procurement, the environment and dispute settlement rules. The Economic Partnership Agreement provides for asymmetry in favour of ACP countries, e.g. exclusion of sensitive products from liberalisation, a long liberalisation period, flexible rules on origin and special protection measures and measures for agriculture, food security and the protection of emerging industries. The economic consequences of ratification of the Agreement, the entry into force of the Economic Partnership Agreement of the European Union - CARIFORUM, are not expected. First of all, the trade regulation agreement has been applied on a temporary basis since 2008. Possible benefits for the Polish economy may arise, although their amount due to the fact that Poland does not have close commercial contacts with most countries of the region, may be insignificant in the scale of the entire economy. The position of the Council of Ministers, according to which ratification of the Agreement requires the agreement expressed in the form of a law, should be respected. Adoption of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States and the European Community (Bell) and its Member States, drawn up in Bridgetown, Barbados on 15 October 2008, under the procedure laid down in Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 constitution is justified. Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens recommends the adoption of the above mentioned. a draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u320	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Szejn, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u321	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The submitted Economic Partnership Agreement, the Economic Partnership Agreement, between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, is a development-oriented trade agreement. The main objective of the Agreement is to enable the countries of the Caribbean Forum of African, Caribbean and Pacific States to have a greater impact on their economic development. The EPA with Caribbean countries is a comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement. Moreover, it is not only limited to trade in goods but also covers services and investments and other areas which affect trade, i.e. competitiveness, innovation and copyright and public procurement as well as labour and environmental standards. The aim of this agreement is not only to facilitate trade, but also to strengthen development cooperation. The Agreement provides duty-free and unlimited access to the European Union market for all products originating in the CARIFORUM States. For products exported by the EU, the agreement introduces a 25-year transitional period for the reduction of import duties by the partner countries of the region. Companies originating in CARIFORUM States under the Agreement have been given the opportunity to establish a commercial presence in the European Union. Development cooperation, as referred to in Article, is a very important element of the implementation of the Economic Partnership Agreement with CARIFORUM. Seven deals. The main objectives of the Agreement are to reduce and eliminate poverty by establishing a partnership consistent with the objectives of sustainable development, the Millennium Development Goals and the Cotonou Agreement, promoting regional integration, economic cooperation and good governance by implementing the regulatory framework for trade and investment, promoting the integration of CARIFORUM States into the world economy, strengthening the trading potential of CARIFORUM States, improving the conditions for enhancing private sector investment and development and the economic environment, strengthening existing relations between the European Union and the CARIFORUM States by extending trade and economic relations, gradual and asymmetric liberalisation of trade and deepening trade and investment cooperation. I would like to stress that unless the Republic of Poland has any significant advantage in ratifying this agreement, because we do not have extensive trade relations with most African, Caribbean and Pacific countries, but countries The CARIFORUM will undoubtedly benefit from it. The Left Parliamentary Club will support the Act authorising the ratification of this Agreement by the President of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u322	Thank you very much, sir. Now Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u323	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As you said, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I would like to express my position on the draft law authorising the President to sign a mutual support agreement between the CARIFORUM States and the countries of the European Union. This law is intended to support this agreement, to promote economic development, economic aid to the associated countries in CARIFORUM. Therefore, the Polish People's Party, like everyone here who has acted on behalf of the clubs before me, supports this law, which empowers the President to sign such an agreement, and we will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u324	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Krystian Kaminski to present the position of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are debating an Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, on the one hand, and the European Community and its Member States, including, of course, Poland, on the other. What is the scope of this agreement? First of all, trade facilitation, anti-dumping measures, the elimination of technical barriers to trade and investment and, importantly, dispute settlement rules. As the Ministry presented to us at the meeting of the committee, the profit for Polish entities from this agreement will stabilise the legal and investment situation, which should benefit investment and trade. Trade is, of course, not particularly large due to this particular nature, but let us hope that this agreement will give some impetus to this scope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u326	Thank you very much. We invite Mr Paweł Zalewski and ask him to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u327	My dear Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to the previous exchange of views, I, of course, referred to the Prime Minister in fact to the minutes, but I hope that the Deputy Minister of Administration will convey my words to him. On the other hand, returning to this very important agreement between the European Union and the Caribbean countries, I would like to say that on behalf of the wheels of Poland 2050 we will vote in favour of this agreement, of course. However, I think it is worth understanding the mechanism of this agreement and many other agreements that the European Union has with geographical regions that work together actually on all continents. We are talking here about economic agreements or deeper agreements, namely the Free Trade Agreement or even deeper agreements, the so-called agreements. Deep and comprehensive free trade agreements. The instruments that the European Union has are extremely important. They serve the development of our partners, give them asymmetrical instruments, because they benefit much more from trade, because these duties, these economic facilities on our side are much larger than on their side. This is about creating an opportunity for economic development for these countries. But - and this is also very important - under democratic conditions this is the great value that the European Union is promoting, and today it is evident that it is important. For it is true that the world has divided Two blocks. One block, with Russia and China, is a block of authoritarian countries, with very strong totalitarian elements, which are deeply corrupted, and on the other side we have the West, which is governed by law, democracy, personal freedoms, freedom of speech. The point is that the world, countries such as Africa, Latin America, Asia - which is subjected to very strong pressure from China, which actually invests in these countries, but try to make them dependent on each other and smuggle their standards, corrupt standards, bad standards - have an alternative. And this is the alternative given by the European Union, this is the alternative offered by economic cooperation agreements, free trade agreements. And praise to the European Union for that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u328	Thank you very much, sir. However, Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak decided to take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u329	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to thank all the clubs very warmly for supporting this draft law on ratification of the agreement between the CARIFORUM States and the European Union. I think that even with such small countries, distant from Poland, it is worth having good relations, also economic relations. That's why I'm glad there's full agreement in Parliament. I hope that's the deal with the other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u330	Thank you very much, Minister. Is Mr Zubowski, rapporteur, present, and would he like to speak? [[Voice from the room: No, Mr. Marshal.]] No, okay, I get it. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure (Print No 2027). I ask the Minister, a member of the Council of Ministers of Mr Michał Wójcik, to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u331	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a draft amendment to the Act - Code of Civil Procedure in the field of so-called. Hague proceedings, cross-border proceedings - difficult, very difficult, usually with criminal, civil elements, defining relations between individual countries. It is known that there are often disputes between citizens of different countries, not just the same country. This change is not wide, but it is quite important. It complements the reform which was presented in 2018. It was a reform on the basis of which the courts specialised in cross-border matters were founded, ladies and gentlemen. Since then, there have also been judges specialized in these matters. And I would like to thank them very warmly for what they're doing, because these are very difficult things for leaning over them. And thank the prosecutors very much for that. It is known that prosecutors have for several years had to participate in cross-border cases, cases settled under the Hague Convention. On the other hand, one of the elements in our view, in my opinion, which results from several years of observation of the functioning of this reform, is not working well and therefore has been proposed to amend the code governing the civil procedure. These include cases in which one of the eligible entities: either the prosecutor general, either the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman, decides to file an emergency measure, which is a cassation complaint. It is decided to submit it and, at the same time, it often requests the enforcement of the final order to be suspended. Since 2018 such situations have been 16. Only in two cases did the court make a positive response to such a request and in the 14 remaining cases those provisions were enforceable. Sometimes, unfortunately, there were dramas. These are, ladies and gentlemen, media issues, and I think many people have had an opportunity to observe such situations. The court has the right, but of course it does not have to agree to this request, this is an optional form. I have therefore proposed that, since there is an emergency measure in extra-ordinary situations, i.e. a cassation complaint, but this also applies to an emergency complaint, the lodging within 14 days by one of the qualified entities I have indicated that it intends to lodge such an emergency measure and then to submit such an emergency measure within 2 months of the date of the decision on the return of the child to the place of his previous stay will in practice mean that this provision will not be feasible, and therefore it will not be possible to issue an order on the compulsory issue of the child. Of course, in the case of an emergency complaint, any submission of it automatically, under the law, will result in this effect that this provision will not be feasible. Where the holder does not lodge the complaint within the prescribed time limit, this will in practice mean that this provision will become due. On the other hand, if it withdraws the claim that it will lodge an emergency measure, the ladies and gentlemen of the State, in a situation where another person who will be informed - because this is the result of this project, from one of the regulations - of the fact that such a measure is to be submitted if it has already lodged an emergency measure, then it will not be possible to issue a child until the end of the complaint proceedings in the context of issuing an order on the compulsory issue of a child. If, of course, such a cassation complaint or an emergency complaint has been lodged as an emergency measure. If not, it will automatically become feasible. This regulation complements the 2018 reform, ladies and gentlemen. I think it's extremely necessary. Let us remember that the child's welfare is more important than the speed of proceedings, although if you have doubts, I am able to present concrete examples showing that since 2018 in Poland these procedures have really accelerated. We have nothing to be ashamed of. Please accept this offer of mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u332	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u333	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on the government draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure, print no. 2027. The draft shall respond to the investigation in practice of cases recognised in the courts under the Hague Convention ordering the issue of a child. The principles set out in the Convention, the speed of the child's surrender procedure and the principle of the child's welfare are crucial, very important, but they do not always serve the child. Legal problems with the enforcement of final decisions ordering the return of the child to the State of his permanent residence before the expiry of the period following the filing of the cassation action and before the Supreme Court finds that the purpose of referring the action to such cases is to eliminate a final decision ordering the return of the child from legal circulation. The courts, on the basis of the principle of speed of proceedings, are not thorough enough, also because of the lack of time needed in such proceedings, examining whether there are grounds in the case for refusing a child to reside in the country of permanent residence. If, as a result of the enforcement of the judgment, the party may suffer irreparable damage, the court of the second instance may, at the request of the party, suspend the enforcement of its decision until the cassation procedure has been completed. If the appeal is dismissed, the Court of First Instance may suspend enforcement judgment of the Court of First Instance. The examination of court cases in these cases leads to the conclusion that a request to suspend the enforcement of the contested decision under Article is made. 388 § 1 of the Civil Procedure Code is not effective because such requests are dismissed by the Court of First Instance, it does not suspend the enforcement of its judgment or the judgment of the Court of First Instance. This was the case in one of the cases in which, on 9 August 2021, the Attorney General filed a cassation complaint and on 18 August 2021, the child was forced to be removed from his mother and returned with his father to his permanent residence in Norway. In such and similar factual situations, the cassation action is found to be without object to the enforcement of a judgment given under the Hague Convention. The above points out the need to amend the applicable provisions governing proceedings under the Hague Convention in such a way as to safeguard the welfare of a child whose factual situation is uncertain due to the enforceable final judgment ordering the return to the State of permanent residence and its failure by the obliged person, to ensure his or her sense of security and respect for his or her dignity and integrity, and, on the other hand, to enable the persons entitled to lodge a cassation action to exercise their procedural rights and, after bringing an action before the Supreme Court, to proceed without interference in these matters. In view of this request, it was considered necessary to amend the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure concerning matters recognised under the Hague Convention, namely the introduction of compulsory suspension from office of enforcement of the final order of the ordering court within a specified period of time to ensure the return of the child to the State of habitual residence in the event of a cassation complaint. The revision in this area will allow the institutional powers of the institutional bodies referred to in Article to be exercised. 519 The proposed regulation provides for the addition of an article. 388 High Izbo! This law, as the Minister has just pointed out, is very important and serves many mothers with very important problems. High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club welcomes the bill submitted on amendment of the law - Code of Civil Procedure, print No. 2027, and requests further work on it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u334	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tadeusz Zwiefka will now present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u335	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! We have an extremely important and extremely interesting and responsible job ahead of us, because we will determine the fate of not parents, not the country, but we will actually determine the fate of the child, because the right of the child is at the heart of any legal proceedings concerning him. This is not only enshrined in the 1980 Hague Convention. It is also enshrined in the Declaration of the Rights of the United Nations, but at the same time it is also written in the Community document in force as Poland, which is called the Brussels IIA Regulation. Both Minister Wójcik and I had the opportunity to work on his amendment. I was the rapporteur of the European Parliament, who is not entitled to co-author the resolution, but was asked for an opinion. It is the right of the child, his legal personality has been put into all our considerations, and therefore, with this legislative proposal we will, I think, together, have to take into account mainly the right of the child. I heard in Mr Lorek's speech and I think the Minister was kind to mention this: the right of the party. What's the law of the party? Ladies and gentlemen, the law of the party is secondary. It's basically a child's right. This is the element that must accompany us in this work in the first place. I would therefore like to remind you that we agreed together - the Minister was kind to sum up the work on the revision of the Brussels IIa regulation, which ended in spring 2019. - that it's our success together. I totally agree with that, I think it was a great job that led to a good finale. There we agreed that time plays an important role because the child's uncertainty about where he will be staying, what language his first or second language will be, because they are usually bilingual children, in which environment he will develop at the main time of his stay, i.e. at the place of his permanent residence, is extremely important. This is not only mentioned by lawyers, but above all by specialists, i.e. psychologists and children's psychologists. Therefore, if we have agreed that this time plays an important role, extending proceedings does not serve the rights of the child in a proper manner. We talked there about three 6-week levels: 6 weeks to be considered at first instance, 6 weeks at second instance and 6 weeks to be executed. Today we have in Poland a case in which three years have passed since the final judgment, also after the end of the cassation case, and the child has still not been issued. So that is perhaps an important problem, which is also worth leaning over on this occasion. The amendment of the Brussels IIa Regulation enters into force on 1 August this year, and that is also the law that applies to us. There, it is addressed to the Member States a very important paragraph about reducing the state of affairs, i.e. that Member States decide on one element of the appeal, one possibility of appeal. To this end, Minister, I am very grateful for this and congratulate you on the 2018 reform, which makes 10 district courts all over the country authorized to deal with such cases, and in the second instance, one appeal court, i.e. the Warsaw Appeal Court. What does that mean? This means the fulfilment of the request, in principle, by all signatories to the Hague Convention, but also by the Member States of the European Union, concerning the fact that educated judges are referred to these courts, who are best prepared, who know both the law and the issue. Any cassation complaint is to undermine their knowledge, their experience and their excellent preparation for this work. So why not leave in the decision and jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal, that is, the Court of First Instance, the decision whether or not to suspend the enforcement of the final proceedings in connection with the intended submission of the cassation action? You mentioned that since 2018 we had 16 such issues, in two courts agreed to this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This may have been the case, but let's give ourselves time to work on this document on the codification committee and find a good solution. That's what I bring on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u336	Thank you very much, sir. The floor will now be taken by Mrs Monika Falej, who will present the position of the Members' Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Left Club on the government proposal to amend the law - Code of Civil Procedure, contained in print no. 2027. The draft law provides for amendments to the provisions on matters recognised under the Hague Convention, i.e. those relating to the abduction of a child abroad. When the competent authority lodges a cassation complaint, the new rules allow the enforcement of the final order of the court to be suspended from office for the child to return to the State of habitual residence. Unfortunately, it is now the case that a judgment ordering the return of the child to the State of permanent residence in the context of a final proceedings takes place before the cassation action is brought and at the time of its recognition by the Supreme Court. It's a lot of stress for a child, a nervous situation for a parent who's currently in custody. This was the case, among others. in one of the cases in which the Attorney General filed a cassation complaint in August 2021 and a few days later the child was forced to take away the mother and returned with his father to his permanent residence in Norway. The cassation action brought in such cases shall be without object to the enforcement of a judgment given under the Hague Convention. Such events require a revision of the existing rules. Above all, it is about safeguarding the child's welfare, ensuring his safety and respecting his dignity and immunity. The most important envisaged solution to this project is the introduction of a mandatory institution to suspend the enforcement of a final court order, which requires the return of the child to the State of permanent residence within a specified time limit in the event of a cassation complaint by the competent authority. In cases of child withdrawal pursuant to the Hague Convention, at the request of the Prosecutor General, the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman, notified to the Court of First Instance, the enforcement of the order shall be suspended. The deadline for submitting a request shall not exceed 2 weeks from the date of the decision's validity. In the event that the court sets a short time limit for the return of the child, eligible entities will be required to make a rapid request. In order to lodge a cassation complaint resulting in the suspension of enforcement of the order of the Prosecutor General, the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman will have two months from the date of the decision's enforcement. The lodging of a cassation complaint within that period shall extend by law the suspension of enforcement of the order until the end of the cassation procedure. The filing of a complaint will result in a halt. The application of an emergency complaint in the case of child withdrawal pursuant to the Hague Convention will, by law, suspend the enforcement of the order until the action is terminated. Given that these proposals contained in the draft law address legal problems related to the enforcement of final decisions and the protection of the rights of the child, the Left Club will vote in favour of directing the project to further work. I hope the baby's business is a priority here. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u338	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u339	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition Poland would like to present our position on the draft amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, contained in the sejm print no. 2027. The project itself by my esteemed speakers has been very carefully discussed. I'm not gonna duplicate that information. In fact, this is an attempt to meet many appalling cases and situations affecting very often the marriage of the Polish woman, the Pole with people from other European countries. In fact, there are more and more cases. In all of this, one thing is a common feature: children always suffer, which are the subject of abductions, parental abductions. The media have given a lot of attention to this problem. That is where we need to say, Minister, that this is undoubtedly a step in the right direction. However, I wonder whether this is a solution that will eliminate the problem in its entirety, whether it will be a kind of golden measure, which will cause media coverage to disappear once and for all problems affecting children from marriages of people from different European countries. I have concerns about this, but I think that, as a club, we are in favour of working on this project further in committees, we will not absolutely be those who are going to stop work somehow, but nevertheless with this assumption that, on the occasion of this project, on which we are going to proceed, which was presented by your minister, we will focus maximum on effectiveness, on the complexity of this solution and try to eliminate the problem as much as possible. After listening to the positions of the clubs presented today in the debate, I think there is a chance. I think that we should work on this project in this spirit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u340	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Grammarka will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u341	Dear Marshal, Honourable Minister! High Izbo! This bill raises serious doubts, but that doesn't mean we won't be working on it. In particular, I imagine this work at the stage of committee work. What is the legal situation if this draft law is passed? Here in the legal course will appear the final orders of the court which have previously been subject to judicial review and, within the meaning of the law, are, in fact, to be final. And these are not orders of any court, but these are orders of specialized, specially trained judges in 11, it seems, district courts, controlled by equally special department of the Court of Appeal in Warsaw. Those sharpenings in these kinds of cases... These things are extremely difficult. Here I agree with the Minister, who specializes in this problem, so he knows exactly what he is talking about. These things are not only difficult, but also very emotional. These restrictions were introduced in 2018 at the request of the Minister of Justice and the Sejm, he unanimously adopted those rules. We all know how rare this is in our country. At the time, the Minister was proud - and rightly so. Today, I feel like he's saying, "What do we need a court for?" We have a prosecutor who knows better in certain situations. And he knows that better than the courts of two instances. Maybe only the Supreme Court will be smarter than your prosecutor. In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, you refer to one case, of course, an example, in which the cassation complaint was unsuccessful, because the child was given up earlier in accordance with the final decision. But it would be equally possible to identify many such situations in which the Supreme Court responded in an appropriate manner in cassation proceedings and the children were happy in Poland. It would also be worth mentioning the judicial line that has developed in the meantime. The Supreme Court says this: the Polish constitution opposes any reduction of the concept of the good of the child, as a basis for understanding this concept, it takes the general view, among others. so-called. cultural conditions. Without getting into detailed legal considerations about one of the main objectives of the Hague Convention, the speed of the whole procedure, it should be noted that it is worth building trust in the courts in our country, and this project, I have the impression, goes in a different direction. As I said, the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 will debate these regulations at the stage of work in committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u342	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list of questions? If not, I close it by setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis, will be the first to speak. You can't see. So Mr Michał Grammar, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u343	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum of this draft law, you are cited, among others, by the State. for the examination of Mr Marcin Białecki, who is a well-known specialist in family law in the legal world, in particular in international relations. Meanwhile, Mr Białecki, in one of the popular legal portals, says directly that the solutions offered by the Minister are hitting or can hit the welfare of the child, mainly because they extend the procedure considerably. Indeed, this model, which you are proposing, looks like this: the first instance, then the second instance, then waiting for the cancellations and the cassation proceedings themselves. As I mentioned earlier, one of the main objectives of the Hague Convention is to act as quickly as possible to simply protect children so that they do not have time to get used to the negative circumstances in which they live. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is dictated by the welfare of the child. Please refer to this argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u344	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Marshal Barbara Dolniak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u345	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As has been said here, time plays an important role in these proceedings because it concerns the child. I have questions about that. What is the most important cause of long delays? Enforcement of the final decisions of the court concerning the enforcement of a final decision concerning the abduction of a child, and we unfortunately have a problem with this in Poland. The number of cases involved in parental abduction or illegal detention, e.g. in the last 3 years 2019-2021? How many percent of the cases were filed with a cassation complaint? And one more question. In this case, we introduce obligations to suspend the enforcement of a final judgment. What about the other proceedings? As in other cases, when there are (the bell) important issues, important issues for the parties, where there is no such obligation? Aren't the parties gonna start asking about the absence of a reason for such a suspension? After all, we know that the procedure for cassation complaints takes quite a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u346	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to express my thanks and great respect to the Minister for the things he has helped you with, because I have to tell you that, although I am a short Member, I have already had a few of these cases. Why did I say page? Let me give you an example of this. You come from country two with your patron, and you hire a patron who was a judge and you're running cases like this with a patron. On the other side, we have a mom who's got some state-of-the-art legal counsel. I don't want to depreciate the role of this patron, but the forces are already disproportionate. And this gentleman already has a third wife, and he says to that mother, "I'm gonna take your baby away from you to sell it." And can you imagine what the sentence is? And for the other side. Really. For the other side. For a second-country citizen. The mother is currently hiding this child in Poland. I said page 'cause where's the baby's welfare? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u348	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u349	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The constitutional principle is that each authority of the State, and hence the courts, is obliged to listen to the child and to take account of his position as far as possible. It seems that in matters concerning children, not only in border matters, but in all others, even property, not only care, the right of the child is violated by courts in a general way. The courts do not hear the children and do not take their positions into account. The second question concerns the convention, it is about this two-year period of a certain limitation or (the bell) when the child is in the country. Does this concern... Is the child subject or subject in this case? Because if it is an object, this period can be renewed, and if it is an entity, then of course this period cannot be renewed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u350	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition, closes the list of those who have been asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u351	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This bill is needed, but as usual, you're treating the problem with a two-way street. You've only seen this situation when the child is wrongly taken from Poland. What if the children are abducted by a parent with Polish citizenship, e.g. A violent man? Such children will wait years in case of an emergency complaint. These are difficult matters, often involving violence, and you completely ignore them. The Hague Convention provides for speed of procedure. Have you ever seen an emergency complaint that's been processed within six weeks, as required by the convention? Dr. Marcin Białecki, whose research you refer to in the explanatory memorandum, stresses that in his view the project is contrary to the basic objective of the Hague Convention, i.e. requiring the immediate return of the child. Stopping court proceedings is a pity for the child, because every month of his irregular situation causes it to get used to it (the bell) - the last sentence - and this child's well-being must prevail here. Minister! I have a question about how you intend to protect this group of children who will only protect the immediate execution of court proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u352	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Wójcik, who is called to the board, will answer the questions asked and will refer to club speeches and circles.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u353	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you so much for this interesting discussion. First, I'm going to refer to what the representatives of each club said. I would like to thank you, Mr Zwiefka. I thank you for this work in 2018, because in fact in several weeks completely new solutions are coming into force, which we managed to work together in the Polish Parliament, but above all in the European Parliament. It is the Brussels II bis regulation, it is a regulation which makes it necessary to recognise the identity of the child and the cultural and religious and linguistic - each. All courts in Europe, ladies and gentlemen, will have to comply with the amendment proposed in Poland. All countries had to accept these proposals because it was a regulation, so it was expected unanimity. In a dozen weeks, precisely thanks to this amendment, which came out of Poland, such solutions will be introduced. Thank you for this work done at European Parliament level. There have been a lot of questions about time. That was expected. In my speech I said: on the one hand, we have the child's welfare, and on the other hand we have the speed of action. That's the truth. In matters relating to the Hague Convention, cases should be resolved rapidly in cross-border cases. 6 weeks, that's all there is, ladies and gentlemen, since 2018 for the settlement of the case in the first instance, that's all there is in the second instance. Not before the Supreme Court. This is, of course, an instructional term. In principle, judges comply with these deadlines, especially as regards matters relating to districts, and specialised judges respect the fact that this deadline is actually respected, because these matters need to be dealt with quickly. But, ladies and gentlemen, when are you filing a cassation complaint or even an emergency complaint? In absolutely exceptional situations, in extra-ordinary situations, when a prosecutor, a spokesperson for the rights of the child or a Ombudsman sees that there is an absolutely unique situation and they consider that, despite the legitimacy of the order, justice and the welfare of the child requires that they intervene. There have been few cases like this since 2018, because 16. With hundreds of these cases, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very small number. As I pointed out in my first speech and repeat, only in two cases did the courts agree to this conclusion. And there was this thing, I don't know if she... I can't remember the reasons anymore. The child was practically exported abroad, that's all. Because if he leaves Poland, the subject is closed. That's the brutal truth, so we have to put these two weights on our weight. The child's welfare is more important. I encourage you to look through the Internet: extremely dramatic situations, when a child was even tricked away from Poland and placed abroad and actually I can only disperse my hands helplessly. And it's known that the D.A.'s office is filing cassation complaints in these cases. And what does the court have to do? It's unobtrusive. It's unobtrusive. So we decided no. What is the most important fundamental principle in Polish family law? The welfare of the child. Speed is important. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me put it this way that we've examined the speed of proceedings - I don't have this card here, I left it there - but I want to say that we look very good against other countries when it comes to the speed of proceedings. This has changed a lot since 2018. I am, of course, ready to present to you, during the committee work, concrete data showing - from research of some part of the cases - that the situation in Poland is looking, attention, ladies and gentlemen, better, better. In this situation, I have decided to make this amendment. As far as Mr Pasyk is concerned, he asked whether this would solve the problem. Yes, this project will solve the problem, because in exceptional circumstances, if one of the three eligible parties decides to file a complaint, he is convinced that justice requires it, then I will sleep with a clear conscience, knowing that we have done everything, also as Members, by creating these regulations, that justice will be preserved. Because the court is a court, but the judge is not infallible. That's the truth, the judge is not infallible. I wish it was, but sometimes it isn't. If this were the case with final orders, then the Supreme Court, ladies and gentlemen, after filing cassation complaints or emergency complaints... [[♪ The bell ♪]] May I, Marshal? Thank you very much. In the case of cassation complaints or emergency complaints, ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Court sometimes corrects these provisions. These are sometimes really situations... We do not have the time to present this to you here, but sometimes it is a curiosity of decisions at the level of even the court of appeal. I agree, it's different than it used to be; there are specialized judges, it's different, it's true. This specialization was needed in Poland. Mr Grammar - this is a question of undermining these final judgments. I can tell you that this is the nature of a cassation complaint or an emergency complaint. As far as the latter is concerned by the Supreme Court Act, five years after the finality of the decision. Absolutely unique situations. A year if a cassation complaint has been brought. But like I just said, there are situations where the Supreme Court leans. If there were no regulations that we already introduced in 2018.... I proposed a cassation complaint in 2018, but it was different before that. Before that, there was an art. 577 of the Civil Procedure Code and there's a rule that says that if circumstances change, even a final ruling can be changed. This provision was not used. Then the Supreme Court stated that it could be applied in Hague cases. That's what happened. The D.A.'s office asked the Supreme Court to interpret this situation. Art. 577 could have been applied, but then a cassation complaint was brought within a specified time limit by the eligible entities. The Supreme Court corrects. The Supreme Court sometimes sees that decisions are not right. So even if there was one such case, it's worth it. You're asking about your attorney, Mr. Białecki. I am very surprised, even amazed at his performance. I've seen it, I've seen it, I've read this article. This study was prepared for the Justice Institute, as far as I know. All I can tell you is that the patron wrote something else in his paper, something else. Then he spoke for the media. I'm very sorry, of course I'm ready to meet him and talk to him. But we're still in the middle of a discussion about whether the child's welfare is more important than the speed of proceedings. Although I don't think it's gonna take that much longer, after all. The data from the research, from this study, which you have prepared, we used in the justification. It was a record exam, as I recall, and we used it. I'm ready to talk to him. Mrs Dolniak talks about time and the welfare of the child. Of course, we are still in this convention, which is more important. The Member asked how many such cases there were. I can say that 494 requests for the return of a child abroad have been received from the Justice Department since 2018, or information that such applications have been submitted directly to the District Court, because of the fact that there are two roads here. 409 cases, not completed - 85, return orders were issued in 124 cases, 181 cases were dismissed, because the application is often withdrawn, 104 cases have been dismissed by ordering the return of the child. About the question... [[Minister, I'm sorry, could you mention mediation?]] About mediation? Can I still do that? Two minutes, literally, if you're a marshal... These are really important things. I only had five minutes. Yes, mediation is the key, sir. I just regret that mediation is not being applied. It's the fault. Not even the courts, but the parties. They don't want to get along. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what I said. It's been seven years since I've been speaking from this speaker in the children's affairs. Where the child is, where the parties fight, the parents fight for this child without any brakes. Sometimes as a resort of justice we offer mediation - professional, good mediation. Personally, I've talked to one side or the other about a lot of things, and sometimes you can't really find a point of contact. We are mediating, sir, absolutely. Sometimes they are also organized by Skype, modern technologies, because parents are sometimes in different parts of the world. We're ready to do it, sometimes we can't. When you can't? For example, if we have violence in the background. If there have been such criminal cases, it is impossible to organise mediation. But it can often be done. Parents often, believe me, fight with all means, are willing to spend every penny so that only the child will be there and win with the other parent. That's what happens, unfortunately. The honourable Member asks why we use such extraordinarily solutions only in these matters. Because these are special things. She knows that, and she has very much experience in this area. It's not like any other case. Because she has a civil context, a criminal, an international context, and judges were afraid of that kind of thing. It is known that all the regional courts in the first instance settled such cases, and the judges were afraid of it. Today there are exceptional regulations and they function. They are good, but there is no settlement. We can, of course, discuss the deadlines, because you asked us about it, but I don't think we're gonna change anything about it. We talked to the National Attorney's Office, we analyzed the cases very carefully. We believe that 2-week and 2-month deadlines should not be extended or shortened for the efficiency of proceedings. Of course, we're open to talk. As regards the question of the Member, he asked, among other things. to hear, if I remember correctly, why not listen to the child everywhere. Did I get that right? Because sometimes the age of a child makes it impossible, of course I would like it to be in every case. Sometimes there's an expert psychologist who tells you that you can or can't. There are situations. The submission of such an emergency measure shall suspend the issue of the child until the end of the complaint procedure. That's what I'm saying right now. You don't have to duplicate any more conclusions. Unless I didn't understand something. The last one was Mr Sterczewski. You asked if time refers to the Supreme Court. No, as far as the Supreme Court is concerned, there's no time frame. I would just like to conclude by reminding the Member that we all voted in favour of this regulation here in Parliament in 2018. I was very proud when we introduced specialist courts. They are working today, and it is the merit of all Members that, in the case of children, we can achieve unity and not argue. I hope that on this issue - she is not easy, I am aware - we will also find consensus. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u354	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Government's draft law amending the Act - Code of Civil Procedure, contained in print No. 2027, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the draft law on the creation of the Maritime Technical University in Szczecin (prints No. 2007 and 2063). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Carrot to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u355	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the draft Parliamentary Law on the creation of the Maritime Technical University in Szczecin. I would like to begin by thanking all the parliamentarians, as well as the rectors and representatives of the Maritime Academy, who are here with us today at the gallery, for their constructive work in committee. I would like to welcome the magnificence of Rector Wojciech Ślączka, the Lords of the Rectors: Professor Artur Beiger, Professor Arkadiusz Tomczak...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u356	Welcome very cordially to the representatives of the future Maritime Technology University.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u357	She's here. ...Professor Janusz Urias and Your Majesty. Zbigniew Olecha. [[Applause]] Gentlemen, welcome. And thank you for your constructive work at today's joint committee meeting. I would like to say that the current Maritime Academy in Szczecin is one of the two universities in our country that educate qualified staff for the needs of the broadly understood maritime economy. Maritime Academy, previously Maritime Higher School, is a card on the educational map not only Szczecin, not only the Western Pomerania, but the card of the whole of Poland, because qualified maritime workers, sailors, sailors, sail through the seas and oceans of the whole world, and more and more skilled workers, professionals who deal with the wider maritime economy, also work in those areas that are carried out on land. Currently, the Maritime Academy educates on 16 courses of first or second degree studies and these are among others. automation and robotics, computer science, industrial engineering and offshore wind power plants, geodesia and cartography, ocean engineering or production management and engineering. Scientific activities of the academy are carried out in various areas such as diagnostics of machinery and equipment, operation of ship gyms and energy systems, modern composite and construction materials, use of biofuels in small craft engines, renewable energy sources and alternative energy sources, ocean engineering, analysis of the effects of the operation of floating facilities and many, many others. The Maritime Academy in Szczecin has the authority to give a doctoral degree and a doctoral degree in engineering and technical sciences, in two scientific disciplines: land engineering and transport and mechanical engineering. In 2020, a doctoral school covering both scientific disciplines was launched at the Maritime Academy. I would like to point out that it is precisely the establishment of the Maritime Technical University based on the currently functioning academy that will highlight the technical profile of the teaching activity, which is reflected in the course of teaching mainly in the studies leading to the professional degree of engineer or master of engineer. Moreover, the creation of the Maritime Technical University will also contribute to the positive reception of universities not only in the region, but also increase their national recognition, because it will be given a much higher rank. I would like to point out that as part of the projects implemented by the current Maritime Academy, many activities are carried out that serve the Polish maritime economy, because professionals who work at the Maritime Academy carry out activities that are necessary and very important for many key infrastructure projects. He goes here, among other things. about such activities as the construction of the LNG terminal in Świnoujście, the construction of fuel terminals in ports in Szczecin and Świnoujście, the modernisation of the entrance to the port in Kołobrzeg, the reconstruction of the water track Szczecin-Świnoujście. In total, in the last decade, nearly 200 commissioned research works have been carried out for industry in the academy, which shows not only the very high quality of teaching, but also the commercialisation and exploitation of the professional experience of the Maritime Academy staff in key projects for the development of maritime economy. I would like to stress that the bill on the establishment of the Maritime University of Technology in Szczecin was signed by all parliamentarians from Western Pomerania. This is our common cause, this is a matter that we are pursuing above divisions, because we are aware of this (The Bell) that we are doing this for the sake of the development of higher education in Western Pomerania and the strengthening of the scientific potential of the Maritime Academy in Szczecin, which I hope will soon be the Maritime University in Szczecin. I would also like to say that at today's meeting of the Joint Committees on Maritime Affairs and the Committee on National Education, the project met with unanimous support from all parliamentarians taking part in this meeting. I therefore ask the High House to support this proposal and thank you for your constructive work so far in favour of the establishment of the Maritime Technical University in Szczecin. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u358	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u359	That's one amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u360	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Szałabawek will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u361	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the Law on the creation of the Maritime Technical University in Szczecin, prints No. 2007 and 2063. Not yet with the amendment? Together? No, not yet. [[The amendment is already complex.]] Complicated. Along with the amendment. I would like to point out what the fellow rapporteur, Mr Marchewka, also pointed out, that this is a very important project, under which all parliamentarians from the West Pomeranian region signed up. I would like to add that the creation of the Szczecin Maritime Technology University will affect the whole country. It is not that West Pomeranian voivodeship will now have a polytechnic, will be closed and will be glad to have it. This is a very important thing for our country, a very important development, and this is also something that the rapporteur has presented in a way. If I don't want to duplicate many words, maybe I'll give you a brief historical outline, because that wasn't the case. The creation of the Maritime University of Technology in Szczecin is part of the 70-year tradition of maritime education in the Western Pomerania as the next stage of its development. The idea of locating in Szczecin a training school for the needs of maritime affairs was established in December 1945. The 3-year State Maritime School in Szczecin was formally established on 1 January 1947, and in 1951 it was transformed into a 5-year Marine Navigation Technique. In 1963, the Minister of Shipping's decree established the State Maritime Fisheries School in Szczecin, to which recruitment took place for two departments - the Faculty of Navigation and Fisheries and the Faculty of Operation of Fishermen's Machines, such mechanical. In 1963 a new post-secondary school was also established, the State Maritime School, which trained officers for the merchant fleet. Both schools were merged under this name in 1967 and were transformed into the Maritime Higher School in 1968. As we remember, the University of Szczecin was once a school with a very high potential. She had two departments - the Navigation Department and the Mechanical Division. She started teaching in 1969/1970. In 1997, the Faculty of Navigation obtained the authority to give a doctor's degree in technical sciences in the field of geodesia and cartography. In 2002, the Mechanical Department received such powers in the discipline of the construction and operation of machinery. Also in 2002 a third department was established at the Higher Maritime School - the Faculty of Engineering and Economics of Transport, and the Higher Maritime School gained the status of a university, thanks to which it received the name of the Maritime Academy in Szczecin since 2004. The Act on the designation of the Maritime Academy in Szczecin was published in the Journal of Laws under No. 29 item. 256. In 2019 two new departments were created - the Faculty of Computer Science and Telecommunications and the Faculty of Mechatronics and Electrical Engineering. Their creation now sets the trend for the development of the academy - the academy yet - which clearly turned towards technical sciences, technology - and digital ones, and the IT world. The Academy is a public university, a maritime university supervised by the Minister responsible for maritime affairs. He has the authority to give a doctoral degree and a doctoral degree in engineering and technical sciences in two scientific disciplines: land engineering and transport and mechanical engineering. At present, the academy is teaching 16 fields of study - this has already been presented by the rapporteur, so maybe I'll skip it. Since 2021, the academy has been accredited by the Polish Centre for Accreditation of the Laboratory: the Centre for Research on Fuels, Working Liquids and Environmental Protection, including in areas of research and implementation activities, concerning not only shipping but also operating systems, e.g. Windmills. In 2020, a doctoral school was launched, covering two leading scientific disciplines - mechanical engineering and land engineering and transport. I'd like to... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm gonna finish this. The Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice fully supports the bill and will vote in favour of this. the bill with the amendment tabled. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u362	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u363	Minister! Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Rectors! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition has the honour to present its position on the draft law establishing on 1 September 2022. Maritime Technical University of Szczecin, print No 2007. I am twice honored and satisfied because this is the first time I have dealt with a law that has so spectacularly combined all Members of the Western Pomerania. Even here in this room, she brought us together because Mr Szałabawka stole my speech, too... [[But that's what you'd expect.]] But no problem, because it was very interesting and showed what the tradition of marine science in Szczecin is. [[They're already fighting. They're already fighting.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Therefore, going further, I can say that over all these years, the university has carried out hundreds of different research projects, including international ones, under different names. The university actively participates in key investment projects of the maritime economy and performs research work on behalf of Polish ports. The Maritime Academy in Szczecin carried out a number of research work on the largest Polish maritime investments, such as the construction of LNG terminals in Świnoujście, fuel terminals in the Szczecin-Świnoujście seaport complex or the conversion of the watercourse to these ports. Only in 2001-2021 did more than 200 research projects. Over the years of activity - and this is probably the most important - the university has developed thousands of sailors, valued in the world of professionals. A large group of foreign students from different parts of the world have always studied at the university. Currently, a large group are students from Ukraine, most of whom are now defending their homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill provides for the establishment of the Maritime Technical University on the foundations of a non-existent Maritime Academy in Szczecin. As a result, the technical profile of scientific and teaching activities will be highlighted, which is primarily reflected in the course of training in studies which result in the acquisition of a professional degree in engineering or master's degree in engineering. The establishment of the Technical University will increase the prestige of the university and contribute to its positive reception in the region and increase its recognition in the socio-economic environment. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I began by expressing my appreciation for the unanimity of Western Pomeranian parliamentarians, but it is impossible to ignore what happened today at the committee meeting. 43 members of committee 43 voted in favour of setting up this university. It's probably an event in this Seym, but we're very happy about it. This shows that the initiative to establish the Szczecin Maritime University of Technology has received widespread approval. I have nothing but hope that the entire High House will also unanimously support this extremely important initiative for Szczecin and the whole Western Pomerania. I am delighted to announce that the Civil Coalition Parliamentary Club will support this project in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u364	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u365	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Magnificence! Mr. Rector! I am delighted that we are discussing this project. And right away, not at the end, but at the beginning, on behalf of the Left Club, I want to dispel any doubts and say that the Left Club will support this bill. [[Applause]] We will support it because it is a good project for university development. The left is in favour of the development of universities, the left is in favour of increasing the level of education, for increasing the availability of education, for increasing innovation at universities, including state universities. This project contains it. I believe that with such a great staff, it will indeed be possible to change the name and set up this new university in order to increase the number of students, increase the level of education, because this is needed All of us. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! It's already been cited as a historical feature, so I don't want to go back to that. I want to say this: Szczecin is not by the sea, there is no doubt about it. I want to explain it to everyone because there were moments when guests from Poland ordered hotels in Szczecin with a view of the sea. No, we are not lying by the sea, but the maritime economy, because Szczecin has a seawater boundary, is very important for Szczecin, as for Pomerania, for Gdańsk. Therefore, the Maritime Academy, and later the Maritime University, will be one of the two universities that will educate staff precisely for the broadly understood maritime economy. They have already been signalled and previously, at the meeting of the Maritime Affairs Committee, and at the meeting of the parliamentary team, these various directions that are planned for development. I'll be honest with you, Mr. Rector-General called a few months ago, asked for a meeting and said he had this idea of changing or creating the Maritime Technology University, so I was wondering what it was like, what it was doing at all. So we have to point out that this is a conscious decision of the university senate, university authorities, the whole academic community and students, because this is also what we asked if students support this change. This change is also due to what the High House introduced in the area of Education Law. In short, there is a desire for the environment of the present Maritime Academy to enter this level higher and the Polytechnic is precisely this level higher. And to be honest, when I heard this, I was happy because I am a graduate of the Szczecin University of Technology, which makes it very important to me at all. I hope, in fact, I know, and I believe in this deeply, that when it comes to cooperation with the current technology university and with universities in the West Pomerania region and in Szczecin, it will be just as it has been so far. Because this isn't about competition, it's about Szczecin not being 35,000, it's about 50,000. students, because this is the direction we should pursue. Therefore, I think that today this law opens up the possibility of developing this university, and the fact that it is indeed a law initiated by the parliamentary team is also very important. Besides, when I look at that list, it's just... Is Michael Grammar here? You are Mr Grammar. Only the Member is not from West Pomerania. [[I'm from Wielkopolska.]] But this is best shown when it comes to those who present positions on behalf of the clubs today, that we are absolutely keenly interested in this, and I think it is worth learning from this too. So thank you, Mr. Rector, for leading to such historic reconciliation, I think we can say on behalf of the parliamentary team that we will be on this course. They held a course for the Maritime University of Technology and for the development of the Maritime University of Technology. Thank you very much. Happy birthday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u366	Mr Rzepa, the fact that Szczecin is not by the sea is probably what most of us know, but I would like to say that Mr Jarosław Rzepa used to greet guests in Szczecin with such a phrase that Szczecin Poland begins with. [[Yeah, yeah.]] [[And that's what he's famous for, isn't it?]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Here you go, Mr Jarosław Rzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Magnificence, Mr. Rector! Many well - known words have been spoken to all those who have tried for weeks, months. First of all, I would like to thank the university authorities for what happened on January 26. My previous speakers said that it was an exceptional date, because it was then that the Western Pomeranian Parliamentary Team met for the second time in this term of office practically in full office and unanimously supported the initiative with which Mr Wojciech Ślącz came to us. That's what happened, ladies and gentlemen. I think this initiative has shown that, for the sake of our region, we can be together, and thank you very much for that. I also thank the Minister, because the Minister was also the one who inspired your chancellor very strongly, and the truth needs to be given here. Minister, thank you very much. We haven't heard such words about the Maritime Academy today, and it's worth saying, ladies and gentlemen. The Maritime Academy is not only a university, but also training centers outside the university, it is the Study of Excellence of Officers' Personnel, the Marine Rescue Training Centre, the Marine Training Centres in Świnoujście and in Kołobrzeg, the research and training ship Navigator XXI. That's what we're made of, scissor... When he's not around Chrobry's Shacks, we feel a little uncomfortable. We know that it performs many different important functions. Of course, it's a center for the operation of floating objects that have actually been completed. I think Rector Wojciech Silesia knows it's 13. Rector in the history of our university. Mr. Rector, this is a lucky number. I'm sure of it. And I'm even more convinced that... I don't know when the inauguration is planned, maybe October 3rd, Monday. I hope that Director Sylwia Fabian-Makuch... The first Gaudeamus Igitur will sound at the University of Maritime Technology. I very much wish you that. I wish you the development, satisfaction, that students spend this time in the walls of the university - and hopefully as often as possible, ladies and gentlemen, you know why I say so - they say well that they often come back. On behalf of my club, ladies and gentlemen, I can say that we will be very happy to vote in favour of this initiative and I am convinced that this initiative, which is very important for us, for the Western Pomerania, will be part of the development, satisfaction and pride of the University of Maritime Technology. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u368	We very much thank the Member who presented the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. Mr Michał Grammar will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u369	Dear Marshal, Your Magnificences! High Izbo! As Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050 will be proud to support the design of the Maritime Technical University in Szczecin. I do not have territorial relations with the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, but I am a sailor, so abstracting from the other arguments raised in this room, it is worth recalling that Szczecin is and has always been an extremely important place on the map of the maritime development of Europe. It is worth mentioning, for example, the famous four chimney transatlantics produced in Szczecin, the four pipers which broke the hegemony of English ships in the race for the Blue Pest Atlantic, then one of the most prestigious marine competitions. It is worth recalling the names of the wonderful Polish captains Konstanty Matyjewicz and Count Antoni Ledóchowski, who in this city realized their great dream about the Polish maritime school in Szczecin. On Women's Day it is worth mentioning Mrs Danuta Kobylińska-Walas, the first woman in Poland captain of the great shipping. The right to sail on merchant ships has just won in Szczecin, which is a feat, because it was the 1970s and women were not allowed to sail on ships. Even the most famous cat sailor Umbriaga comes from Szczecin. Today, it helps children learn sailing, and in their spare time, we sing shanty about it. This is why I understood the decision to which I convinced the entire Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050, i.e. enthusiastic support of this bill. Thank you very much. Greetings from Silesia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u370	Thank you very much, sir. At this end we concluded the club speeches and the representatives of the circles. Four people signed up for the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to be added to this list? If not, I'm shutting her down. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. As the first Mr Rafał Adamczyk, who is not here again. But Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition, is present. We ask the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Every college, every new direction is joy. I would also like to support this project with enthusiasm, but I have a question, because during these many years of postings sailors came to me, who were looking for jobs in Warsaw, justifying this better conditions. Of course, it is difficult to be a sailor in Warsaw, so they changed their profession, claimed that it was more profitable. My last case was a year and a half ago. Then I'd like to ask. It is so next to the law, but at the same time it is closely connected, because we know that Polish universities, and all of them, are experiencing some difficulties due to demographic lows, that these departments are not complete, that universities have to seek students. So my question is whether there have been studies (the bell) indicating that there will be no such problem with students as well as with subsequent jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u372	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left, will speak. [[A question for me, Mr. Darku.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u373	Mr. Marshal! Minister! No, not to the rapporteur, no. I have a slightly different question, and I'll probably ask the Minister to answer in writing. The truth is that this decision and this bill, and the colleagues were talking about it, had to have the approval of the Minister and the Minister of Education. Such acceptance was indeed a tribute to the ministers here for the fact that this project was piloted. However, my question is this, Minister: In the context of the changes that are planned at this university - because I believe that this bill will be voted out, the Senate will accept it, and you will sign - the Ministry will include in the budget plans for the next year an increase in subsidies for the new Technical University (Marine Bell)? I think it would be a good idea if there were any extra resources for development. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u374	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u375	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Your Magnificence, Rector! Ladies and gentlemen! The higher maritime school in Szczecin has long served in the maritime economy as at least polytechnics, so in my opinion this is a complement to this process. What is the maritime economy, High Izbo, Mr. Marshal, I don't think I have to say because all Poles feel it and know it. I hope, in fact, that raising the rank of university to the rank of polytechnics will affect the fact that this university will be much (the bell) more intensively affecting maritime and maritime economies will grow much faster. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u376	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Marek Gróbaryczyk, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Magnificence, Mr. Rector! Gentlemen of the Rectors! First of all, I would like to congratulate and thank Rector Wojciech Ślączka, because it is his personal success (Applause) - carrying out this process with such commitment, perseverance - success in the form of combining all of us and adopting this law. Magnificence, Mr. Rector, once again cordially thank you for what you have done in this regard. As it is said in Europe, Polish maritime universities are simply a phenomenon. The shrinking number of students or the liquidation of these universities in the world and in Europe, above all in Europe, is a fact, which is why we want these universities to grow so much. This is an absolute step towards the future, especially towards the development of universities. There's no problem with the call. I would particularly like to confirm to you that the university has very many candidates and does not suffer from a lack of students due to demographic decline. That is why we are raising the status of this university and we want to expand the opportunities for training in not only maritime but also other fields: logistics, computer science. The university is extremely active in the international forum. There is an international maritime organisation, the IMO, where the university is preparing amendments under the STCW Act to introduce a new profession, marine IT. This is an extremely important action (Applause), the impact of universities on the international community. It is also very active in EMSA, the European Maritime Agency. It is extremely strong support for the Ministry in the field of education, but also for the entire maritime economy. Of course, I would like to assure you today that the university's subsidy will be higher. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo! Bravo, Minister!]] But I don't think it's over, because we're not gonna stop there, we're not gonna stop at the state of the polytechnics. Therefore, today I would like to assure you that if this is the will of the university, the Ministry will do everything possible to carry out further plans. On this occasion, I would like to thank everyone very much for their support for this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo, Minister! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u378	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposal. I can't hear you objecting. [[He accepted.]] This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 8 March this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement and join the list? No. Therefore, I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. The first statement will be made by Rafał Adamczyk, the club of the Left. There's no envoy. Mr Przemysław Koperski, also the Left Club. There is no Member either. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u379	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On March 10, 2022, we will celebrate the 78th anniversary of the public execution in Chelm. What happened on March 10, 1944? The first executions at the Fair in Chełma were carried out by the German occupier in 1942 and 1943. According to available information, even a dozen executions could have occurred at this location. But this one from March 10, 1944 was particularly eloquent. It was the biggest execution, the only public execution, held in retaliation for killing two Germans. Three days earlier, on 7 March 1944, on the Chełm - Lublin road near the town of Marynin near Pavlov, an assassination took place on the high German officer of the SS and his assistant, and the driver was badly injured. 36 soldiers of the Home Army from Chełm, Zamość and surroundings were sentenced to death in retaliation for this. National Army soldiers were in the Lublin Castle earlier. They were transported to the Chelm prison on the eve of the event. 10 March from 10 a.m. 9.30 to the market square were spent by random residents of the city and nearby villages. It was a market day, people were at the marketplace, shopping. Those sentenced were brought in trucks from the Chelm prison just before hours ago. 10. Prisoners were divided into groups: two of ten and two of eight, and so they were shot. Then the German officer shot down the gunshots. A witness to these tragic events was Henryk Fiuk, 15 years old at the time, who said: "There was a raccoon in this place, where animals are present. The execution was in front of that shed. The prisoners had their mouths as if they were plastered, they couldn't say anything. They took them 10, handcuffed in front of this shed, and about 25 m from them 20 gendarmes fired at those 10, which means two shot at one. The Gestapo gave the command: Execution! Ten shots were fired, and then another ten went off, then more and more people, which is a total of 36 people. When I was here the next day, that shed was stabbed like a sieve. That's what Mr. Henry told me. In the evening, two vans were taken to the cemetery and buried in a mass grave. This year we will celebrate the 78th anniversary of this tragic event. There are many places like Targowica in Chelm on the map of Poland. Let us take care of such places, and let the memory of them be a warning of the next wars. This is particularly important now that we are witnessing Russia's aggression against Ukraine and Poland has become a front country. We remember. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u380	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. [[Voice from the room: Piotr Adamowicz.]] I'm sorry, Piotr Adamowicz of the Civic Coalition. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u381	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A week ago from this place, I spoke about the widespread aggression of Putinist Russia in the Ukraine of Hungary by Mr Orbán. In this connection, I called for a reconsideration of the transfer to the Hungarian concern MOL fuel stations of the Polish Lotos Group. The last days show even more clearly how much the cooperation of Mr Morawiecki's government is really worth, more broadly speaking, the entire PiS camp with Orbán. It turns out that Orbán does not want to actively and decisively oppose Putin's aggression: the lack of consent to help in the form of defense equipment, the lack of consent for the transport of this equipment, and finally almost absent from the pro-government Hungarian media attacks of Putin's troops on homes, hospitals and schools and civilian victims. A few days ago Orbán gave an interview for one of the important pro-government media. This interview clearly defines Hungary's attitude. Orbán said that Russia's attack was provoked by the fact that the West did not want to acknowledge that Russia would be safe only if it had neutral states as neighbours. Orbán confessed: Poles want to move the borders of the Western world to the border of the Russian world. They will feel safe if this happens, and NATO states, including Poland, will be able to deploy their own troops west of this line. Therefore, they strongly support Ukraine's participation in the Alliance. Thus, Orbán was the main culprit of Putin's aggression directly pointed to Poland. In the current situation, two steps are urgent: firstly, to withdraw from the sale to the Hungarians of the Lotus station, secondly, to withdraw from the gift of the priceless manuscript to Orbán, which has been owned by Torunians and Torun for five centuries. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u382	Thank you very much. And now Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski from the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u383	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My statement concerns an extension of the period of sickness allowance for cancer patients. We have recently received a dramatic letter from Mrs Bożena and her petition addressed to the President of the Social Security Office of Prof. Gertrude Uścińska entitled: ¿ZUS, let the cancer sufferer live, in which it indicates the problem of the length of the period of sickness allowance for cancer sufferers. From 1 January this year, under the Government Act, the Social Security Office reduced the period of sickness allowance after the termination of insurance, with certain derogations, to a maximum of 91 days. As Bożena wrote in her petition, in practice this means that even if I can close the treatment within 90 days, which I think - she adds - it is impossible, and then I break my leg, I will have angina, etc., then I will be deprived of sickness benefits and thus the means to live. The regeneration of the body itself after a series of chemotherapy takes about 2 months, during which I am exposed to a number of diseases due to severe weakness. As she continued, this approach to cancer patients is not conducive to their recovery and return to work and social activity. What's more, he's making them miserable. Every sick person knows how much money is spent on medicines - many of them are not reimbursed - better food, help and care, if we temporarily require it, commuting to a clinic or hospitals. Every year there are about 165 thousand in Poland. new cancers. This is based on the National Cancer Register data. Shocking diagnosis: malignant tumor often significantly affects professional activity. Some people are lucky to keep it even during treatment. Other symptoms of the disease are strong and in the stage of treatment and recovery are unable to work. The doctor also advises against the work, his opinion is basically decisive. The reduction in the length of sickness allowance puts oncology patients before choosing between their health and earning livelihoods. Therefore, from this point of view, I call on the Minister for Labour and Social Policy to consider amending the law so that people with cancer have the right to a longer sickness allowance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u384	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Kopiec, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u385	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For 13 days through the gate of the European Union and NATO alliance, refugees from Ukraine have arrived in Poland. They are welcomed here with open arms by the people of Poland, who make their homes, houses, cars, money, commitment, time available, make a heroic effort, supporting in this difficult situation jointly and severally, over the divisions of people who escape the bullets and bombs of Vladimir Putin. By self-government officials who do everything in their power by providing public facilities, warehouses, hotels, ensuring security, financing, ensuring that no one is hungry, organizing food centres just abroad and asylums for mothers with children, mobilizing the local community for solidarity assistance, organizing convoys with support that travel daily in Ukraine's war territory. I saw it with my own eyes in Narol, where the help brought by the municipality and residents raises full respect. By activists, NGOs, paramedics, firefighters, servants, people who organize collections, humanitarian transports, food and drink both at the border, at the stations and everywhere in Poland. It was thanks to these good people that it was practically possible to help at once. Thank you for being where you need to be. You're not like PiS politicians at press conferences where these politicians credit you and their party mother. Once again, the government is learning to act in a situation that could be predicted. Prime Minister Morawiecki boasts that he supposedly warned the whole of Europe of possible Russian aggression. Apparently he forgot to inform his ministers and order them to set up and implement appropriate procedures and secure funding in the event of Russian aggression. This is required of the Prime Minister of the European Union buffer state, not of making a stupid populist policy based on polexit, alliances with Orbán and calling Lukashenka a warm man. It should be made clear from this point of view that you are still breaking European standards and taking advantage of the situation, thinking that no one is looking at your hands. The Commission for illegal opposition eavesdropping, which is a clear policy of the regime, has not been established. The illegal Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court blocking the payment of funds in Poland from the Fund for Reconstruction still works. Quasi-State of emergency restricting free media access to work at the border with Belarus has been extended. Hungarians accusing Poland of co-ownership in Russia's aggression to Ukraine are presented with priceless museums. The Homeland Defense Act, which contains more extra-budget funds, which you don't know how and what you're spending on, because you know that no one can vote against this law, you're proceding. Polish Load still drains the pockets of Polish residents. Eurosceptic politicians are still on your side. In your government, the Prokremlow Confederation is unpunished despite a number of applications made in the prosecution. We see all of this and we will stress with the same determination that we are helping and helping you to resolve the consequences of the humanitarian crisis. However, we will not forget a single lie, fraud, and stealing. My generation, the generation of Europeans and Europeans, knows that such political attitudes as you have been presenting for seven years make the aspirations of the tyrant attacking Europe and the free world turn into war. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finish this term, apologize and leave. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u386	Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u387	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In my parliamentary statement, I wanted to draw attention to the problem of mental health among children and young people. Global humanitarian organisations highlight alarming data on the scale of mental health problems among young people and adolescents. Research carried out in Poland reveals a sad picture of the mental health of the youngest, who suffer from depression, loneliness, emotional tension and lack of self-acceptance. These problems are growing along with the progressive change in socio-economic conditions, family difficulties and random events, and they have been deepened by the pandemic of Coronavirus and its limited interpersonal relations. In Poland about 630 thousand. children and adolescents under the age of 18 require specialist assistance in psychological assistance and psychiatric treatment. The second cause of death among teenagers is suicide. The health resort, recognising the urgent need for changes in this area, is implementing a comprehensive reform of the mental health system for children and young people based on a new model for providing benefits. An important tool for help is among others. 24-hour call from the child's rights attorney and online chat. Experts believe that there is a need to raise awareness of issues related to mental health, its hygiene and proper assessment of worrying symptoms by teachers, social workers and curators. The role of parents in close cooperation with schools is also invaluable and there is a need for a broad information and education campaign in this area. It seems that important support for the youngest can also give the involvement of local authorities through the implementation of all kinds of family-friendly projects and workshops, including elements of psychological therapy. The optimal conditions for the functioning of families are also the care of the psychic sphere of the youngest who will co-create the future of our country. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I came across such unusual and unknown information in the media space and decided to share it with you. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u388	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Lorek.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u389	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The fact that on the night of February 23 to 24 this year the world changed irreparably, today, after these few days, is obvious, I think we all realize that. Unprovoked Russian aggression against Ukraine changed all optics. It's a violation of international law. It's a war even given to the democratic world. For many years since we regained our self-determination in 1990, we have been telling Europe and the world what Russia is like. We screamed about the facades of her democracy and that we would not have to wait long for this empire to claim those lands which it wrongly considered to be its own. No one takes away Russia's right to self-determination and to their rights, but Russia must understand that its neighbours also have the right, including the right to choose their own rights, to act and to think about international politics. We were right. There was Chechnya, Ahab, Georgia, and now there's Ukraine. Sleep. President Lech Kaczyński, in the hot days of the Russian invasion of Georgia, warned: today Georgia, tomorrow Ukraine, the day after tomorrow of the Baltic States, and then perhaps the time for my country, for Poland. Unfortunately, he was right. We cannot leave Ukraine alone and today we must help its citizens with all our strength. We have to - and this is the right word - help more, everyone as much as they can. A friendly history teacher, teaching young people in a tech school, told me about young people's reaction to these difficult events. When the students returned to school after school, the teacher was filled with questions like: What will happen to us? Can we feel safe? What do we do now? Can we help you? What exactly is this war all about? The man simply replied: "Help as you can." The students heard that our country is safe because it is bound by international alliances, including NATO umbrella, that so far we are safe, but we must watch and be careful, help the Ukrainians who are actually fighting for your freedom and our freedom, just like Poles throughout almost the entire 19th century. Russia wants to rebuild its sphere of influence in which Ukraine plays a key role. One of the students asked the question: "But what do you mean? - After all, we fought against them for Lviv in 1918, we remember Volyn during World War II. Someone once said that if it wasn't for history, man wouldn't have to wage war. There's some truth to that. It's impossible to bury the ditches that divide us in one moment, but we can, and this time we even have to build bridges and bridges and big crossings to bring us together. There's time for that. It is at this moment that Providence commands us to unite our nations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The society of the Piotrków land was instrumental in helping the people of Ukraine. Several dozen tirades with clothing, drugs, dressings have set out for the fighting country...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u390	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u391	...and other things. Many residents have taken refugees into their homes. We are fighting with the Ukrainians today so that we can be free so that we can live in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u392	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Głogowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! They say that volunteers can't do things right away, and miracles can be done in a dozen minutes. That's what happens. We see something amazing in Poland, it is the commitment of selfless, full people. I will say a few words about this on an example of what I saw in Tarnowskie Góry. As early as the third day of the war, a group of socialists was formed, fully socially engaged in aid. When I read on Facebook that they were cleaning the place that they wanted to use for help, this entry appeared two hours earlier, I thought maybe I could help clean up. It turned out that after 2 hours there was already a professional meeting point that had really grown into an amazing action. Already the next day we sent a car with help to the border crossing in Zosina, at the request of volunteers there who say that all the assistance goes to Medicine and there is nothing in Zosina. A day later, they were also sent a shipment of disposable dishes because they said they had nothing to feed to those who cross the border. During the week, many amazing things were accomplished. He arrived efficiently, happily transporting drugs to the hospital in Lutsk, prepared according to the needs of this hospital. The drugs were also delivered to Ivano-Frankowska. The other day, my friends arrived at Kiev with a transport. Volunteers have also joined the relief action. They help cities, help those Ukrainians who have arrived in Tarnowskie Góra - they are already a few hundred people, our guests from Ukraine. People of different ages, various professions, still active professionally, work daily under the banner: Tarnogórska collection for Ukraine on ul. Legions 15, socially, but in a well organized manner, directed by one of us, colleagues, by a colleague of Paul. Last week the transport of three large cars with more than 4.5 t of gifts arrived in Zamość, from Tarnowskie Góra to Zamość (...) Certainly this activity will continue. There were also situations: late in the evening, at night, a call from police officers working at the airport in Pyrzowice. Pyrzowice is an evacuation point for those citizens of Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan who escaped the war-war of Ukraine. That's where they're waiting for charter planes. Turns out there's 600 at night. And there are only a few police officers, representatives of state services. You can't call the voivodeship office because no one at the office answers their phones at night. There's no way to feed them. The police were transporting the food we collected during the fundraiser. This help is and will be. We need to switch from sprint to long distance. It would be desirable to keep up with the efforts of volunteers and local governments. Unfortunately, you can't see that yet. And there is no need to be offended by such remarks as it was this morning: a completely absurd, unfortunate statement by Deputy Prime Minister Kowalczyk, an attack on a messenger who asked about what was going on and why there was nothing at the Central Station. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u394	Thank you. Mr Bartłomiej Dorywalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On March 1, we celebrated the National Day of Remembrance for the Soldiers of the Cursed. It was established by the Polish Sejm in 2011 to commemorate those who, after World War II, resisted the force of communist power and stood up for independent Poland, fighting for the right to live in a free and sovereign homeland. The date of 1 March refers to the events of 1951 when the death penalty was imposed on members of the 4th Management Board of the Association of Freedom and Independence - Łukasz Ciepliński, Franciszek Błażej, Mieczysław Kawalac, Józef Batory, Adam Lazarowicz, Karol Chmiel and Józef Rzepce. Their bodies were buried in an unknown place. On Sunday 6 March 2022 in Dobromierz, the municipality of Kluczewsko, at the Primary School. Major Henryk Dobrzanski, ps. The Hubal was organized by the Wolf's Footsteps. The Run of the Memory of the Soldiers of the Cursed. It was a special, X edition of the race. The sport and patriotic event began with a common warm-up, followed by runs: for children, family at 1963 m and Nordic walking and at the end at 5 km and 10 km. More than 350 people were involved, mostly children and young people. After the sports part, the main organizer of the race - the director of the Kindergarten-School Team in Dobromierz Robert Dzierzgwa - invited participants to the historical conference under the mottoNo more war with the participation of Jan Józef Kasprzyk, the head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons and members of the Association of Historical ReconstructionsJod3aż. The idea of running the Wolf's Trop is to pay tribute to soldiers of the Polish anti-communist and anti-Soviet underground operating in the years 1944-163 within the pre-war borders of the Republic of Poland and to popularize knowledge on this subject. The first edition of the race took place in 2011 and in 2013 it included a group of enthusiasts and social activists who decided to organize the course of the Wolf's Trop in the woods near Zegrzynskiego. The editing of the race was a survival one, with 50 participants participating in it. A year later, the race started gaining momentum and was moved to Skaryszewski Park in Warsaw. Since 2015, the event is nationwide and is permanently included in the calendar of cross-country events. The jubilee edition was unique - for the first time, and during the ongoing pandemic, it started in over 1000 places around the world. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u396	Thank you. Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u397	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Solidarity and unity are the elements we need today as much as we have never needed in recent years. But it's also the courage that responsibility is associated with. Coordination, but also peace, inner peace. And a big heart. The great heart of Poles has already shown, but now comes the time of long-term help, the time of coordinated assistance, the time when looking at these people at the stations, the streets, we need to be able to help them, to give them information, to show them the way and to help them. Of course, today's legal solutions we're talking about are one element. But there is also the movement of our hearts, movement of all Poles, which has already been shown, visible in our country, which must turn into a long-term movement. Our role, parliament, authorities, is to take care of the security of the Polish state, to maintain its uniformity, but also to ensure the uniformity of the position of the world, the whole civilized world, the world that can solve disputes in diplomatic talks, not by spilling blood only for its own purposes and benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, this unity, this uniformity will be our strength. If we show that we're together, we'll become a wall that can't be pierced. That is why I am appealing to you for any blood donation. Today, a blood collection took place in Nowy Sącz. There were so many people that we had to separate this fundraiser for three days. We'll be collecting blood for another two days. Food collections, offers to place these people in your homes - it's all beautiful, but now we have to make sure it's systematic, so that it's responsible, so that these people don't feel additional victimisation or additional harm. In this regard, we must also take care of national unity. There are already discussions: why such help, or maybe too much, or maybe not enough. Ladies and gentlemen, help must be sufficient for every guest in the Polish house to feel at home. But of course we are counting on the help of all the civilized countries that I have already mentioned. We look forward to financial aid, humanitarian aid, but also military aid and showing this one great, united unity. Therefore, I thank you for every action, for every manifestation of love, an open heart towards another man, for all that you do. And I'm asking you for more. Let us also be convinced that there are still difficult times ahead of us, because this is not the end, it is only the beginning of rebuilding the community, Ukraine, strong Poland, but also the reconstruction of international security, which Russia has taken from us today, took from us the Federation, or perhaps not, perhaps those who are at the head of it, who are irresponsible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u398	Thank you. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u399	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Committee on Security, High Izbo! The 13th day of war. Every day we pass an empathy exam, showing help to those fleeing the war. Spontaneously and without sufficient support from the rulers, but once again we can be proud that we are Polish and Poles. This war has changed us, but has it taught the rulers anything? Have they changed their ways and alliances? In the face of Russia's attack on Ukraine, did you apologize for these seven years of attacking the Union, for raising EU flags, for supporting Trump, who destroyed the European unity of NATO and openly supported Putin and the aggression against Ukraine? 13 days of war, and you're still stuck in your mistakes. Prime Minister Morawiecki, or on your way to Madrid, meeting with proputin politicians, you knew about Russian plans to attack Ukraine. Let me ask you straight: did you know about the war? What did you guys set up at those meetings? What future have you been preparing for Europe? And now that your pro-Russian alliances have been destroyed, even Le Pen has destroyed over a million leaflets with Putin, would you like to apologize to Poles and Poles for this fall in Poland's importance on the international stage? It's all yours. Did this drama of millions of people sober up one of you? We haven't heard: we're sorry, we were wrong. Therefore, I call you: withdraw from attacking the European community, from anti-EU campaigns, restore the rule of law in Poland, stop fighting independent judges, eliminate the Disciplinar Chamber, spread the neo-KRS. This is not the time to destroy democracy. Every day we pay for your stubbornness a million euros. Isn't it better to use this money to help refugees? To close the dispute with the Union so that it can finally get money from KPOs - that is 750 billion. Fall back from your mistakes. The world will understand and forgive, but will you? No, you'd rather go undercover with political capital. Who do you have to be in the law on helping refugees from Ukraine to give a record that allows you to steal from the state without any penalty? You're doing exactly the same thing as the COVID records. I know how this is gonna end. But is Minister Szumowski sitting? Did Mr. Sasin answer for his envelope choices? The Defense Act, next, how important - but what did you have to throw money out of the budget? It's not about safety, it's about being able to dig in. Instead of giving 3% GDP on defence better repair the damage caused by the Macierewicz army. Bring back the experienced generals. The war in Ukraine changed every Polish woman and every Pole, but the question is whether the PiS can admit its mistakes. Until he wants to quote Marshal Piłsudski: A nation great, only ruling crooks and thieves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u400	Well... Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In a dozen days, laws will enter into force that completely change the rules on the settlement of prosumer energy. But the situation we've had for 13 days has completely changed this approach, and we should look at it differently. Knowing today's dependence on gas, coal or oil, we should be very brave about renewable energy, this renewable energy that has already been installed by 850 000 today. Poles. Year to year, ladies and gentlemen, is 125% more photovoltaic installations on Polish roofs. That's the thing we can still do. We still have a dozen days to restore the old rules, those principles that are praised throughout Europe, that Poles managed to create such a good system of motivation and incentives to create prosumer energy. Today, in the face of this threat, time is suspended. The second issue is the suspension of wind power. It is also an element of our security, which we can build here in Poland, independent of fossil sources imported from other countries. Today's point of view is that we need not only to diversify, but to place even greater emphasis on national, natural, renewable energy sources. We know about the risks of stabilizing these sources, but that's why we have our engineers, and that's why we have our professional energy that can help us. Distributed energy, energy based on renewable energy sources is the energy of the future. Next stage, ladies and gentlemen. Today we have two laws, we have to suspend it, wind energy, and go back to prosumer energy. But the third challenge, which is ahead of us - we must finally start to do it - is the electricity grids. Finally, it needs to be modernised, because often professional energy says that restrictions arise right there. After all, we have the money from the issue, we have the money that the government spends every year on this change. This is today's Polish state right. Poland's right state is to diversify, but to base energy security on Polish sources, renewable sources, on Polish fields, on activities carried out also by Polish local governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u402	Thank you. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u403	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For 15 years women have come to the most beautiful of women on Jasna Gora on their holiday. The main organizer is the Częstochowa branch of Civitas Christianaż, chaired by Izabela Tyras, currently the director of the Press Office of Jasna Góra, and the monastery of the Pauline Fathers. Message from Jasna Góra: On the International Women's Day celebrated today, staring at the wounded face of the Queen Mary of Poland, referring to the great prayer of Polish women from 1926, who, thanking for the victory in the Polish-Bolshevik war, made an act of trust and handed to Our Lady the royal symbols: an apple and a scepter, and also bearing in mind 1982, when the Polish delegations submitted a cup of life and transformation with a plea for respect for every human life gathered on Jasna Góra, women want to ensure their spiritual connection and great solidarity with all Ukrainian women, mothers who suffer from war. We think of those who remain in Ukraine and fight to defend their homeland, those who hide their children in cellars from bomb attacks, those who tend wounds, mourn their loved ones, also those who grab rifles, make Molotov cocktails. We also pray for Russian mothers whose sons also die in the war to express their opposition to sending their children to certain death, against using them to kill innocent people, including defenseless Ukrainian civilians, families, children and seniors. Russian women, don't be indifferent. Stop the war. We beg for peace, repentance and reconciliation. For believers, prayer is the first and greatest force, so we ask for it through Mary's intercession, the most beautiful of women, and we appeal for the unity of all women and the end of the cruel war of death, pain and human harm. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u404	Thank you. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement is about women's day in the context of the war in Ukraine. This year's International Women's Day, a beautiful and warm holiday, is celebrated in the shadow of an international tragedy that takes place beyond our eastern border. I would like to wish all women the best wishes of health, the weather of spirit and the fulfillment of their deepest dreams. First of all, I want to address the Ukrainians who live in our country from this place. Poland does everything to make you feel safe. A lot of Ukrainian women are fighting side by side against the Russian invader. It is your courage and determination that is our driving force. We admire you for your maturity and your ability to find yourself in this extreme situation, and we firmly believe that your husbands and fathers will return alive from the war front and we will all be able to rebuild independent Ukraine together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-08-sejm-50-1.u406	Thank you. Mrs Teresa Glenc, Law and Justice. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. by 9 March 2022, by 9 a.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 18 min 13]]
