ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u1	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Health - h.m. 9, - Culture and means of communication jointly with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights - at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - to Energy, Climate and State Assets - hour. 10, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 10, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 10.30, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 12, - Public Finance - hour. 12.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13, - Infrastructure - hour 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u2	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The competent committees have submitted reports on: - a governmental bill amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals and the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, - Senate draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and Act on debt restructuring of agricultural holding entities. The reports are in prints No 1978 and 1973, respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals and the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities (Prints No. 1960, 1960-A and 1978). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure to submit a report to the Public Finance Commission from print No. 1978 on the Government bill amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals and the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities from Printing No. 1960 and 1960-A. At its 47th meeting on 26 January 2022, the Sejm was held in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law together with the self-correction to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission, after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 26 January 2022, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Amendments were tabled during the committee meeting. Four of them were not supported by the committee and became minority proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u4	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Gontarz will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u5	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals and the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, prints No. 1960 and 1960-A. Ladies and gentlemen! Due to the fact that we raised the tax-free amount in a record way, by PLN 26,909, which was unprecedented before, and we made a decision within the framework of the Polish Order that we would increase the financing of health services, there were some circumstances which so far did not matter much, for example the issue of submitting PIT-2. So far, whether someone had paid PIT-2 or not, PIT-2 has not been so important because this tax-free amount, which was really small a month, was approx. 43 PLN. This amount, 43 zł, which could have been paid either in a given month or after an annual settlement, did not have any significant impact on the remuneration of the person concerned, was less than 1% The average salary, so it didn't really matter. However, at the time of the increase of the tax-free amount to 30,000. zł This advance on income tax can be reduced by up to 425 zł, which is already a real support, an increase in the income of the person concerned. Therefore, there is a change in the possibility to submit PIT-2 - not as it has been so far, i.e. before the first payment in a given tax year, because we give the possibility that this PIT-2 can be submitted on any tax year date. Another issue is the health contribution. If we asked here, in the hall, if you were in favour of capitalization of health care, for health care to have more money, it would certainly be a large part of the room, and perhaps a vast majority, would say: yes, indeed, health care needs to be recapitalised, it needs to be given more money to this health service. But if we asked where to get the money, some would say that from the ATM, some would say that from the pear harvest that grows on the willow. However, ultimately, money for health care is needed, so we decided to increase spending on health care to 7% by 2027. However, due to the fact that we have raised the tax-free amount, even though it is no longer possible to deduct the health contribution from income tax, all those who earn up to PLN 12 800 annually, and who work even if they are on the register, will benefit from the Polish Government on a tax level or it will be neutral for them. However, this will have an annual dimension, i.e. within a year these people will not lose. That is why we are introducing a regulation that will make people who work on the board retire, retirees or work on a contract-order, not lose on a monthly, month-to-month basis, January-January-December-December. So it's going to be beneficial in a month's dimension. The law we are updating today also applies to people with disabilities. It is worth noting that, due to the increase in the tax-free amount, a very large proportion of people with disabilities have in general stopped paying income tax or this income tax pays in a very minimal form. At the same time, as has been the case so far, and as it is now in both sheltered and professional work facilities, this income tax money does not go to the tax office, but to the occupational rehabilitation fund for persons with disabilities or an occupational activity fund. Therefore, in order to counteract the situation in which occupational funds would not be able to really support people with disabilities, provide them with rehabilitation, treat them with disabilities, activate them, we decided that the occupational funds for rehabilitation of persons with disabilities and occupational activity funds should be able to apply for money from PFRON. The idea is that people with disabilities not only gain tax benefits - because very many people who stop paying income tax and are disabled gain tax benefits - but also that rehabilitation and other activities that serve these people continue to be preserved. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend that the law and justice continue to work on this law. At the same time, I am proposing two amendments which have a rather technical dimension. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u6	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Janusz Cichoń to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u7	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The bill announced as a repair, you would say, a deep correction A new tax charge, apart from compensation for losses in respect of sheltered work and professional activities, is basically a farce. In fact, it is a legalisation of the Finance Minister's regulation of 7 January 2022, a regulation issued in excess of statutory delegations and a violation of the Constitution. You're trying to sort out a piece, a fraction of the problems that you've generated in this legal bubble, the New Deal. After a week of the law, it turned out that those who were to gain, lost already today, their payments were lower and were supposed to be higher. Plus, no one knows what kind of tax he's gonna pay. That's normal for your actions - less is more like Orwell's. What you're proposing is just eye soap. On advances: technically, the payer will calculate the advance rate according to the 2022 rules, then according to the 2021 rules. If there is a difference that the advance according to the 2022 rules will be higher than the 2021 rules, this difference will not be charged and the definitive settlement will only be made in an annual statement. Such a mechanism is a way of deferring payment higher than in 2021 of the tax advance, but is not an exemption for the taxpayer from the application of the 2022 provisions. In practice, this may imply a tax surcharge for some taxpayers in December 2022 or in the annual accounts. I stress that these changes do not lead to a tax reduction, but are merely a modification of the obligations of payers and employers, payers and pension authorities to collect advance payments on personal income tax. This is another administrative burden for payers, i.e. Polish entrepreneurs and their accountants. [[Applause]] The project is written on the knee - I said it in my first reading - and it is already a tradition. It's time to move from declaration to action. Still, like the president, you say you're studying. Not art to learn, you have to learn and learn lessons and lessons from your previous activities. The Legislative Office once again claimed that it was not able to analyse the provisions of the Act, in practice - that there is no certainty as to the correctness of its records. Not much, there are records in the bill that are unacceptable and unacceptable. This is the opinion of the Legal Office of the Sejm. But of course, you guys can vote it all out, and you proved it yesterday at the committee meeting. The fact that you expose taxpayers and payers to unpredictable consequences today doesn't really matter to you. It has to be what you want, that's all. Yesterday at the finance committee meeting, you proved that you didn't understand the real effects of the New Deal. You don't get it, for example. The fact that you really canceled the free amount. She was short so far, but she was. [[Zero, zero.]] And today the amount free is zero, because the income is up to 30,000. zł are taxed at a rate of 9% , income between 30 and 120 thousand. zł - at a rate of 26% , and revenues of more than 120 thousand. zł - at 41%. Don't forget, taxpayers still have to pay the ZUS - 19.52%. Some moose possessed you, that's what I feel. You do not realize that in Poland it has stopped, practically speaking, paying for work. That's what these solutions lead to. There aren't any solutions that you've announced about the New Deal adjustment. There is still no relief for the middle class, for contractors, for pensions and pensions. There is no proposal to settle single parents, and we have also heard such a declaration. There is no compensation for NGOs. There is no proposal that the Prime Minister also referred to: a zloty for a zloty. And you're not referring at all to the consequences of the New Deal in business, and they're dramatic, dramatic. It's time to either make a deep adjustment, and it's best to listen to what we've been saying from the very beginning and the part about entrepreneurs just suspend. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u8	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek will now present the position of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u9	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, there was a committee meeting yesterday, and I can honestly say that I already have - as the person who listens to the government - confidence that we are dealing with a great fraud. Just repeating like a mantra that we've all gained that it's a great bill, that's just whispering reality. Stop really, ladies and gentlemen, this is how you approach it, because in January and February Poles receive payouts and see that there is no truth in your words or grain of truth. Because they just get a different paycheck than they expected. They get less pay, and today, of course, you're trying to fix it somehow. And that, unfortunately, can't be fixed. I would really appeal to the rulers to adopt one simple bill suspending the implementation of this new tax system for a year, because it simply cannot be repaired in the way you want to do it. Once again I would like to stress: in our opinion this bill is a project with such an interest-free loan from the state budget to Polish citizens. Today, you are not taking tax money to the state budget, but you will take it in the first quarter of next year. Because otherwise it just can't be. So today's the only solution It is, in short, the suspension of the implementation of this law, otherwise it cannot be done. What you've done when it comes to entrepreneurs is an absolute scandal. Dozens, hundreds of entrepreneurs are calling us, messengers and MPs, and he says they're going back to the manual wage billing system. Why manual wage calculation? It's all done electronically today. Today it is the electronic systems, the IT systems, so today in this law implementing this famous regulation of the Minister of Finance you simply say clearly and simply that you have to charge in the old way, you have to charge in a new way and if something is better, then choose one of these variants. There's no way to do that in big companies, medium-sized companies. It can't be done overnight. This is a huge problem, which unfortunately has appeared. I'm sure we won't be cleaning up this mess for you because that's what you have to do on your own. You took responsibility for implementing the Polish Order and then - once again - I want to emphasize - there were beautiful words, beautiful presentations, beautiful billboards, beautiful information, how much we will all gain. And today, unfortunately, in January, we must adopt laws that correct all these assumptions. And just to be clear, as I know life, this is not the last act, because at each next meeting we will probably adopt further laws, which during the implementation of the Polish Order will try to fix something there. But I want to emphasise one thing: today we are sure that it cannot be fixed. You can't just fix it. This needs to be thrown into the trash and discuss the new system, how it should work. The Left wants to help you in this respect, in the sense that we have a concept regarding the tax system in Poland, which we are currently consulting and which we want to discuss, talk about and we are prepared for such a discussion. Because taxes must be simple, clear, fair, so that each of us knows what he's paying for. Of course, in this bill, you forgot and punished those who raised children alone. I don't know what's in you guys that you're taking this kind of solution. Today we are making an amendment to this bill, which restores this system to what was before 31 December, so that people who raise their children alone do not suffer from your mistakes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the last point, in these self-corrections, I draw attention to that. What does the issue of KGHM and the issue of taxes have to do with Polish Loads in relation to copper deposits? That, too, indicates a complete mess and that you are throwing what comes to mind into this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u10	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will now present the position of the Parliamentary Club, the coalition of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Listening since yesterday to the debate on the contested bill - first reading, then work in committee - I cannot resist the impression that we are dealing with such a situation as if someone buying a car with a defective engine, which refuses to obey, persistently proves that this car will continue to drive after all. Listening to government representatives, representatives of the PiS, you can get that impression. He's not going. A car without an engine won't go. The same holes, the unthinkable, untangled, inconsistent law will not have the desired effect, however positive, it would have been intended, Minister. This is, in short, a big mess. The first days of New Deal revealed many, many shortcomings in the reform. These teachers, the police who received the salary in advance, took much lower salaries in January. As it turned out, it was the result of failing to fill in the PIT-2 form, i.e. the employee's declaration that the employer should take into account the tax-free amount when paying the salary. Who was the government initially responsible for the situation? Not yourself, just accountants, often entrepreneurs with years of internship. This is an appalling situation that should never have happened. Today, any corrective, corrective work - we have this impression - will bring further chaos. I think that our recipe, which we have presented and whose presentation - as far as these prescriptions are concerned - in a moment Mr Siekierski will continue, is really to consider to suspend these provisions, clarify them, then introduce them into relative governance and coherence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u12	Thank you very much. Now Mr Czesław Siekierski will continue to present the position of the Coalition Polska club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u13	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish Government is not a mere act. This is a tax law that affects 25 million people, several million companies, thousands of local governments, and thus affects people, and concerns the situation of many families. This law shapes the image of the state, the power of the state. And that requires a completely different preparation. This required serious consultation with entrepreneurs, local governments, consulting companies. It wasn't done, that's why we have the effects that they are. There's a general confusion. In fact, we've led the tax system to split. You can't do things like that. Millions of taxpayers don't know exactly where they are, they're lost. Hence, it is a good thing that there is an attempt to repair - even problems with parents, the fact that one parent raises children alone or problems with people with disabilities. But we have to pay attention. also for the extremely difficult situation in which Polish companies are in. Mostly it's about people running single-person companies, it's a group of the most vulnerable taxpayers. These changes, which result from the Polish Order, are a huge burden for them, and therefore some measures must be taken to improve or mitigate the negative effects of increased health contributions. Finally, it seems that we need more promotions, information campaigns, explanations. I think public media could also be more involved here. Instead of making unnecessary political mixing and telling how good Polish Load is, one can explain what the various tax problems of different social groups are. It's about us just helping people. Because this, as I said, violates the stability and power of the state. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it's not just a government bill. So what if we didn't support this bill? This law comes out of the Sejm at some point and has the character of a law which is valid in the Polish state. This must be taken into account because it determines the quality of functioning of the Polish state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u14	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mr Arthur Dziambor, who will present the position of the Confederate Group.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u15	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I was going to say otherwise, but after Mr Gontar, trained by the propaganda department, to lie a little bit to the High House here, I said we would review it a little bit. Mr Gontarz said that the amount free was raised by you on record, and in general it spread over how excellent this solution is. Yes, it's a good solution, you should have listened to the Confederation 2 years ago when we proposed our law that the amount free should be 12 times the lowest national one. The problem, however, is that Mr Gontarz did not say that it was completely offset by the tax burden you added. This is what the representative of the Civic Platform was talking about here, so I will not repeat it. But the fact is that the effects of the amount of free money are we really not going to see very much. Second thing. Mr Gontar said about PIT-2: well, such a small thing, you have to fill it out there, we've settled the matter. Actually, it's like there's no problem. Only the problem is in all of Poland with all teachers, and in a few moments it will also be with other employees, because we are only talking about those people who have been paid in advance. They've already learned about the salvific effects of your new shaft. Meanwhile, other employees will already know when they receive their paycheck in January. The next thing Mr Gontarz said was - he put it so nicely - that you increased your expenditure on health care. [[That's not true!]] What Mr Gontarz has not said is that you have increased taxation so that you can move some to health care. So you didn't increase it because none of you gave a penny. You have only increased taxes for the whole of Poland, for all Poles, so that they will finance this project for you. But it will be you who will stand up for the awards; Mr Gontar the first, from what I have heard. Member Gontarz also lied about not losing people earning up to 12,8 thousand. zł. All those in this House have lost, and you know it. Everyone. A week ago, Mateusz Morawiecki must have received from you from 200 texts that said: "What's going on?" because you were terrified as you saw your payouts. You've all lost it, and you know it. The same will happen in a week and Poles will lose, and you know it. Why is this happening? Those mistakes that you're making are because you've hired some of the most distinguished specialists in the Ministry of Finance. One of them got a job as a project: first job. That's the problem, that's the big problem, because you've surrounded yourself with people like that -- people that are clumsy, unfit for nothing. They're the biggest tax project you're doing. He should be withdrawn. You should pull him out and just apologize for him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u16	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u17	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I really regret that the designer of these regulations, the Ministry of Finance, has left us. I completely do not understand why the Ministry of Finance has hidden its head in the sand in such difficult times and does not participate in our very important discussions. Abstracting from the fact that the Ministry of Finance has chickened out, I must admit that yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Public Finance has clearly shown that the government does not want to repair the Polish Government. You came to the committee meeting to mark the action and pretend to be doing something, but in fact this law does not in any way respond to the challenges faced by citizens after 1 January 2022. The committee meeting showed that you do not want to hear the truth about the Polish Deal, about who really lost and who gained on the Polish Lad and whether it is so that the weakest citizens gain from tax changes. You did not want to listen to the justification for the amendments that had been caused to the most vulnerable citizens in some cases to be corrected. I was making an amendment that was supposed to extend relief to the middle class. It was rejected by the votes of the Members of the Law and Justice. I have tabled an amendment that restores the possibility of single parents having a common settlement. Law and Justice rejected the amendment. I have tabled an amendment to make people with the lowest income disability for whom rehabilitation relief is useless today and who cannot benefit from it... The law and justice rejected this amendment. Finally, I have tabled an amendment to ensure that these changes, additional taxation, do not include earning pensioners. You also rejected this amendment. All these changes proposed by us from the beginning, in principle from the original work on the law, I also reported as minority proposals. Minister! Really, when we vote on them, this will be the last time you can really reach out to the weakest people - because they are not people who earn more than 12,8 thousand. I proved yesterday by counting your receipts at the committee meeting and showing you how the system works, complementaryly, and not only on a piece, that they are people who lose on the Polish Lad. It was supposed to be an American (Bingle) dream, a nightmare came out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u18	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Circle The Polish Socialist Party will be presented by Mrs Joanna Senyszyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are dealing with another correction of the PiS mess, called the Polish Ład completely unfoundedly, because it has nothing to do with the Polish order. They were supposed to get the poorest, but of course they didn't. Those most affected, people with disabilities, because they will not pay tax if they have income of up to 30,000. annually, they will be charged a 90% health contribution, and in addition they will not be able to deduct rehabilitation allowances, they will not be able to deduct drug expenditure. Once again, you're correcting a terrible bill that shouldn't have entered into force on 1 January at all. But what were the reasons why you decided to bring her into practice so rapidly and quickly? You were hoping there would be a euphoria that actually dozen million Poles will gain that about 10 million households will gain and therefore you will be able to make early elections because you will no longer last 2 years. Earlier elections might allow you, with this euphoria, if everyone actually gained, to repeat the result - maybe not as good as in the last elections - and to get to the Sejm, which is to extend their term by 2 years. You can see that's not gonna happen now. It's a complete disaster. You should withdraw from this at all because it's a continuous act: a bill amending the law amending the law amending the law - it's starting to be humorous. You simply cannot ridicule the Polish Sejm, you cannot ridicule the legislator with such nonsense, because otherwise you cannot call it. You should have developed a decent project. You should have given time to implement it. And now you're just looking for the guilty. As in the COVID case, doctors and health care are responsible, so here for the failed PiS-owski mess supposedly responsible for the accountants, in a moment entrepreneurs will be responsible for the fact that they pay badly. Come to your senses. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Make decent billings. Proceed over them in the way that every project requires. So there should be debate, amendments, some kind of joint agreement. After all, now we have no debate at all, we just have three minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. The circle of PPS strongly opposes such a procession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u20	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in this item has been exhausted. We approach the questions that are 24. If any of your fellow Members would like to join the list again, this is the moment. I'll close the list in a minute. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. First, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u21	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Five Publishers of PiS! Ladies and gentlemen! I hear a man learns from his mistakes. But is this saying about the camp of the United Right? By bravado and by no reasonable belief in your genius, you have passed this law, which may be an example of how the law should not be created. You have unintelligently begun to repair your work and do so on the same principles as you have worked so far - so a fast legislative road, without expert opinions, without public consultation, without simulations. I would therefore like to ask you a question. Will the Minister of Finance resign if the corrections made do not solve the problems caused by the Polish Load? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u22	Thank you very much. Now Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is good that there are representatives of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. It would be useful if there were still representatives of the Ministry of Finance. Question: "When will an extra toll be taken off for single parents?" When will the tax law be the same as it was with parents who support their children on their own? Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u24	Thank you very much. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the one hand, it is a good thing that solutions are being considered to normalize the scandalously complex tax system in our country today. On the other hand, the new regulations introduced create even greater chaos in total. Let us recall that the new solutions have resulted in lower revenues for the occupational rehabilitation fund for disabled people and the occupational activity fund, which are largely based on advances on income tax, and this has a direct huge impact on the stabilisation and safeguarding of the labour market for more than 100,000. persons, workers with disabilities. At the same time, I'm asking you when you're going to start working on tax solutions to support single, independent parents. Because this group - like many others - has been greatly harmed in this huge tax chaos. Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u26	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Przemysław Koperski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u27	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister is in an ungrateful role today. I'm sorry. I'm sure you're two and three. You have to explain not your ideas today, because there should be a finance minister here, not you, Minister. Like the one sitting here, you are well aware that these changes have caused an extraordinary increase in costs for entrepreneurs. Today, accounting companies raise the cost of their services by several dozen, several dozen percent, because they are unable to work through what you are in the Law and Justice you are inventing. But I said I wouldn't want to bother you with financial questions. I have a question about people with disabilities, because the activity rate of people with disabilities is about 30%. Rather, we are in the latter part, when it comes to indicators - I am talking about the European Union. These solutions that you have introduced have deprived people of financial resources for rehabilitation. There's an attempt to counter it, but it's not enough. Do you have any other proposals, solutions that will help increase professional activity and rehabilitation of people with disabilities in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u28	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Anna Wojciechowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The project is embarrassing and I ask you to withdraw it because there is still time to refine it. No advance payments, which will be reflected in the annual hiccups, the injured single parents and the tax system of business - this is already a horror, literally a horror in the PiS edition. You're looking for money you don't have that you don't have, and entrepreneurs are treated like sesame. Order this system, because neither accounting offices nor accounting offices can keep up with these changes. Companies are unable to plan their business. That's how you stop companies from operating, not to mention their development, because they don't know exactly what they're standing on. On behalf of entrepreneurs, I ask you to systematise this situation. Continuing this policy will be drastic for all Poles. Thousands of companies can be decommissioned and thus job losses and increasing poverty. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish Load is a great unknown to everyone. Shortly: Polish disorder is the disregard of all Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u30	Thank you very much. I do not see Mrs Marta in the Chamber. Then I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u31	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I think that if someone wanted to do the impossible, or complicate the Polish tax system, then the government succeeded. I congratulate the Minister sadly, although in today's state of knowledge, in today's state of social development absolutely, Minister, that was not the point. The idea was to simplify people's lives, but also to leave more money because taxes were actually paying too much. You hit, which is extremely surprising, at pensioners who are trying to make up for their little retirement income. You hit multiple families, which you want to complicate the possibility of getting a PIT-0, preventing their children from actually taking various forms of prizes for good learning results. You forbade people with disabilities to account for rehabilitation reliefs for those who make little money. But you also hit the entrepreneurs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You've complicated the system, you've led them to pay higher costs. All other costs associated with the increases will be charged. Minister! Isn't it time to withdraw from the bad changes that destroy the lives of Poles and Poles? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u32	Thank you very much, sir. Now the question will be asked by Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u33	Mr. Liberty Man Kaczyński! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was wondering what in a minute you could compare this PiS mess, the PiS disorder, to the scale of the tax chaos you introduced. Fortunately, with the help of the authors of the Civil Development blog came to me, that it was as if from day to day, without consultation to introduce left-hand traffic instead of right-hand traffic, while the signs did not change, the stripes did not repaint, and the steering wheel left. Some people drive on the right, some drive on the left, some even invested and bought a car with a steering wheel on the right, but when it comes to what, you still have to withdraw from this left-hand traffic, what you're doing today with this amendment, because accidents are getting more and more. But the money that went to change, the big tax chaos that entrepreneurs invested, we're not gonna get back. It's gone into the mud again. That's exactly how you guys do it. It's like driving without a handhold. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I even think it would be a lot easier for us to adapt to driving on the left side than to this one big tax carambola. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u34	I now invite you to the speaker of Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I'd like to ask you to answer in writing because I don't think you'd be able to confirm that. Solutions introduced by so-called Polish Governance discriminates against low-income families who raise at least four children. The calculations show that for a family whose income exceeds PLN 21 750 total state aid for the fourth child will amount to PLN 3148. When the family does not have any income, the total state aid plus, of course, those taxes amounts to PLN 690. When the income in the family exceeds 150% the minimum wage, i.e. 4500 PLN, will then amount to 1295 PLN. 690 zł, 1295 zł, 3148 zł. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This, of course, goes against the announcement of increasing progress. Conversely: low income families are being robbed. Therefore, I am asking the Minister to answer and calculate what will contradict these solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u36	Thank you very much. Now I invite you to the speaker of Krystyna Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u37	High Izbo! Finally, it's time to tell the truth. 2022 will be the year of higher taxes. Earning up to $3,000. zł - 9% , in the range of 30,000. up to 120 thousand. - 26% , over 120 thousand. - 41% , paying ZUS contribution - 19, 52 - conducting business activity. Increase in electricity and gas prices. Your shields aren't for nothing. This is the truth about the Polish Lad. This is the truth about the Polish Lade that you are repairing today. I see chaos, chaos, as the hero of the sex mission said. And as we see and how Poles call us: you work - you pay and cry. Unfortunately, there are no rules supporting clearing parents alone with their children. There's no rehabilitation relief that the previous speakers were talking about. There is no money to protect health (the bell), because they do not go directly to the National Health Fund. So what have we got? That's what the PiS eagles prepared. PiS eagles aren't flying, they're flightless. If we open the windows at the Ministry of Finance, they won't fly because they've prepared this bubble. It's worth knowing that the Poles know that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Berkowicz will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u39	Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about another failed income tax reform, but let us remind you that income tax is a punishment for work, that is another form of introduction of a law in the Criminal Code, which says: who achieves income, it is punishable by a fine. The greater the income, of course, the greater the penalty. This is an extremely harmful and immoral tax. Then why do you insist on maintaining it? Because you want money in the budget. It's one of several dozen taxes. If we look at the receipts to the central budget, we'll count off what the budget pays itself, that's budget, income tax, pensions, pensions, that's just a few percent of the budget. Because you insist on tax because it is unique. This tax forces Poles to confess to you from how, where, when and how much they earned. He serves surveillance and control over Poles, while wasting a lot of time and energy on ordinary citizens, entrepreneurs and accountants. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Income tax should not be reformed. He needs to be eliminated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u40	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mark Owl.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u41	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In a letter to Prime Minister Morawiecki, President of the National Tax Administration's trade union alternative, he writes that as professional tax officials, they are not able to inform citizens fully of new solutions. The new rules are unclear and vague, and the impact of the current changes on the shape of annual tax accounts raises doubts. This is the reality when it comes to the document that you were vocalizing about, that it is supposed to save Poland. It won't. We already know that. Millions of Poles lost on New Deal. Who loses the most? Those who raise their children alone. Does this change include them? No, they're still gonna pay more. What are they being punished for? That's the question. Taxpayers on linear taxes have 4%. a higher tax burden. They're entrepreneurs, contractors who can't benefit from the mid-class relief. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today you blame these solutions for entrepreneurs, employees in companies, but that is not true. All the blame is borne by the political team of PiS, Morawiecki, Kaczyński. I ask: Where is Minister Soboń, who was supposed to fix Polish Load? We were on the committee yesterday. The Minister wasn't here. Maybe in two weeks, he'll say he had nothing to do with this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u42	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Czarnecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! To remind you: 1990, economic change, Mr Balcerowicz led to 30% unemployment. People worked for $4 an hour. Minister Rostowski, who strangled the development of local governments, led to such a situation that local governments could not commit to investment. The labour market broke down, people worked for PLN 7.8 an hour. Today these people are retired, they're on pensions. They have very low pensions. What did PSL introduce to improve their conditions? Work longer, you'll have more pensions in the future. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Polish Lad led to the fact that these people have pensions higher by 80 zł, 120 zł, 160 zł. Thank you for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u44	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Piotr Boris.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u45	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We're improving New Deal, and where's the author of this mess? Where is Prime Minister Morawiecki, who should be in this debate and listen to all the comments? From this speaker I would like to claim tens of thousands of hardworking miners from the copper pit, from Lubin, Polkowice, Głogów or Legnica. On average, each of them loses between 500 PLN and 1500 PLN on New Deal. monthly. The miners work, they have abnormal working hours. They often work 220 hours a month, work on Saturdays and Sundays. That's 14 months of work a year. You're punishing the miners for this. I demand that their situation be improved so that work after hours is not taxed. It's about not being able to deduct the premium. You can't punish hardworking people for working and risking their lives. Why should they make any more of your mess? Mr. Morawiecki! Come to the copper pit, look the miners in the face and change those bad rules. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u46	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Darius Evening.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u47	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You are repairing issues concerning the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in this Act. Of course, it was predictable that the tax-free amount you are so proud of - this is a good solution to be clear - reduces, among others. the proceeds to this fund. This also reduces revenue to local budgets. Local governments estimate that your tax reform will cost about PLN 11 billion. Therefore, the question is as follows: When do you foresee possible changes to compensate for the tax losses of local governments, just as we do for employees? In my view, this should be calculated in such a way that if local government revenues have fallen since 2021, they must be evened out. You should prepare a legal solution like this. Is there even a plan? Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u48	Thank you very much. I will now ask Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! When a procedated bill appeared two days ago, I thought that the government would begin to correct and correct the great chaos that introduced the Polish tax system on an unprecedented scale. But nothing like that, it's just cosmetic changes, and it's really sanctioning the illegal regulations that issued the Ministry of Finance in this case. At no stage of the work was it possible to get an answer to the question of when there will be a joint settlement of single parents who raise their children, when there will be a relief for the middle class, about which the Prime Minister spoke so much. I have the following question and I ask you to answer it in writing. Has the government assessed the consequences of this pseudo-government for entrepreneurs - after all, entrepreneurs are eliminating their activities - and what are the (Dawn) consequences in the assessment of the government? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the consequences of not having PIT-2. Therefore, in the annual accounts, will the working person who does not deposit this PIT lose any income or not? I mean people who earn less and people who earn more. And the second case, which concerns people with disabilities. What does the employment level of disabled people look like at the moment? Is the level of employment of these people increasing or are these changes in some way reducing their level of employment? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u53	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Polish Charity is a great fraud. You rode around Poland, spent millions of zlotys on promotion. You said it was a good project, and the reality turned out to be completely different. The representatives of all the political parties present in the Sejm have told you that this is a bad project and that it should be discussed, that no major changes can be made in such a short time. You wouldn't listen. Today, not only political parties, but also entrepreneurs, teachers, doctors, disabled people, single parents, police officers, accountants are a total opposition for you. It's January 2022, ladies and gentlemen, and what do we have? We have enormous uncertainty, regulations that de facto no one can understand, chaos and gigantic cost. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I appeal to you for one thing: withdraw from this harmful project. Leave two elements: tax-free amount and tax thresholds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u54	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Grzyb.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I would like to say, in full agreement with what Mr Grabczuk said, that there are two elements that are undoubtedly important and good from the point of view of social acceptance: the tax-free amount and tax thresholds. No one's questioning that. In this regulation, however, there are a series of surprises that appear every day. An example is the failure to include remanents in companies from which, if nothing changes, entrepreneurs will have to pay a contribution. If they sell supplies because they could produce, they'll have to pay a health contribution, and this surprise will meet them in February. In my opinion, this is an issue that requires urgent resolution, because it is not taken into account that stocks (the bell) or products produced remain at the end of the year that can be sold, for example. in January, from which health contributions will have to be paid. It increases the amount. These are very high amounts calculated, as also pointed out by the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u56	Thank you very much. I invite you to the speaker of Mr Czesław Aekierski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u57	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The proposed changes are making increasing transfers on the financial side. So what is the distribution: who will gain, who will lose when it comes to taxpayers, and what will this have to do with the budget? What will be the increase in health impacts? Is the whole operation really worth the fuss, the mess, or is there still time, as many Members have said, to make a return on this matter, to admit a mistake? It's not a shame, it's rather a good testimony, rather than an insult. Finally, are there still consultations with different entrepreneurs, different companies? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I was talking about it at first. What is the explanatory action plan? And finally, who really and for what is responsible for this Polish Deal? Because I am asked by the voters who is behind this, who is the face of this Polish reform under the beautiful slogan: Polski Ład. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u58	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Noblecht.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u59	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Polish Load is a large, large financial and tax project, unprecedented so far, in recent decades, in Polish legislation, which covers tens, millions of Polish citizens and is to effectively leave in the pockets of Polish families tens of billions of zlotys, not millions - billions of zlotys. This is a project. not only tax, but also civilization, which causes great emotions in the opposition, just because it goes to most Poles, meets their expectations. This project is not perfect because with such a large project we touch tens of tax laws. The government shall acknowledge this and make appropriate adjustments. Yes, he's making adjustments to the PIT-2 deposit. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think that as a result we will all be proud that during the crisis, we are implementing this project to Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u60	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska. [[At the committee meeting, unfortunately, she had to go.]] I see. Mr Artur Dziambor, then.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u61	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to say that thanks to you, thanks to your activities Poles will find out this year - some have already found out, but some will find out next week - what is PIT-2. Poles also finally learn what inflation is and what influence the government has on this inflation, what it can do, what it has done wrong. Poles also learn what interest rates mean, what the Monetary Policy Council is about, what it decides. Poles also learn that Mr Glapiński is not just a colleague of Jarosław Kaczyński. He really affects our lives, our wealth, somehow our development opportunities. Thanks to you Poles through tears learn what a hopeless government you are and how badly your management went. You should get off this New Deal as soon as you can, back off, just say, "Sorry and get out of here." Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u62	Thank you very much. I invite you to Mr Dariusz Klimczak's speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u63	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to say that, after 1 January, when this tax Titanic PiS went on a cruise, many members of the opposition spoke to many professional groups who presented their situation. We at the Polish Coalition Club, as Members of the PSL, also organized meetings with them, not only to try to help these people, but also to present their demands here in Parliament. I had meetings with teachers, my colleagues with uniformed services, businessmen, farmers, etc. The situation was very tragic. One of the teachers whose husband died last year because he had an oncology disease all his life and her children didn't get a pension, after a new year she got 300 zlotys less salary. Minister! Government representatives! Will this amendment help these people? This is very important - because I do not see in this project (The Bell) comprehensive solutions, answers to all the problems of these people, from teachers to uniformed services, to entrepreneurs, farmers - so that you can respond in a legislative way that they will not lose financially on your reform. And one last thing. Mr Siekierski had just asked who was the face of this so-called'same'. It's a polish deal. Mr President, I will tell you: this is Prime Minister Morawiecki and six vice-ministers in the Ministry of Finance. The old folk saying says where the cook six There's nothing to eat there. That's the answer. That's why they took the seventh. This seventh Deputy Minister will be the face of the amendments we are investigating today, and he will be responsible for the fact that nothing will change in Poland in fact after this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u64	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Senyshin.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why does the government want to take revenge on people who have worked for a very long time and thus have high pensions? Prime Minister Morawiecki, on the one hand, urges us to work longer so that women do not retire at the age of 60 and men at the age of 65, but on the other hand, those who have worked longer are punished. The longest time in Poland - 62 years of working with lead - was worked by a man who, as a result, retired at the age of almost 80 and his pension is 35 thousand. zł, because he has raised so many contributions. He's been paying 113 grand so far. tax, now he's gonna pay 150,000. annual tax, i.e. $37,000. More. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are you robbing retired people like that? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u66	Thank you very much. A series of questions closes Iwona Hartwich.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u67	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! To begin with, I will remind you how much benefits are paid to people with disabilities in Poland. The social pension is PLN 1138 - that is PLN 37 per day - and the nursing allowance that was frozen by 2023 is only PLN 218, which gives us parents of disabled children an hour of rehabilitation. PiS has complicated the settlement system in a really complicated life of people with disabilities. He has deprived us, families and people with disabilities, practically accounting for revenue from 1%. These were real measures that helped in a normal life, in terms of being, this weakest group. Of course, he also denied the possibility to deduct the rehabilitation allowance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question for the Minister and I ask for a written reply: How are people with disabilities on a social pension to deduct rehabilitation relief? When are you gonna raise your pension? When will you lift the criterion of the amount of the benefit up to PLN 500 for those unable to live alone after 18 years of age? [[Applause]] When are you gonna increase the rehab time limit? When will there finally be free pampers in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u68	Thank you very much, Member. Just as yesterday, two ministers will also speak today. First - Minister Jan Sarnowski, Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, in remote mode. There you go. [[The statement of the Undersecretary of State is displayed on the screens]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u69	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It's a social bullshit. 2022 will be the year of higher taxes. Bad changes that destroy the lives of Poles and Poles. Ladies and gentlemen! 17 billion PLN more in taxpayers' pockets this year. 18 million people who gain, that is 70% taxpayers. For 92% Tax payers in Poland tax changes of the Polish Order are positive or neutral. And this is data without taking into account the proposal to extend the tax changes of the Polish Order presented by Prime Minister Morawiecki last week, i.e. without extending the discount for the middle class to the next categories of taxpayers: pensioners and pensioners to the level of 12 800 PLN, contract contracts or academic teachers. Let me repeat: 17 billion PLN. Real money in taxpayers' pockets, real money in the pockets of these Poles, who especially now, during this difficult time most need them. Simple information from the Social Insurance Institution, because from there this information gets to us as soon as possible: 8150 thousand. Retirement and pensioners who already received higher benefits in January. That's over 95% of all recipients. 860 million PLN more than last year, which thanks to the tax changes of the Polish Load came to them only in January. And it's not virtual money, it's real money that's already in their wallets. Polish Lad. 64,000. families raising four children with the right to very high relief. 0.5 Millions of people who, thanks to the changes in taxes, will have the right to settle with their spouse for the first time. 530 thousand. the smallest entrepreneurs, who will already have a lower tax and contribution burden. In view of the whole year's pro-investment reliefs, incentives for innovation, relief for foreign expansion. Can these changes be withdrawn, as many of you suggest? Can we withdraw from the changes expected and advocated by taxpayers? Can you take 16 million people who, thanks to tax changes already in January, have received higher salaries, these funds simply, apologize and say that this is an unrealistic, unnecessary project? Of course not. Ladies and gentlemen! The question of further questions, the question of PIT-2. The rules already allow the use of the tax-free amount not only at the end of the year, but also at the settlement stage of monthly tax advances. The application for such monthly deduction of part of the tax-free amount shall be made to PIT-2 printing. Thanks to it, the tax to be paid each month can decrease by up to PLN 450. In the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, the employee may submit such an application at any time, also during the tax year, so that if he has not done so before, possibly if he has lodged at a place where he earns little, e.g. less than the minimum wage, it can make such an adjustment, it can simply withdraw this PIT in one place and deposit in the other. As a result, the employer will simply charge a lower advance on the tax as from the following month after the submission of such an application. The proposal, which is the subject of the debate today, guarantees that no employer will refuse to accept this PIT-2 form even during the tax year. As far as the consequences of not paying PIT-2 during the tax year are concerned, there is no loss for the taxpayer here because the full tax-free amount will be 100% included in the annual accounts. We are now only talking about the fact that this benefit from tax changes of the Polish Government, the benefit of the 10 times raised tax-free amount, appears to taxpayers as soon as possible, preferably already at the stage of advance payments, in the form of a reduction of tax to be paid in the form of advance by more than 400 PLN. The regulation and the law that we are currently investigating are intended to protect all employees, contractors, pensioners and pensioners who earn income up to PLN 12 800 from possible collection of higher tax advances from them, which could result in lower salaries. This presentation is very, very necessary and protects Poles' salaries. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that I would very much like to ask the High House to accept these solutions positively. Given the fact that speaking time is over, I declare the answer to all other written questions raised today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Szwed, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards matters relating to our project, issues concerning disabled people, occupational and social rehabilitation, this change which will result in the possibility of creating both an occupational rehabilitation fund for disabled persons and an occupational activity fund will be up-to-date and this solution will significantly improve this situation. On the one hand, this year it will amount to 150 million from PFRON, and next year it will already be allocated from the state budget. This is a solution that will ensure that an occupational rehabilitation fund can operate in order to allocate these funds to finance occupational, social and treatment of people with disabilities. In this context, there were also questions concerning people with disabilities. It is worth reminding here that in recent years there has been a significant increase in expenditure for people with disabilities. If we compare this in such a number of absolutes, in 2015 it was the amount of PLN 16 billion, now it is already over PLN 32 billion. This includes the "Availability+" programme for the coming years - almost PLN 25 billion, but also other programmes that actively support people with disabilities. Recently, an additional PLN 1 billion has been allocated by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki for people with disabilities. These are actions that significantly improve the situation of people with disabilities. There were also questions about indicators. These indicators are higher, both for the activity of disabled people and for employment, thanks to the expenditure that we address to people with disabilities. In this discussion, there is also a thread on pensions and pensions. This case is already solved. We remind you that when it comes to over 400,000. those who had a lower pension in January will be equal in February and all persons, pensioners and pensioners with benefits up to PLN 12 800 or they will have an increase in benefits, or it will be neutral for them. Today we already know what the Minister was talking about, that more than 8150,000. as early as January, pensioners received higher benefits. It's almost 95%. pensioners. So that these solutions, which with such a big project are born in pain, bring great benefits to pensioners and pensioners, but also to all those who will gain on the Polish Łódź. Nearly 18 billion will remain in the pockets of our compatriots. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u72	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and the Act on debt restructuring of agricultural holding entities (prints No. 1938 and 1973). I ask Mr Robert Telus to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u73	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights a report on the Senate draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and the Law on debt restructuring of farm operators, print No. 1938. Sejm at its 47th meeting on 26 January 2022 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. At the same time, the Sejm pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have set a time limit for the submission of the report to be discussed at the current sitting of the Sejm. Commissions: Agriculture and Rural Development and Justice and Human Rights after considering this bill at the meeting yesterday, 26 January, ask the High Sejm to announce the attached draft. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a project that the senators presented. The Senate presented such a project at the request of farmers, as well as banks, because banks, unable to secure loans, ceased to provide or to a very small extent provide loans and loans to farmers. Therefore, such a project must be adopted. We'll think about how to protect farmers from bidding, but it'll be in the future. At the moment, the Senate presented this project as a matter of urgency so that the banks could lend to farmers. At yesterday's committee meeting, President Krzysztof July tabled one amendment which the committees accepted, as well as President Jarosław Sachajko tabled two amendments which the committees rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u74	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof July, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. There's no envoy. Then please, because Mr Piotr Boris is present in the Chamber... [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr July is here.]] Then perhaps Mr Piotr Boris will wait a while, because Mr July has already arrived, the order will be preserved.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u75	Thank you, Marshal. I'm very sorry, but I'm running straight from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Hence my shortness of breath. Then why don't you rest for a while? Because Mr Piotr Boris was actually on standby. No, I think we can do this. We're not gonna make a fuss anymore. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to present our position in the context presented this time by the joint committees of the draft law on the revision of the Civil Procedure Code, because, in fact, after the amendment made by my parliamentary club... It is based on the deletion of the proposed Article. 2 which referred to the restructuring of the loan repayment guarantee which could have been granted under the European Commission's decision of 8 April 2020 According to that decision, such guarantees for repayment of the loan could have been in place by the end of the previous year, i.e. by 31 December 2021. Therefore, after consulting the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, my parliamentary club decided to make an amendment to the deletion of the article. 2 of this proposal to amend the Act in the Senate so that the Act is limited to the regulation on amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure. We talked about the good results of this presentation yesterday at first reading, so I will not refer to it today. So I would like the High Sejm to support this bill. I am so convinced that there will be no more amendments at second reading. I therefore request support for the draft law, which has been submitted for second reading in the relevant printing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u76	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Piotr Boris to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u77	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Once again, I would like to thank Senator Bober for the initiative of the Senate, which has clearly begun the procedure resulting from the need for assistance, in fact, to farmers who are in difficulty as regards the issue of restructuring the debt of their farms. Hence these necessary amendments related to the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding entities. We, of course, support these assumptions. It is a good thing that yesterday's discussion took place, because it really clearly pointed out the problems arising from the regulatory needs of the various laws. And while it is really necessary to revise the Civil Procedure Code in order to be able to restructure debt so that banks can also be more flexible about the possibility of rescuing agricultural holdings, to grant credit to modify it, we learned clearly yesterday that the law on debt restructuring of farmers' holdings in fact, as far as their large possibilities in terms of interference, assistance and support are concerned, has actually ceased to function, as the instrument was placed for the period until the end of December 2021. Hence, I understand the amendment of the representative of Law and Justice. What does that mean? This means that the High Sejm should apply separately to the Debt Restructuring Act and all forms of support, especially today, when farm costs are rising. Avian influenza, ASF, a huge increase in fertiliser prices, increased labour costs make all those farms that had previously taken up loans and invested difficult situations. At the same time, we know that agricultural holdings are one of the most reliable entities among those to whom banks lend, the representatives of Polish banking, including cooperative banks, spoke about this. These are some of the most reliable debt-payers, but often the living situation and the situation on the agricultural market are simply changing dramatically, farmers are increasingly being placed, for unbiased reasons, in a difficult situation because of the increased costs that make it impossible to pay back. Therefore, we will call on the government to decide on urgent work on the law on debt restructuring of farm operators, so that this instrument of support, which will require notification to the European Commission, especially at this time, can serve Polish farmers who are in a difficult situation this year. KOWR with millions, tens, hundreds of millions of zlotys should actively participate in the rescue of farms, which, I stress once again, often for reasons which they do not have the ability to pay back already made loans. It is often the bank and KOWR that are those necessary to ensure that the holdings are not auctioned so that it is possible to help especially those who operate for many years run farms that can be rescued. That is why we call for this law to be parallel, in a moment, to be examined by the High Sejm and for proposals to come from the ministerial side. What awaits us in terms of helping farms is this time, this year and this very difficult situation that we are facing in the current reality. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u78	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jan Szopiński, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank Senator Ryszard Bober very warmly for taking this initiative, an initiative so much awaited by Polish farmers, so much expected by Polish farms. After all, we cannot allow farmers not to receive loans. And it's a good thing that we have the Senate, and it's a good thing that the Senate is trying to correct the mistakes made in making laws in our country. Therefore, once again these very heartfelt thanks. I would like to say that my club has read the bill and will vote in favour of it. We are convinced that implementing it is on the one hand an opportunity for Polish farms and, on the other hand, a hand drawn out by the Sejm to ensure that agricultural holdings, those which need these loans, have this opportunity and opportunity. In connection with yesterday's discussion, we are also talking about starting a discussion, starting a law on restructuring the debts of agricultural holdings, because their costs, even in the form of increased costs associated with the purchase of fertilisers, have recently increased dramatically. We therefore thank you once again on behalf of the Left Club for taking this initiative and we will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u80	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Stefan Krajewski will now speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u81	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives in relation to the amendment of the Act amending the Act - Code of Civil Procedure and the Act on debt restructuring of agricultural entities, print No. 1938. This was the subject of a committee meeting. We are pleased that we are able to fix what really is a little bit through the amendment that we voted on in December has blocked lending. It was reported by employees, directors, bank presidents, but also by farmers interested in loans who, for various reasons, want to borrow them. We know very well that they also serve investments in the economy, but sometimes they need to be drawn up to respond on an ongoing basis to rising production costs, increased prices for fertilisers, fuels and electricity. All of this has been blocked in some way and it is good that today we are working on it to restore it and give farmers the opportunity to develop further. In fact, since Poland's entry into the European Union, Polish farmers have invested very much. They change the machinery park, modernize, build new pigsty houses, sheds, henhouses, warehouse buildings for production and it is noticeable throughout the country and you must continue to support it. This issue, which has emerged, is related to the KOWR being first among creditors, as is the case at the moment, when the holding is in debt and is trying to restructure this debt. Unfortunately, banks and various entities do not want to agree to this process if KOWR is placed first, because then their claims are later discovered, they do not have the means to wait for it. On the other hand, KOWR, the National Agricultural Support Centre, should support these farmers. Observing what is happening today in the Polish countryside, the farms that took up this debt restructuring effort are not able to do so, decisions are made to stop restructuring for precisely these reasons. This is what farmers point to in many places. Do we really want these farms, colloquially speaking, to get out of this debt so that they can produce again? This debt arises for many reasons, sometimes it is a farmer's disease, an animal disease - and this needs to be taken into account, it needs to be helped. Unfortunately, this yesterday's amendment by Mr Lipc is again dismissed and farmers will not receive this aid. Today we should all be in favour of supporting Polish farmers, because otherwise we will have further signals from all voivodships, because it is the fellow Members from different parts of Poland who signal this problem. We need to do everything we can to support them, above all, to require this from the National Agricultural Support Centre, which at the moment receives even more money under lease rents, due to the new conversion to the high price of the quintal of wheat, so these measures should be found and such aid to farmers should go as soon as possible. We should proceed with this, as it happens, in a quick way, otherwise there will be a break in the lending of Polish farmers. The second thing, very disturbing, which I already mentioned yesterday, is that if farmers do not go to these banks to borrow, they will go to parabanks and various companies, which are not entirely honest or understandable for them to offer such assistance. Of course, we support the whole thing, but there is still time for this amendment by Mr Ring of July to be rejected in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u82	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoñ, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u83	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the Senate bill amending the Act - Code of Civil Procedure and the Act on restructuring and debt of agricultural holding entities after presentation of the report of the committee. The draft law concerns a change in the scope of unblocking the possibility for agricultural holdings to lend their activities. It is worth recalling that the existing rules, which were adopted following the proposal, caused the credit action to be stopped because the institutions that lend the business could not enter an appropriate mortgage to ensure that the credit would be adequately secured. This situation is absolutely harmful to agriculture, to entrepreneurs, to farmers engaged in this activity, leading to a reduction in agricultural production. This also implies a situation in which farms cannot grow, which is contrary to the well-understood interests of the state and agriculture. That's why this bill is needed, which is why this amendment is going in the right direction. On the other hand, I think it is worth referring to what happened during the committee meeting yesterday. It turned out that within the majority, within the United Right and those wheels, which are allies of the United Right, there was a division. Part of the government coalition wanted to sleep the article. 1 and 3 and another part of this coalition wanted to remove the article. 2. This is really a curiosity situation. All other clubs were in the position that the removal of one or the other element would not be so beneficial for farmers - for farmers, I am not talking here about the Treasury or about the institutions providing these loans, but about the agricultural sector, about the entrepreneurs who carry on this activity, about farmers who run agricultural holdings. I have to say that these situations should not happen, because this shows that it is really about different interests within the coalition that governs today, not about the welfare of agriculture, not about the welfare of farmers who run farms. These events, what happened, we're judging very negatively. I would also like to stress that Poland 2050 is very supportive of farmers, including farmers who run agricultural holdings. Thanks to farmers we feel safe, Poles have provided food. Thanks to good, healthy production, Poland can boast a high level of export of these products. This, of course, has a positive impact on the lives and activities of producers, but also contributes to the increase of Poland's presence as a national brand in other markets in Europe and around the world. As part of this support, we will also support this bill, although, as I say, we do not believe that the change that has been voted on, i.e. leaving the provision that the guarantee for repayment of the restructuring loan and the associated mortgage to the National Agricultural Support Centre, will have to be recorded in the first place in the mortgage book... We believe that today this does not solve all the problems of agriculture. Poland 2050 sees and receives these signals very clearly from farmers who say that the cost of production makes the activities of producers less profitable. This is today's challenge to the government. It cannot be that the government raises its wages, increases the budget allocated to maintaining the Prime Minister's firm four times, and farmers at the same time have halved their income. This can't be right. The priority should be agriculture, people should be (the bell) working hard, should be Polish companies, Polish enterprises, not the comfortable life of government officials, because it is not from this that the parliamentary majority of Law and Justice and government officials are. In conclusion, we will support any good reform for agriculture, while we will negatively assess situations where agriculture becomes an example of areas where these actions are negative. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u84	Thank you very much, sir. We're joining Question Time. 11 people signed up for them. If any of you would like to join us again, this is the moment. If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. First, Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u85	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I would ask the Minister to prepare and submit a legal opinion to me at a later date. It's about the question I've been asked, which I can't interpret. According to the provisions of this law, we exclude the exclusion from execution in the event of simultaneous referral of executions to all property belonging to the agricultural holding. What if, as a result of previous claims on a holding, we have an execution addressed only to one property and, at the request of another creditor, the execution of the other property? The record, which is currently in place, does not give the creditor any guarantee that his claim will be enforced on all assets, identical to the situation before the described... It's about art. 829 laws. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u86	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Rafał Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Each of us knows exactly where the bread comes from, where the milk comes from in the store. I think that this very important amendment, which corrects the original error and facilitates the collection and application of loans by farmers, should be supported. The only question is why they were excluded from the original law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u89	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I wanted to ask you, first of all, why the Ministry kindly referred to this change yesterday, which was the removal of the article. 2. Secondly, what is the global value of these guarantees for restructuring loans that have been entered in the perpetual books today? What's the size scale? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u90	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, On the occasion of the process of the previous law that we are amending today, I would like to ask what was the government's position at the time. Because if the Ministry of Agriculture, which has the opportunity to consult, was not able to catch the mistake that we need to correct today - which would hinder the possibility of lending to farmers, but also in a very difficult situation would put cooperative banks - it is a question whether, once again, when we are now changing this bill prepared by the Senate in a deeper way, we will not lead to another congestion. I would like to ask for the Minister's clear position on this amendment, whether it will make the situation of farmers worse as regards the possibility of receiving loans (the Bell) and whether it will also make the situation of banks, in particular cooperative banks, which would have to create appropriate reserves. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u92	Thank you very much. Mrs Margaret Navel, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law should address the problem of obtaining the collateral required for the granting of the financing of agricultural activities by banks. Three articles comprehensively remove the blockades that have emerged. Nevertheless, I have a question about the current situation of farmers, which has clearly deteriorated recently. This is related to the drastic increases in the prices of fertilisers, labour costs and others. Does the government provide for aid for the purchase of these goods and when can appropriate provisions be expected in this regard? I wanted to ask you how much aid has been granted to entities so far under the Debt Restructuring Act. I would also like to ask you to answer the question of the measures provided for in the Budget Act (Book) for the current year for aid to agricultural holdings in difficulty in repayment of loans. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u94	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Krystyna Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u95	For the first time in this House, we can say that the correction of this error, which has been made in connection with the restructuring of agricultural loans, and this rapid procedure, was due to the Senate initiative. I have specific questions for the Minister, because the situation of farmers is not the best, about your cooperation: the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Justice to quickly enter mortgages - this applies to farmers and other borrowers - on mortgages, the order of entries and the entry into the empty place not only to KOWR, which will be the second mortgage, but to the first place in the emptied mortgages, so that there is no need for a special procedure for farmers to make a special declaration to the notary. Thirdly, are new solutions for the guarantee of the Bank of National Farms for farmers planned? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You know perfectly well that I'm interested in the ASF case, I'm from Podkarpacie. Have there been and how many resources entered veterinary inspections and how much employment has increased in inspections today? Because it was just declarations, and the support to farmers for the ASF compensation is extremely small in the district I asked about. I would like a written reply to these last questions in the ASF case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u96	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Stefan Krajewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u97	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In that case, if we pass this law in the format that we have prepared, is there a chance to lean on the actual restructuring, on this law, to consult farmers - with those who, of course, have theoretical knowledge, but also practical knowledge - and with banks, so that we can prepare for calmly, without haste, without any unnecessary nerves such a project that will actually support farmers, will help them out of the crisis? I think there should be an agreement in this agreement between the whole House so that we can work this out together and make a good bill. Otherwise, we will only discuss it in a often barren way, and farmers will not see the results. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u98	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Piotr Boris.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u99	Dear Minister, Mr. Marshal! During the work on this law, actually on two laws, it turned out that we are not prepared to use effectively the law, which actually loses its power in terms of a large instrument of support, I am talking about the law on restructuring the debt of agricultural holdings. She was negotiated in even long, long years with the European Commission and most of the instruments lost power in December. My question comes down to what legislative action the government is planning to take to make this instrument of support... I think there will be tens and hundreds, perhaps even thousands of farmers in a very difficult situation because of what is happening on the agricultural market, on this huge cost, labour costs, expensive fertilisers. Perhaps some people will have to be helped. These are long-term farms, and now I'm sure... My question is, when the government prepares such a bill as is provided for in the budget for this year (the bell), what is the readiness of the NEBR to help in this regard. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u100	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Grzyb.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think we have two good informations about working on this change, a short novel about the Code of Civil Procedure. On the one hand, we are removing all the objections raised by cooperative banks and other banks which have noted that they will have to reserve for this change which has been introduced into the Code of Civil Procedure. Thus, firstly, we will dismiss this threat that cooperative banks, i.e. smaller banks, with lower capitalization, will not lend to farmers and secondly, farmers will be able to benefit from credit. Because it is not possible to do agricultural work at the moment, a decent agricultural activity without credit - we all know that very well - especially when the economic conditions associated with growth, for example. Fertilizer prices, energy prices make these costs increase considerably. The second valuable information is that, by the way, it turned out that the law on restructuring the debt of agricultural holdings ceased to function in the part that is most important from the point of view of its functioning. And here, of course, a very urgent request to the government (the bell) for work. On the other hand, I represent Wielkopolska, where both agricultural authorities and farmers and cooperative banks called for this change to be made, due to the fact that this is the region which has the highest production e.g. pork, and ASF decimated these farms, and there will really need a very strong financial intervention to raise these farms to reverse this trend in production. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u102	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Agriculture is becoming an increasingly strong sector of our economy, we have an increasing export rate, so we absolutely should develop agriculture. But today it is fair to say that farmers are in quite a difficult situation. Firstly, ASF hit the farmers very hard. Secondly, there are very high prices of fertilisers, even several times higher than they were last year, including energy prices, gas prices. At the same time, we know that farmers want to develop their farms, and in many cases they do not have financial resources. It is therefore our duty to secure their access to various types of credit. Because the number of farmers who have secured funds that can invest without loans is very small. I have a question for the Minister. Minister, many farmers, many rural areas have benefited from the European bell. What's the situation today? I ask you as a representative of the government: How do you feel when European money, from the European Union, goes to Polish farmers as well? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u104	Thank you very much. A series of questions will be concluded by Mr Leszek Galemba.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u105	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice has led agriculture to become a strategic branch, and we are very concerned about its development, so that farms can grow. It's number one. Most importantly, the previous law overstepped the security system. That's why we're responding. E.g. At the last meeting of the Agricultural Chambers in Kole, the President of the Folk Bank in Strzelkow asked. I gave this to Minister Bartosik. There's a reaction. Today we are debating and restoring opportunities for farm development. Farmers don't need restrictions. Farmers want to act, they want to grow, and they want to have tools. And just allowing cooperative banks to lend, the local ones, the small ones, gives us that chance. Today we know that the Government of Law and Justice reacts and strengthens agriculture, wants (the bell) so that farmers can grow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u106	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Ryszard Bartosik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u107	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! [[The bell, the fun in the room.]] I would like to call on the High House to adopt a law quickly, along with an amendment tabled by the Law and Justice Club, which the Ministry of Agriculture supports. Ladies and gentlemen! A little bit of history, because we thank each other here. I think that there is nothing to thank, but it is worth to quickly correct the error that has arisen. I just wanted to explain where he came from. It was our intention that the provisions contained in the Regulation of the Minister of Justice should be transferred directly to the Civil Law Code, to the Act. This was not the case because, at the request of Senator Richard Bober, a change was made to the Senate, which is precisely what is currently in force in the Act, which has been in force since 10 January this year. I am very pleased that, after reflection, Senator Bober came to us and fixed his mistake. So much for all the thanks, because that was the story and course of the legislative process. The second point - the issue of loans. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an urgent project. We talked a lot about credit problems here, about the fact that farmers might have trouble paying back. This is all true, only yesterday at the committee meeting, a bank representative said that farmers are a professional group that is best placed to repay loans, and those loans that are not repaid are marginal. That's what we need to consider, and we're talking margin here. We must make it clear to ourselves that credit is necessary, is necessary to carry out agricultural activities, especially for those farms which are commodity which produce for the market. Without credit, we are unable to function and produce in the countryside. Credit isn't bad. It is of course risky, it involves responsibility, but it helps, of course, in agricultural production. Therefore, it is necessary to amend the law quickly, which entered into force on 10 January this year. As regards the amendment - and this will be the answer to many questions - tabled by Mr Krzysztof July, the amendment of Law and Justice, I would ask you, however, to lean on the justification of this amendment, because it concerns the guarantee of repayment of the restructuring loan, which could only be granted until 31 December 2021. The European Commission does not agree to this. Let us take this first of all into account, but this only applies to guarantees. On the other hand, the law is in force, as has been the case so far, and this is a separate law concerning restructuring. I will agree with many speakers that it is worth leaning on this problem. Please note, however, that when this law was passed, there was a need for notification of that law. It took many, many months and the European Commission did not want the farmer who has problems to benefit from his own contribution. There is such a provision in this law and it significantly restricts restructuring. Because if a farmer has trouble paying his credit, it's obvious that he doesn't have his own contribution. But it's a decision. The European Commission, which in another version did not want to notify us of this law. Now the task for us: Will we be able to find another solution, knowing the European Commission's position? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I agree that this problem is worth working on. Ladies and gentlemen! I will answer the questions that have been asked here in writing. Once again, I ask that the law be adopted quickly, along with the amendment of the Law and Justice, which the Minister of Agriculture supports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u108	Thank you very much, Minister. The committee rapporteur, President Robert Telus, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u109	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, A few things I'd like to straighten out because they were wrongly mentioned here. Mr PL, two fifty, twenty, fifty, spoke about the fact that the Members of the United Right made two different amendments, which were even somehow excluded. That is not true, because the amendment was tabled by Mr Krzysztof July, i.e. The United Right, Law and Justice, and two amendments were tabled by Mr Sachaika, i.e. Kukiz.15. If this is how we want to combine, just as PL twenty-fifty would be a party of the Civic Platform. It's like we want to connect. No, they're two clubs and they've made separate... Mr. Chairman, may I interrupt you? You know very well what the name of a given circle and club is. If not, I can tell you again. We're trying not to twist the name of your circle or your club, no matter where you are, and we're asking you to... This is the Circle. Parliamentary Poland 2050. [[Voice from the room: Briefly.]] That's what it's called, that's the name that was adopted by the Sejm and the Sejm Bureau. You're welcome. Mr. Marshal, of course. Did I not say that? [[Voice from the hall: Poland.]] Oh, 'cause I said PL. Poland 2050. Of course I wanted to... I'm sorry. You said two fifty and many others... I understand, of course, Mr. Marshal. It wasn't intentional. I was just saying shortcuts, but of course it's Poland 2050, a parliamentary club. There's no problem here. There wasn't any, I don't know, malice or change here. Next thing. On several occasions, the issue was that farmers were excluded, that someone had made a mistake. That's not the point, ladies and gentlemen. We have two things. On the one hand, we have indebted farmers and the point is that very often they were bidding, tractors were taken away, the field, everything, all the equipment. On the other hand, the loan case came up. That bill was designed to secure the bidding. There are many examples in history when tractors were even bid on or taken from neighbors, not just farmers. It was done. Very bad. That's why that bill was meant to secure it. It secured those who were being auctioned and, on the other hand, it happened that the banks did not want to lend at the moment. So that no one here did it to rule anyone out, only it was to secure those farmers who fell in different ways in debt to just save them. The next topic, which was discussed here, is not entirely in line with the law, but was moved, it has to be said - the price of fertilisers. Dear Member States, of course, that fertiliser prices are very high all over Europe at the moment, and this is linked to an increase in gas prices. Why is there such an increase in gas prices, we also know, because the policy of the European Union has allowed us to have one supplier in Europe at the moment, which can raise prices tenfold, because it has been so. This is one factor that raised prices very high. The second factor is CO2 emissions and we know who has decided that nitrogen plants must pay again 10 times higher rates for CO2 than those that have been so far. This is also a policy of the European Union and recently so-called. King of Europe, President of Tusk. After all, we know that, and today we talk about it, as Members of the Civic Platform say, it is a little hypocritical because we know who contributed to it. But we're taking action. Since 1 February, we know that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has decided that the fertiliser is exempt from VAT and that the second decision made by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has come to the European Union Commission to give its consent to support farmers. And here's a request to your friends from the Platform and from the PSL to help us with that. You have your colleagues there who rule the European Union, who have a lot to say, help this Polish farmer, and not just go out and criticize, because that's not the point. Together we can help the Polish farmer, like the Commission of the European Union He's just gonna help us do it. There was also a case of a relief bill here, a long-term bill, and it's called a lot of things. The Minister has explained a lot about what's in this bill. Of course, this law is very much needed and we are working on it, and we are looking for a solution to help farmers who have been in debt have been left with debt. I'm sure that's the solution, we'll find it, because we know that it's very important to help these farmers. For the Government of the United Right Poland's agriculture is very important and we take such measures to help Polish farmers and we have often proved it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u110	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 5 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. Members of Marek Polak and Zbigniew Chmielowiec will ask about improving road safety. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, and the Minister of State will be represented by Minister Maciej Wąsik in the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u111	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The mortality rate on Polish roads despite the slow downward trend is still one of the largest in the European Union. Therefore, in order to improve safety from the first day of the new year in our country, a new taxi driver began to apply, increasing the amount of fines and penalty points for road traffic offences. It is also worth mentioning that the penalties for such offences have been constant for more than 20 years. The entry into force of the new rates allows the police to impose a fine of up to 5 000 on the perpetrator of the offence. zł, and the courts can fine the driver with a fine of up to 30,000. zł. I know that it has only been a few dozen days since the beginning of the year, but I would like to ask if, in this short period of time, the impact of increased criminal mandates has been observed in reducing the number of road events and increasing the culture of driving and seeing the limitation of speed and extortion which, as you know, are the main causes of unfortunate road accidents and accidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u112	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to Minister Moustache.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u113	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Before I answer this question in detail, in figures, I would like to stress that last year, when the Sejm adopted a law allowing the issue of a new tariff broker, it brought a reduction in the number of road accidents with a fatal effect of almost 10%. It happened, among other things. by changing the rules, but also by improving the quality of roads, we have no doubt about this, about major road investments, but also, of course, about police activities, reliable, regular checks. We are talking about a 10-percent drop in fatal accidents, 254 people have been reduced in deaths of these accidents. The number of road accidents with fatal outcome at pedestrian crossings has also decreased significantly, as have the number of fatalities. In 2020 we registered 210 fatal accidents at pedestrian crossings, while in 2021 there were only 154 accidents. As you pointed out, this year we have first of all increased the fine to 30,000. zł for traffic offences. The courts may fine those perpetrators who have not accepted a criminal mandate, or those for whom the police or the reviewers have found that they deserve a higher fine than provided for by the taxi driver. We have also introduced an institution of redecision for the perpetrators of selected offences who have committed them again within 2 years from the date of final punishment for the same infringement. This recidivism increases the fine by 100% ,just up to 5,000. zł. We have given the control authorities an effective tool to identify the persons entrusted with the vehicles who have violated the traffic regulations. Currently, for failing to indicate to the authority who was entrusted with the vehicle, the owner may be punished with a mandate of up to 8 000. zł. We have increased in the selected categories of traffic safety offences the amounts in which officers will be able to impose mandates, i.e. the amount of fines up to 5 000 zł, and in the event of a misdemeanor - up to 6,000. zł. As a result, as the honourable Member has pointed out, we have changed the taxi driver, which has not been changed in a long time, these penalties have been abnormally low. High Izbo! The latest police data from January show the reality and effectiveness of these actions. Based on preliminary data by 24 January 2022, there is a decrease in the number of road traffic violations revealed by police officers while increasing the number of traffic control activities carried out by road police officers - i.e. we have more checks and fewer events, which is as positive as possible - and gross speed overruns, i.e. by more than 50 km/h in the built-in area. We see a 55% reduction in this number compared to a comparable period last year. It's up to 55%. less road bandits who exceed 50 km/h in built-in areas. We also have 29.5%. less misdemeanors committed by pedestrians. We also have almost 27%. less offences of incorrect overtaking and 15% less offences not to give priority to another vehicle. There are also fewer offences committed by pedestrians, i.e. 12%. The number of collisions decreased almost 10% compared to last year, when this 10% decrease has already been recorded. As regards the number of events occurring during the period under consideration, it should be pointed out that by 5% compared to last year, when this decrease was 10%, or by the next almost 5%, the number of deaths decreased. We monitor this situation very closely. I actually get weekly reports. We're seeing the effect of a new taxi driver. We have increased police controls in case of road safety. In my opinion, anyone who drives a car, especially in a built-up area, already sees this tendency of drivers to take their foot off the gas. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For now, we are very positive about the changes that have been made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u114	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Polek.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u115	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! The current opinions of drivers and current observations clearly indicate that an increase in the parking tickets will improve safety and the level of driving culture, and very well, because that was the case. However, road safety is also affected by the training of drivers, the quality of road infrastructure and the number of police controls or other devices revealing offences. Please tell us if any changes are planned in this respect, especially as regards increased monitoring and detection of traffic offences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u116	Thank you. Again, we ask Minister Moustache.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I would like to remind you that, thanks to the work of the High House, Parliament has adopted a law modernising the uniformed services of the MSWiA. This is another milestone in the development of our services, including in the case of road safety. The Act provides for an increase of almost 6 000. Preemptive police posts. We're thinking of new stations and rebuilding 250 stations in small towns. We're talking about increasing prevention forces. We are talking generally about increasing road safety. In his exposé, Prime Minister Morawiecki said that one of the government's priorities would be to improve road safety in various ways: by improving infrastructure, by strengthening the police and by amending legislation. This program is being implemented. As you can see, this program gives results, as you can see in statistics. Of course, we will keep the High House up to date with all the developments that occur in road traffic. I would like to stress that these phenomena that we observed last year and this year are very positive. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u118	Thank you very much, Minister. Barbara Bartus will be asking about local governments and how to raise funds from EU funds. Mr Grzegorz Puda, Minister of Funds and Regional Policy, will answer this question. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u119	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Strengthening and promoting cooperation and exchange of experience and knowledge between cities is the goal of the next edition of the Town Partnership Initiative for the years 2021 to 2023. It is a project by the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, which aims to activate cities to take development action. The law and justice, the government and we all care very much about helping local governments, which concerns the content of our question, which you have read to the marshal, how we help local governments. Yes, Law and Justice are very much concerned, because self-government units are those places where they care about the basic needs of residents where they can, among others. Thanks to government support, help make the residents more comfortable. At the end of November 2021, a conference was held as part of another project, a project of the Advisory Support Centre. Dear Minister, how does the Ministry intend to strengthen local authorities? This is because it is not only real investment, which in my speech has already sounded, as well as resources flowing to local governments and the state budget, and from EU funds, but also about - and above all, I want to ask - the support of local authorities in preparing the necessary documentation for obtaining funds from the European Union. Very many municipalities do not have sufficient capacity to prepare strategies, plans, investment projects, and without this it is difficult to apply for funds. So in the next perspective that we have before us, will the Ministry help local governments in this (The Bell) so that they can apply for these measures as best as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u120	Thank you very much. I ask you, Minister Grzegorz Puda, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u121	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Madam President, of course, as part of our department's activities, we really attach great importance to strengthening the institutional capacity of individual local authorities. We know that this is a very important factor, which very often determines whether we can plan well what we want to do, what the local governments want to do, and what we want to provide to the Polish people within a given local government. For many years, the Ministry has initiated and co-ordinated activities which are linked to the promotion of improving the competences of local staff, as well as for example. an analysis base on many different aspects of territorial development, spatial monitoring, as well as monitoring the socio-economic situation in the region in the framework of development policies. It is particularly important to support the building of certain competences in areas that cannot fully benefit from their potential, cannot fully develop or lose their socio-economic functions. These are primarily areas that are at risk of permanent marginalisation, and they include medium-sized cities that lose their socio-economic functions. As an example, we can point out what she was talking about and what she was asking you, the Advisory Support Centre. The programme is implemented in the form of pilot support in partnership in 15 voivodships. The aim of the project is primarily to strengthen the capacity of local authorities and the scope of strategic and project planning, including, of course, building their capacity to use different types of territorial instruments. From the perspective of our ministry, it is also important to strengthen the role of the territorial approach in shaping and implementing development policies in functional areas or to promote the partnership model in seeking solutions to common problems. It is also very important to see common potentials, common problems and everything that can be combined within our resources, and to take advantage of the experience of the partners in these development programmes. One of the next projects worth mentioning at this point is also a strategic project carried out in the Ministry, which aims to support local authorities, Mon. Partner City Initiative. The project aims to increase the knowledge of urban workers and acquire their ability to cooperate with many different stakeholders in the process of searching for or identifying local challenges and creating an appropriate, optimal method to solve local problems. Of course, this project is based on the exchange of knowledge between cities or other entities that are covered by this programme. Significant support is also provided by the EEA Financial Mechanism and the Norwegian Financial Mechanism, which currently implements the Local Development Programme. It should be noted that the cities that participate in the programme have had a unique opportunity at each stage of the competition to be a beneficiary of the intensive advisory and training activity that is organised within the framework of the project we are talking about. As a result, local authorities were able not only to effectively develop design documentation in the competition, but also to prepare themselves in substance for a wider, more skilled, more targeted acquisition and use of other external resources, including of course European ones. Thank you very much, Commissioner, for asking this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u122	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Barbara Bartus will also ask the second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u123	Thank you very much. It is I who thank the Minister for his response, for bringing forward projects for local governments and together with local authorities. On the other hand, I have an additional question. Minister, are you working at the Ministry on solutions that will help to improve the development situation of local governments in a sustainable manner? Are these ad hoc measures, or can we count on you to work to help local governments permanently? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u124	Thank you very much, Member. And once again, Minister Puda will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We see, of course, that the importance of local government and cooperation is increasing, especially in these difficult times, in times of crisis. The consequences of the pandemic have shown the importance of its role in creating safe and more effective living and working conditions for local communities. The current situation - the one we have right now - requires attention to the municipalities and districts. This is an important challenge, because we all have the heart to show, in cooperation, how to better absorb financial resources, especially where municipalities are less capable of dealing with crisis situations, they do not have the opportunity to use these funds, or for example. they have less resilience and are slowly rebuilding their economies. Within the framework of regional policy, we place great emphasis on social and territorial sustainability by reducing disparities between regions that have so far had a lot of support and regions which are more difficult and have less opportunities. We want to make them more prosperous, among others. by raising budget resources or external resources, including of course European funds. In particular, we focus on supporting areas that can fully develop their potential, but have not yet had such opportunities. We're talking about the so-called. strategic intervention areas. We anticipate their dedicated actions at national level, which is very important and, of course, at regional level. We also want to support local authorities, which are in a weaker state of development, not only by providing them with the opportunity to participate in projects which are carried out on the initiative of the Ministry, but also a little more systematically, by supporting them in the long term. The Development Policy Law has created a new legal basis for cooperation between municipalities in the form of a trans-local strategy. It is a tool for the implementation of development policy for local groups of local self-government units that are neighbouring, which combine economic relations or otherwise cooperate with each other. The aim is for them to be able to achieve common development goals more quickly. This trans-local development strategy is a tool that local authorities can use in the ongoing implementation of their development policy. In order to support these local authorities in joint planning for the development and implementation of system solutions, we have developed a manual that will enable them to better prepare a trans-local strategy. The aspect of strengthening cooperation between local authorities is also strongly underlined in the draft of the new National Urban Policy 2030. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u126	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question will be asked by Ms Krystyna Szumilas and Mr Marek Sowa, who will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science, Minister Tomasz Romankowski. The question will be about the failure of Mrs Barbara Nowak, a Małopolska curator of education, and the transmission of untested information hitting legal NGOs in Poland. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I have the pleasure of doing business for the next few hours. Please ask Ms Krystyna Shumilas a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Małopolska curator of the education of Mrs Barbara Nowak in a famous radio interview compromised herself, not only about vaccines, that it was an experiment, but also accusing schools and NGOs. She said that 800 cases reported in more than 400 organizations did not receive parental permission to conduct school classes. This is a serious accusation that undermines the rule of law of schools and legally operating organizations in Poland. However, as a result of the inspection, it turned out that your probation officer made these accusations on the basis of the Ordo Iuris report and the Parents Protect Children Foundation. She got acquainted with the report, but she didn't order checks on the cases mentioned in it, didn't check whether such events really took place. On the question of why, she replied that Ordo Iuris believed. A public official cannot base his action on faith. Its duty is to check honestly all applications concerning minors of children and young people, otherwise it is to harm children and young people. This case has one more aspect. The curator, who officially sent a list of those accused of violating the law of the organization, noted with her comment that they were organisations that, under the pretense of conducting educational activities, implement a strategy for the gradual destruction of social standards on which marriage and family are based. These accusations she dropped, not checking, based on Ordo Iuris's report. There is a suspicion that these organizations will not be admitted to school after the entry into force of the lex Czarnek Act. We can already see that the Foundation, which is on the list, gives the Children Power (the bell), leading the phone of trust, did not receive funding from the state budget. These statements make NGOs less likely to operate on the market. You're accusing them unjustly. When and what will you draw, Minister, conclusions, consequences for your parole officer Nowak? When's your parole officer Nowak gonna stop being a parole officer? When you apologize to those organizations and schools that your parole officer Nowak's got a false charge? Here, Minister, there's a list and your parole officer's handwriting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u128	Thank you very much, Member. Minister, you're welcome to the podium. I know you, and I know that you will answer brilliant questions as brilliantly as you did your Member. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u129	Dear Marshal, I hope I can satisfy you and meet your expectations, because the answer will indeed be very short. I hope so too, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Unfortunately, there is no elementary logic in the statement by the Member. The list presented is not an official document. Many times - and in social media, and also in information for our ministry - Małopolska curator clearly stated that she never made a list of entities that should not have contact with students. Then your question is completely unfounded. I hope, Marshal, that your marshal's expectations have been met. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u130	You know, I don't want to judge that, but as far as mine's concerned, not really. On the other hand, I am not interfering with content, I am conducting deliberations. An additional question will be asked by Marek Owa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! Minister! That's not true what you said. This list really exists, it was handed over to us in official documents by curator Nowak. I took it from her personally, and I'll give you that list right away. These documents are sold by her and therefore are official documents of government administration. This is a list of organizations, here a quote, which under the pretense of conducting educational activities implement a strategy of gradual destruction of social norms on which marriage and family are based. The information collected reveals the activities of these organizations and defines them as intended sexuality under the pretenses of education. Their activities are conducted in contradiction with Polish law. Among these organizations is the Foundation of Jan Karski, Association of never More, Association of Roma in Poland, Jewish Center in Oświęcim and many, many others. What do you have against their activities? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it wrong to oppose all forms of xenophobia and discrimination? What's wrong with being like Karski? Or are you disturbed by identity activities such as in Auschwitz, where the Jewish Center and the Roma Association act to preserve the memory of our city, its history and heritage? Is their activity really contrary to Polish law? And a sad reflection at the end. A few weeks ago Minister Niedzielski told me about your parole officer Nowak that he was a person with signs of insanity. I also noticed the symptoms of fanaticism, homophobia and discrimination. When's your parole officer's resignation, Minister? Thank you very much, sir. Minister, please come again kindly. Minister, here is a set of documents from curator Nowak with a guide letter on the company paper of a Małopolska curator. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Okay, can you show me? Yes. [[Voice from the courtroom: But get off this podium. Mask...]] Annex 2. Annex 2... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Mr. Marshal, this is not the right form for us to... Minister, I quote: Annex 2, which I attach to this letter. There's a list of organizations that ran... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Excuse me, can I, Marshal? ...class without parents knowing. This is the information processed by the probation officer fully, completely. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u132	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u133	Mr. Marshal, maybe it's the protocol that needs to be included. 'Cause I'm not leaving it. You're the one who left it. [[You're denouncing this list, but she is.]] Minister, you know what I always do... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: I don't know. If someone leaves something on their desktop, I understand it's attached to the protocol. If you don't know, ask the marshal. Sir, I have a proposition for you. It was given to you. If you'd like to... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: But I understand that this protocol will be included... Sir, there's every word in the record. If you wish to accept this, please, if not, hand it over to the Member. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: But, Marshal, you're in session. You have, sir... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: I would like to ask you if the minutes of the minutes need the documents referred to by the Member who has passed the time. Sir, you're not... You're not in session, you're not in the department, you're our guest. The speaker is yours, please. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: I'm here because I'm an envoy, Mr. Marshal. Sir, could I... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Here impudence really is not indicated in the case of the person holding the meeting. You don't follow the clock. The Member has exceeded his time, he has done happiness. I wanted to ask you what happened to those documents, Mr. Marshal. May I have the documents relating to the disfellowshipping? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: I wanted to ask you, Marshal, what do you want me to do about it? Sir, Minister, I kindly inform you... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: So you can take it for yourself, right? [[No, it's an official government document.]] Take it? Sir, for once... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Mr. Marshal, may I answer the question, do you deny an answer? Sir, once again, you will not provoke me because I am a Marshal of the Seym and I am smiling at you very strongly. Minister, I am addressing you with a very kind and polite request that you speak. You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Thank you very much, Marshal, for finally allowing me to speak. I repeat what I said in the first part of the answer. The document you are referring to is not a State document. We as ministry and I personally do not exclude any organization which operates under Polish law, in accordance with Polish law. Any organisation which is registered in a court or in a register of associations kept by a competent authority shall act under Polish law, in accordance with the law. Any analysis prepared by NGOs is an analysis of NGOs. [[Małopolska curator...]] And these documents, please... I can take it. Thank you very much for another copy of the documents I now have. [[Analyze them, Minister, and dismiss curator Nowak.]] And thank you very much to the marshal for telling me intelligently. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u134	Minister, you know, I've been in session for two years. I'm giving the floor... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Too long.]] Thank you very much. I've been running them for two years, so I'm really not gonna get provoked because I have to be objective, just like all marshals. The papers are for you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Your attitude is in a clear extreme to objectivity. This is where we've watched it many times.]] Sir, but he really doesn't have to... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Don't pretend to be a dove of peace, Marshal, really. Even today's speech shows your extreme commitment.]] Good. Thank you for your assessment. So I kindly inform you that these documents that you have submitted to you are yours. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Thank you very much, Marshal.]] Thank you very much, sir. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Have a nice day.]] Thank you very much. I'm still talking to you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Happy Birthday.]] No, listen to me. I'm talking to you. All right. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. This question is about improving the Polish Load program, improving the situation of people with disabilities and their families and relieving independent parents in the context of the lack of possibility of joint settlement with children. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, on whose behalf the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, Minister Jan Sarnowski, and the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Minister Paweł Wdzik, will answer. This question will be asked by Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska and Mrs Katarzyna Kotula. Please take the floor of Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u135	Thank you, Marshal. I have a question for the finance minister Tadeusz Kościński about why he reaches into the pockets of independent parents, especially single mothers, because it is mainly women who raise children themselves in Poland, 95% Such parents are women. You reach into the pockets of those who are the hardest anyway. You've taken the opportunity to account for single parents and children together. Those who still have increased expenses because they have to keep themselves and their children, and often even more children, have this opportunity taken away, will therefore suffer losses. NGOs estimate that this is about PLN 300 a month less in the wallet of such a family - a family that you simply do not like. You don't like the fact that there are single parents and that there are children living in such families. You want social engineering, I don't know, to force these women to marry someone? Is that what this is supposed to lead to? You don't help those who deserve this help, which, like I said, is just harder in life, and you're preying on kids, you're preying on single mothers. This is not the first time that the Polish government is using, attacking Polish women. We have had examples of this in the case of both the rules on the right to terminate pregnancy and the announcements of termination of the Istanbul Convention. Now, when it comes to the financial consequences of pressing women, you want to get revenge on Polish women in some way, you want to make life difficult for them, you want to take their money. This is disgraceful, this is hurting (the bell) and I urge you to amend these regulations, accept the amendments of the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u136	Thank you very much. We'll respond via Internet. I would very much ask you to connect with one of the ministers. Oh, hello, Minister. You're welcome, Minister, to answer the question. [[The statement of the Undersecretary of State is displayed on the screens]] [[Of course.]] [[Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The preference in the form of joint settlement of a single parent raising a child with a child was not abolished, it was simply replaced by a new tax deduction of PLN 1500. This is a relief that adds up to the previous relief for children and, what's important, this is the amount that is higher than the average benefit from the joint settlement of a single parent with a child, which last year amounted to PLN 1154. Let me repeat: PLN 1154 - the average benefit from the joint settlement of a single parent with a child, the value of the relief - PLN 1500. What's the effect? The result is that the change will benefit, i.e. their situation will improve, single parents earning up to about PLN 9130 gross per month, which is well above the national average.]] [[This is a solution already in place in the framework of the changes that entered into force in January this year, while in the Ministry of Finance we are working on further solutions that will improve the situation, including tax, parents who raise children alone.]] [[Firstly, we want a single parent to also be able to receive the amount of unused relief, or PLN 1500, in case there is nothing to deduct from it if the tax was too low due to the application of a high tax-free amount, so that the same principle as it now functions in the case of a normal child-free payment. The unused part is simply returned in cash.]] [[Secondly, single parents will also include the regulation, which was announced by Prime Minister Morawiecki, in terms of annual accounts, so that no single parent loses on tax changes of the Polish Order, so that they are positive or neutral for him, to the level of 12 800 PLN of gross average monthly earnings.]] [[On these two additional elements, the legislation will be presented to the High House in the coming weeks. They are being developed at the Ministry of Finance and should be completed soon. I would like to remind you that these are solutions that single parents will still be able to benefit from at the annual settlement stage, because at the advance stage their situation is normalized as a result of a regulation that entered into force on 7 January. So that at the advance stage there is no loss in the case of their salary. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Minister. The question is whether Minister Paweł Wdówik will be connected. [[If not, the question will be to the Ministry of Finance.]] But we wait, we wait.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u137	I'm connected. You are, Minister, aren't you? We don't see you, and we'd love to see you. Okay, wait a minute. Minister, we have such a situation... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Paweł Wdewik: My camera's on. You can't be seen, but you can be heard. Therefore, I ask you to speak instead of you... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Paweł Wdewik: I don't see you either. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But, madam, you're gonna answer the Minister, and then there's gonna be an extra question, okay? We have two ministers, so the first question tabled by Mrs Żukowska will be answered by two ministers, then you will have an additional question and we will ask the ministers again. Time is yours, Minister. There you go. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Paweł Wdewik: [[The State Secretary's statement is displayed on videos]] Dear Marshal, High Izbo! According to the current legislation, the employer of the sheltered work facility is obliged to set up an occupational rehabilitation fund for disabled persons, while in the establishment of professional activities there is an occupational activity fund, ZFA. [[About single parents, Minister.]] Both ZFRON and ZFA are created from funds derived from part of advance payments for personal income tax. As a result of the entry into force of the rules increasing the tax-free amount for all taxpayers from the beginning of 2022 to 30 000. zł There will be a situation in which advances on income tax will decrease and result in This will significantly reduce the impact on ZFRON and ZFA. Salary income tax advances account for 80% at the moment the funds of this fund. Minister, I'm so sorry. I'm absolutely not interfering with what you're saying, but I don't know if you've heard the question because it was about people raising children alone. [[But I wanted to ask, but I haven't asked yet.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Paweł Wdewik: Oh, no. Also the situation of people with disabilities, so I answer... But that second question has not yet been asked. I understand you're anticipating. There you go, no, no... I just want to tell you that there hasn't been such a question for now. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Paweł Wdewik: Okay, good. I'm the one who can hold off. [[But I want to ask that question.]] But no, just tell me when you started, maybe that's the question... You know, we're gonna have to sort things out. So let's do this: the question that you're answering right now... Let's make this a question, it'll be a better one. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Paweł Wdewik: Okay, then I'll answer. I'll ask you then and you'll have time to answer, okay? Can we go out like this? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Paweł Wdewik: Sure.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u138	Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kotula will ask the question and there will be no more awkwardness.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! As a result of this technical confusion, I request a little extension of this minute. I'm very happy that Minister Wdelik is with us. Minister, I have two questions. After the introduction of the Polish Deal and the chaos that we have observed from the beginning, we can see clearly that it divided families for better and worse. For families of many children there are many proposals, there is exemption from PIT, payment for crèches and support as part of the Family Care Capital. And that's good, we absolutely approve of these changes. Unfortunately, we have the impression that families of people with disabilities and their carers have simply been overlooked, that above all they will lose on the introduction of the Polish Order. I'd like to ask the Minister, it was a question to the Ministry of Finance, but if there's no... Minister Wdewik is obviously in touch and will also be able to answer this question, because he certainly has this knowledge about the lack of the possibility for people with disabilities to benefit from rehabilitation relief, which achieves lower income, so they will not exceed the threshold of the tax-free amount. This relief, however, is a huge facilitation for a large group (the Bell) of people who cannot afford to finance fully with their own means of treatment or the person they are caring for. I want to ask you if Minister Wdezik knows if the Ministry of Finance is planning compensatory mechanisms, if so, which mechanisms. I also want to ask you about the 1% contributions that people with disabilities receive. We know that they can be much lower. And I am addressing the question to Minister Widzik: Does Minister Widzik know what is the estimated decrease in revenue from 1% for the public benefit organisation? Although that's probably a question for the Ministry of Finance. Are there any mechanisms in place to compensate for these losses? We also know that there is a proposal for the environment of people with disabilities to make this 1% increase to 1.2%. There's also a petition on this, so I want to ask you what the ministry's position is. Today we have the impression that there is no implementation of the judgment of a tribunal equal to the provision of carers for children and adults with disabilities. No, no support from the Solidarity Fund, no life support, no assistants, no respite, no statutory care, no priority in doctors and available medicines. Now we have the impression that Polish Load will take away even more of this environment of people with disabilities and their carers. I'm asking you to answer these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u140	Thank you very much. Minister - I am speaking to Minister Paul Widecki - please kindly, you have as much time as you think. All the questions have already been asked, so let's get back to you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Miss Fellow! I am very grateful and I appreciate your commitment to the subject of people with disabilities and the fight for their situation. Maybe I'll finish the story I started. One of the most reported ailments - of course we can document the number of contacts with the proxy office - was the issue of people working on the protected market and we solve it in such a way that we create a fund from the state rehabilitation fund, complement the company's rehabilitation fund for people with disabilities and an occupational activity fund in such a way that 4% the lowest salary of any person employed in this fund may be paid. The employer himself will decide whether he chooses this new form of support or if he stays with the previous one, because in connection with the regulation of the Minister of Finance of 7 January it may turn out that this previous form will be equally beneficial to him. This is a solution that concerns about 112 thousand. persons who may benefit from this fund. As far as rehabilitation relief is concerned, we need to be clear that nothing will change this year. 1% It's countdown, so we're working really hard on the solution. I know what the problem is. The point is that many people won't just get in the hands of cash, which always appeared between March and June and which was a specific support in different situations for this group of people. I would like to point out that since 2018 this relief has been extended to all persons with disabilities. We're working on a compensation mechanism right now. It is clear to me that it must rise. Because that's the thing that's gonna happen next year, I'm gonna say we need a few more days or weeks to work it out. As for 1%, however, I will ask Minister Sarnowski to refer to it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let me just add that I cannot agree with the allegation that assistance in the form of personal assistance and care is not working. The amount that we have transferred this year amounts to almost PLN 800 million in total for all these purposes. This is much more than ever, even last year. The fact that we are now operating on the basis of the program is a consequence of the test phase. Of course, work on legislative solutions is ongoing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u142	Thank you very much, Minister. I kindly ask Minister Jan Sarnowski to speak. Come in, Minister. [[The statement of the Undersecretary of State is displayed on the screens]] [[Thank you very much.]] [[Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As far as 1% of the tax passed on to public benefit organisations is concerned, I would like to emphasise that this year these funds will reach them and will be even higher than last year. Now we are dealing with measures that will emerge as a result of the settlement of 2021. This is over PLN 1 billion. These measures in the framework of this year's income tax settlement will go to a public benefit organisation.]] [[The Ministry of Finance is currently working on the implementation of the compensation mechanism, i.e. the mechanism that will secure the same - or even higher - level of funding next year, so that the amount of funds does not decrease. As for the tool to be used, it will be presented in the coming weeks. So it's hard to determine whether it's going to be an increase of 1% or some other tool.]] [[As far as rehabilitation relief is concerned, here we are really dealing with two issues. Firstly, the rehabilitation allowance for personal income tax has not been abolished. Those earning lower income, who simply stop paying income tax, will not benefit from it, but only because they simply will not pay tax. The same effect in the form of no tax burden will be much simpler, as they will not have to prove any expenditure, but simply as a result of an increase in the tax-free amount, their tax-related burden will decrease significantly. On the other hand, the situation of people who had to write off this kind of expenditure this year has improved significantly as a result of tax changes of the Polish Deal. First of all, because the catalog of rehabilitation expenditures has been significantly expanded, which may be subject to rehabilitation relief. This is a dozen or so new types of expenditure, both for the disabled and for those who take care of it and on whom it remains. For the first time, rehabilitation relief can be applied for expenditure such as: paid travel by means of transport for a disabled person and for persons who take care of him, pay for rehabilitation or rehabilitation treatments, pay for the stay of not only a disabled person, but also for his or her carer on a rehabilitation tournament, in a health care establishment or in a medical rehabilitation centre.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[So that in terms of rehabilitation relief, we are dealing with a significant, significant extension of its scope, not with a reduction of it. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much to the ministers. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Let's move on to the next question. Members Jan Łopata and Andrzej Grzyb will ask a question addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers on the National Plan for Reconstruction. Under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy will answer this question, Mr Waldemar Puda. First, I will ask Mr John Łopa for the first question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u143	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! For starters, maybe a quote. It reads: Thanks to the negotiating success of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in July 2020, we won the biggest money in the history of the European Union for our country, about PLN 770 billion. The multiannual financial framework 20212027 and the temporary and exceptional appropriations of the Fund for Reconstruction, in total over EUR 1.8 trillion. It's impressive. There's no doubt about it. Only that this is an official theory, and the question immediately arises: How much money, budget resources, public funds for this advertisement have been allocated? But above all, we are interested in the National Reconstruction Plan today. On 3 January, the European Commission spokesperson said that talks with the Polish authorities on the National Reconstruction Plan are still ongoing. So the question is: What are the results of these conversations? Who's in charge of the conversation? What does the Polish government do? The immediate result of the prolonged approval procedure of the National Reconstruction Plan is delays in launching competition procedures, anxiety in local governments, which must or will have to look for other sources of funding. Let us remind you that under the Instrument for Reconstruction and Resistance, Poland will have at its disposal EUR 58.1 billion, including EUR 23 billion in grants, EUR 34.2 billion in loans. We have been waiting for the approval of the National Reconstruction Plan since May 2021. Polish citizens are suffering tangible losses because approval of KPOs in 2021 would allow payment (Bingle) 4,7 A billion advances. These are measurable losses when we didn't get the money because there's no plan. The questions are: When will this program be accepted? When will the money be mobilised from the National Reconstruction Plan? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u144	Thank you. Minister, I ask the Minister to speak. You're welcome, Minister. Good morning.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Speaker! That's a very good question. I almost every day look for answers to this question in different environments and I have to say that it is a perfect question, only Parliament not this one. If we ask this question in the European Parliament, I think, it would be a much more appropriate place for what we are dealing with today. I mean, the decision on this is on the European Commission's side. The European Parliament is also the body that oversees the action of the European Commission on the basis of the Treaties. If I may, please, redirect this question also to the parliamentarians of your group, so that they really seek these measures. Because so far what we are seeing from the point of view of European parliamentarians, unfortunately also your colleagues in the European Parliament, does not bring us closer to success. I would not like to quote here, I have written your speeches in the European Parliament, these supposedly encouraging the approval of KPOs. If I had recounted it, it would have been entirely different from what I said. But I don't want to mess around here anymore. If it were up to us, of course, this decision would have been a long time ago. The fact is, on July 12th, the technical approval of the National Reconstruction Plan took place and what we did on our side. Today, on the other hand, we have a situation in which the European Commission is left behind in the regulation, which it has given a positive opinion on itself, i.e. it has taken on its own a 2-month commitment to approve the deadline. We have also extended this deadline by 4 weeks. So the deadline was August 3rd. Today, I am not going to say that the Hungarian party who is suing the Court of Justice of the European Union on the Commission's inaction in this matter is not right. We are looking at this activity and we are wondering, because the exact same situation also applies to Hungary. So if I could ask, for example, the head of the European People's Party, the leader of the largest group in the European Parliament, your colleagues in the European Parliament, because this is an appropriate forum for discussion on this subject. We, of course, talk to the Commission every week. We had a representation in Poland on Monday, a representative of the Commission, and we also discussed this in the Ministry of Funds. However, the issue is purely ideological and political and the decision to unblock is entirely political. We are doing everything we can to ensure that everyone who can help in this matter... to signal that such action by the European Commission is in principle breaking down the Commission's solidarity. Let us add to this the fact that we have a lot of circumstances which indicate that all these horizontal discussions that are taking place within the European Union should be secondary in the current situation. Today we have a conflict on our eastern border. Today we have a pandemic at the top of the fifth wave. These are measures to rebuild the economy after the pandemic. There's no politics here. We don't want any politics here. We do not want to resolve the future of the European Union in the National Plan for Reconstruction. That is why there is a broad discussion in Parliament, and that is what the European Council is, which should resolve these issues at the summit of the leaders of the countries, give certain directions, and that is what the President of Parliament, the President of the Commission, is. But not with regard to the Fund for Reconstruction and the resources to rebuild the economy. I must assure you that these funds will go to Poland. We didn't take any step to point out that we're giving them up or that they're not gonna be there. We're getting ready. We put in place a system of implementation, we prepare, we audit the individuals who will implement these measures. We're on schedule. Of course, we would like these investments planned for 2022 to start. We have a plan B, which is that we're going to start the investments that are planned for 2022, and we're not going to look forward to these measures, but they will eventually hit and compensate for the expenses we had planned for 2022. So I encourage everyone to support this process to make it clear The Commission that there is no legal option, first of all legal, that any Member State should not transfer funds, because it breaks down the whole domino of funding for funds that would eventually have to be covered either by a higher contribution or by what we have deritized in this Parliament... With regard to this concern, it is better late than never, because I remember (the bell) your vote on this matter, it was not in your case favourable to the recovery plan. However, this Council Decision is based on an increased contribution or additional own resources. Therefore, there can be no increase in the contribution in a situation where one Member State does not participate in this fund. So everyone is aware that this is a domino that would fall apart in a situation in which one of the countries would not have received this fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u146	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to ask Mr Andrzej Grzyb to speak, the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition of Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u147	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! In fact, there is a dispute between us about the National Reconstruction Plan, but it is not about the Fund for Reconstruction. Since the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland voted in favour and even appealed to Prime Minister Morawiecki that since Solidarna Polska does not want to vote for this, we will support this programme. And that's what happened. [[Applause]] On the other hand, I have repeatedly asked you to present the assumptions, the draft and the ready recovery plan that has been sent to the European Commission. Unfortunately, the Polish Parliament was omitted, and you sent us back to the press conference. And I think it was a mistake. Here the government could really get very far-reaching support. Now you are sending us back to the European Parliament. But the bodies, the institutions that are responsible for approving this plan are the European Commission and the Council of the European Union's finance ministers. They're the ones approving this program. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I think that's where you have to find the answer. Especially since Mr Morawiecki, also in this House and also after the European Council, said: Yes, we know what the coast conditions are. We are ready to change the Disciplinary Chamber. This was also done by the President of Law and Justice and the Head of the United Right. It's too bad it's happening. I would like to help the government in this matter, because, ladies and gentlemen, e.g. Germany received 2.3 billion advances, Greece - 4 and Italy 25, right? Mr President, we are just finishing up slowly. We have received nothing, but we are currently benefiting from the increased amounts of bonds issued that raise our costs. And even this loan or the loan for reconstruction would be much cheaper. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u148	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. I invite Minister Waldemar Buda. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u149	Mr. Speaker! I sincerely appreciate your concern that these funds should be sent to Poland. And I absolutely do not take away those intentions from you. You are talking about Germany, this is an excellent example. Their National Reconstruction Plan was approved at the time when their Federal Court issued a judgment which questioned the superiority of European law over German law. This did not interfere in any way with the approval of the National Reconstruction Plan. No one even in the discussion about the German National Reconstruction Plan raised this. On the other hand, we will not allow ourselves, on the occasion of the Fund for Reconstruction, to decide whether or not to negotiate, or to force any negotiation or concessions in other matters. Let's negotiate, but this is another table. As for the Disciplinary Chamber, of course we have announced this and the words of our leaders are as valid as possible. This is a rather discreet discussion within the United Rights environment and this process is progressing. On the other hand, it is not because of the judgment or expectations of the European Commission in this case, but because we have come to such conclusions in terms of the functioning of the justice system. And of course we will, and that's where we're headed. So we cannot afford this as a Polish state. I hope you support us in this. We cannot be blackmailed that in any case where the Commission is arbitrary in deciding whether to negotiate or make concessions on other matters. We cannot agree to such a discussion. As partners sit in a sub-table when discussing this or another matter, they should settle it regardless of what disputes we have and what discussions we are having within the European Union on other matters. If anyone wants to combine these matters, it is outside of the Treaty law, and in particular outside the Regulation concerning the Fund for Reconstruction. And we, in principle, cannot agree to such a discussion. Because that would lead to a situation where, in any discussion that will be undertaken arbitraryly by the committee, we will have a Fit for 55 package on the table or other things that we cannot agree to. And if we make any breach, it will be clear that this is how Poland will be treated. We should not afford this, and I think that treating us, in line with the example of the Member, like Germany, would be absolutely sufficient for us to operate within the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u150	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Let's move on to the next question. And this question will be asked by Marek Hok and Rajmund Miller from the Parliamentary Club Civil Coalition. It will address the strategy against COVID-19. This question will be addressed to the Minister of Health, the Secretary of State, and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health will answer Minister Waldemar Kraska. I will also immediately be the Minister, at every opportunity I do, asking for information about the percentage of people vaccinated and not vaccinated who died because you are always very good at informing about this case, i.e. It's true. Besides, it's sad information. All right, I invite Mr Rajmund Miller. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! 100,000. Poles died this year because of COVID. The other 100,000. These are deaths caused by people who should get to the hospital, e.g. Cancer patients, cardiologically ill, didn't get in at the time they had to, and they died. All we hear are the announcements from the Ministry of Health that something will be done. I am sorry to say that, according to what Mr Marshal has just said, the only thing we see is information about the number of infected and the number of deaths. Question: "Is this the Ministry of Health, or is this the Ministry of Death Statistics?" [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the last meeting in the Council of Ministers that was organized just to push everything against the opposition was a fiasco. The government didn't make any proposals there. For this reason, the announcement is that some new programmes will be presented. Because, of course, as far as the Hoca Act was concerned, which was very weak, but it contained some elements that we could accept, for political reasons and for the political calculation of this law, there is no more today. Minister! I have a question for you. You have committed that new materials will be submitted for the Ministry's efforts to prevent COVID, which we have not found anywhere. Did you put these materials together? Today, you reported that almost 60,000 were ill. People and Minister Niedzielski announce that you will need 60,000. hospitals, and these hospitals are in a terrible financial situation, they won't have anyone to work for and they won't have a bed, they won't be able to accept. Minister! My question is, do beds heal? [[The bell, the applause.]] That's an important question. And I have one more question. I feel like you're saying this: we're standing over the abyss, and tomorrow we're going to take a step forward. I can sum up your actions anyway. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u152	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Waldemar Kraska to speak. Hello, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u153	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide the regret that I have listened to the words of the Member because we meet quite often at the meetings of the Committee on Health and there this voice may sound a little different, but this is politics. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, today we have quite a number of new cases of coronavirus infection. This is, of course, related to this new mutation, which is already beginning to displace the previous variant, i.e. the Delta variant. If we look at the statistics, because we also need to use them, the Omicron option over the last 14 days was 50%. all cases of disease, while if we look at the last week, i.e. the last 7 days, it was already 62% cases, which is already definitely beginning to dominate our population. And that is not true, sir, that we are merely providing statistics. We have a concrete plan, also a plan for the fifth wave, and you say we have nothing. On our website is a hanged battle strategy foreseen for the fifth wave, the winter-spring period 2022. You can argue with her, of course. To argue with her, but she is. As far as the fight against the fifth wave is concerned, we have focused on three basic aspects. Of course, vaccinations are still very important here, so we focus on constantly convincing Poles to immunize. We have a total of 57% vaccinated at the moment. citizens, but if we look at statistics that may not always satisfy you, and we skip a group of children up to the age of 5, which is this group that can't get vaccinated because there is no vaccine for her, we'd have 64% right now. vaccinated Poles over 5 years of age. So I'm sure it's more than that, but I also don't think we're fully satisfied with it yet. This will, of course, translate into how the Polish health care will be burdened with hospitalization. In the fifth wave strategy, we have also set the focus on increasing access to testing. As of today, the testing points have started in pharmacies, and for this moment we already have 105 active pharmacies. There were 64 of them this morning, 105 of them already. Over 5,000. pharmacists have been trained to perform tests. In the coming days, probably at the beginning of next week also at the points where the so-called swab was downloaded until now. PCR, for genetic testing in the lab, we'll be able to perform an antigen test without being tested. These points right now are 653 plus 145 away points. These are the next points where we can do these tests. We have also issued a regulation that requires family doctors to examine people over the age of 60 within 48 hours. Of course, at the Health Committee meeting it was also suggested that family doctors could not cope with this, that these patients were very much, that doctors had their patients in counseling. Ladies and gentlemen, this decision has been very carefully thought out, because a group of people over the age of 60 is about 15%. all infections. This is a group. also very well implanted for Polish conditions, because over 60 years of age we have 78% vaccinated in Poland citizens. But if we look at mortality, mortality, it's the people over the age of 60 who are 87%. all people who died of COVID-19 infection. That is why our decision went in this direction so that we could take even greater protection from those who, unfortunately, most often lose the fight against the coronavirus. Let's look at the statistics from today. Today, 7145 people over the age of 60 have been infected, and we have over 10,000. POZ points, i.e. de facto for one POZ, are less than one patient, which according to this requirement You need to see and examine yourself. So I hope that this will also affect the fact that these patients will be (the bell) much easier and faster to reach our hospitals. If we also look at the hospital infrastructure, the beds must be for patients who will require hospitalization, because unfortunately with the coronavirus the condition is very sudden. These are most often life-saving procedures, so the patient can't be sent back. We also increased the number of medical rescue teams. At the moment we have almost 1600 in Poland. On the fifth wave, we increase it by 164 teams. We have also increased the transport dimension of COVID, i.e. the transport of patients who need to be transported to our hospitals. We had 159 ambulances. We're increasing it by another 130. These are concrete actions, Mr President, and please do not say that we want to do something. We're doing it. We try to make sure that every patient who is infected with the coronavirus has help, but we also try to make room for patients with other diseases available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u154	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Mark Hok, please. Good morning. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The statistics and the beautiful strategies presented by the Minister are indeed impressive. There's a strategy to fight a pandemic in the fifth wave, but reality is different. Four hundred and sixty Poles have already been infected with the coronavirus in Poland. Over 104,000. He died. We're talking about facts that show up like this. We are the last country in the European Union in terms of the number of tests per million inhabitants. We are at 99th place in the world in terms of the number of tests per million inhabitants. You're proposing testing in pharmacies. That's the same reason the pharmacy doesn't do vaccinations because it's 13,000. pharmacies only came in about 1,000. pharmacies that didn't do those vaccinations anyway. Today, tests against COVID-19 are to be taken in these drugstores. It turns out that in the morning only 64 pharmacies were reported for this program. There were supposed to be free, common (bell) testing possibilities in pharmacies. They're gone. Once again, you are misleading the country, cheating Poles and Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u156	Thank you very much. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Once again, I cannot agree with you because, because of these specific data, you may disagree with this data, but they are hard - I am convinced that more and more pharmacies will enter the system of free testing. We know that a lot of patients applied to the pharmacy to buy themselves and take a test at home. We want this to be recorded in the system at the moment, and we want to have a preview of how many people are infected, how many people have benefited from this testing. Unfortunately, sir, maybe it sounds like these drugstores aren't willing. And I have the opposite information from pharmacists. I'm sure there are certain requirements we need to provide in pharmacies. There's gotta be intimacy to get a swab, there's gotta be a separate room. I agree that not all drugstores will have that possibility. Let me remind you that there are over 13 thousand in Poland. pharmacies and probably some of these pharmacies won't go into this system, but we're trying to make sure that in every place where it's possible, this point where we can get tested is available. It is also about what I said earlier: at these erasing points where only swabs are being taken at the moment, it will also be possible to perform an antigen test, a quick test, when we get the result after several minutes. You won't need a referral. Anyone who has doubts about their own health will be able to report there and the test will be carried out. I am always very sad to say that you are a little bit in the health sphere also mixing politics and trying to discredit us as the Ministry of Health in this way. I'm sorry, because I always thought that health matters should unite us, we should work together. I like to go to meetings of the Health Committee, because sometimes there are very constructive advice. We can make good decisions together and many of your comments have been implemented. It's not like we have a panacea that we know best how to manage a pandemic. I also like to listen to other voices, and most often we try to take advantage of these good advices. Let's see what happens. The fifth wave is definitely spreading right now. It is difficult to predict the effect this will have on hospitalisation. It seems that the breakthrough, the summit will be mid-February, which is a few more certainly difficult weeks ahead of us. I hope that also the Ministry of Health, and the opposition together will try to fight to defeat this fifth wave effectively. Thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to ask you to stay for a while longer, because I think that when it comes to matters of health and life, we should not limit our time. If there's any more questions, I'll let them. Tell me. You know that I always like to listen to you and enter cultural maybe not polemics, but these drugstores: How do they, because it's very interesting to me, are they encouraged? What I'm saying is not vicious, absolutely. How are they encouraged to participate in this program? Do they have money out of it? Is the state helping them? I'm talking about the institution of the state. Well, there are some who have peace, others who do not have peace. Is it like they're getting some money for helping them run tests? In a word, what is the incentive for the pharmacist, the owner of the pharmacy, to do this? I'm sorry about that, but it's just an imposition. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, vaccinations, including tests, pharmacists or owners of other places where they are carried out, will receive gratification. There is a possibility that we will provide these tests with the Material Reserve Agency for free, but if the pharmacy wants to purchase such a test on its own and wants to use it, it will also be refunded. So here are financial incentives. That's why we see great potential - if we look at pharmacys, which are very much and are close to us - in order to create such points in these pharmacies. Of course, there is a requirement that people who want to take this test should not be embarrassed here, because the pharmacy is also a place where people apply for different medications, after prescriptions. I think we've created some requirements here. These requirements are practically the same as for vaccination punks, here there are no big requirements that drugstores have to meet, so I'm pretty sure that the pharmacy that they want to run tests will come in every day.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u158	Thank you very much. In the correction mode, I saw Mr Rajmund Miller wanted to say something else? Here you go, using the Minister's presence.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u159	Minister, I didn't hear the answer to the question. Have you submitted a bill to the Sejm? - because that's what you said we heard. We don't see the bill. And Mr Hoca's bill will fly again for the next two weeks. Good. Thank you very much for that question. Minister? And one more question. No, it's already... Oh, okay, good.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u160	...too much time, but it's about health, which is why I'm allowing it. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u161	I will answer: there will probably be a parliamentary project and it will probably be processed today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u162	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Minister, thank you, Members. Let's move on to the next question. The question will be asked by Mariusz Trepek of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. It will focus on supporting the development of future healthcare professionals. This question is asked to the Minister of Health. Mr Piotr Bromber will answer the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. Please, Mr Trepka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u163	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Marshal, I'm going to refer a little bit to the earlier statements of my colleagues at the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition that beds don't heal - medical staff heals, and we all need to know that. For many years, let's say 30, there's a problem in health care. We all know that, and health care should unite us all. I have a question about the medical staff. The outbreak period has clearly shown that extensive medical staff are essential for the proper functioning of the health system. Minister, I would like you to talk a little bit more about how the Ministry of Health has developed or implemented incentive mechanisms that would encourage potential future students to study in the field of health care. Which specifically includes the so-called. A package for young people in health care? How did the number of places in the medical field increase? - because we see that for the last years when Law and Justice rule, this number of places in medical courses is gradually increased every year. How much did the number of residences increase? - because it's very necessary for these doctors to be more and more. What are the general incentives for young people to learn medically so that we can have health protection as a society? I would very much ask you to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u164	Thank you for asking the question. I ask Minister Piotr Bromber to respond. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u165	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! What are the proposals for young people? On Monday, Minister Adam Niedzielski, Minister of Health, at the Faculty of Medical University in Poznań announced, presented a package for young people. What does this young package contain? First of all, participation in decisions taken. What's this all about? We listen to medical students, listen to young doctors, not only to medical students, but also to other medical students. There are meetings with local government, study meetings at individual medical universities or medical departments. This participation is among others. participation of students, participation of residents in working groups appointed by Mr Adam Niedzielski, Minister of Health, among others. First team on changes in education standards and second team on project development: Work for a student. There are representatives of students and young doctors in these two teams. A college loan is another instrument that motivates the idea of these studies. Another element is the strengthening of competences and skills. We see the need to introduce several modules that will strengthen the competences and skills of students, among others. a module focused on communication, communication in the profession, i.e. communication between different medical professions, but also communication with the patient. Reinforcing responsibility, stress, is also an important component that strengthens entry into the profession at this stage. Skills for applying for grants, research - another component of strengthening competences and skills. I have already mentioned a change in the standards of medical and dental training. We are talking about redirecting and focusing on the practicality of these studies, more practical elements and strengthening competences and skills in this way. Work for a student - also enable students to employ in medical entities IV, V and VI years. It's another element that's going to make college more practical. A young didactic - a mechanism to encourage young students to stay at the university and also take care of the didactics. Not only with scientific work, not only with work at the clinic, but also to encourage teaching work. Simplification in the process of specialisation training is also an important solution, which is aimed precisely at residents. E.g. we are considering solutions for changes in the specialization exam. The question of increasing the number of places in medical courses. Since 2016, the Ministry of Health has significantly increased admission limits. Currently, compared to 2015, the admission limits for medical studies have been increased by more than 2800 places. This is an important quantitative element. As regards the issue of increasing the number of residences, since 2015, the number of doctors and dentists during specialisation has gradually increased. In 2015, this figure was 22 786 and last year it was 27 205. This is a significant increase, a dozen percent, when it comes to comparing these two periods. In terms of increasing the number of seats in accredited entities over this period we also have a significant increase, about 15% . Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u166	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mariusz Trepek. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u167	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! We see that the law and justice government in health care is doing the most in the last 30 years. We have heard that over the last five years the number of residences has increased by more than 5,000, the limits of admissions in medical studies - by more than 2,000. It's tangible. This medical staff will be coming up in the years to come, but it cannot be trained within a year, two years, so that she can already work. It takes about 10 years on average. So in three or four years from now, we're gonna have more. Minister! What does the Ministry of Health do for other medical professions, not just doctors? I'd like to hear more from the Minister here, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u168	Thank you very much. I invite the Minister again.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to other medical professions, of course, action at student level is being taken. Participation, participation, conversations with students, strengthening competences - these are activities dedicated not only to students in the medical field. Of course, the issue of wage increases is also an important element. Let me remind you that we have a common position adopted in the trialogue, we have a draft law increasing the minimum wage in health care. This is an important element, which is also dedicated to persons performing individual medical professions. Another important element for the environment is the issue of formal regulation, which also strengthens this potential. E.g. The law on laboratory medicine, which was in the Council of Ministers' permanent committee today, the law on the profession of paramedic and the law on certain medical professions - these are also legal acts aimed at strengthening this potential. Of course, we take other actions, among others. dedicated to nurses and locals, such as successful training and attractiveness, promotion of this profession. We've reset the dialogue. This is a completely different perspective of dialogue with the environments, with the professional self-government. These are also important, important elements, because they form part of a different understanding of this dialogue. We base our discussions on a culture of compromise, not a culture of right, which is listening - listening to young people, listening to residents and listening to representatives of professional authorities. This is an important element that we believe is also important in the context of the action that I refer to as strengthening human potential. In public space, we talk a lot about infrastructure investments, about increasing expenditure on healthcare provision. The strengthening of human health potential is also an important element. The actions I have mentioned are just included in this strengthening of human potential in health protection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u170	Thank you very much. Let's move on, ladies and gentlemen, to the next question. Mr Andrzej Gawron from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question on the 2030 Productivity Strategy. This question will be addressed to the Minister of Development and Technology and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State in this Ministry by Minister Mariusz Golecki. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u171	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! The 2030 Productivity Strategy is a document prepared by the Ministry which sets out the objectives and directions of state intervention in the field of industrial policy, innovation policy or export policy, but will also form the basis for spending European funds in this new perspective, 2021 and 2027. A vision for the development of modern industry, based on innovation, is essential, adapted to the current realities, which are changing very quickly. Action must also be taken to strengthen the competitiveness of the entire Polish economy. That's what we need analysis for. I think that this document, which is being prepared at the Ministry, will lead to this. I ask the Minister to provide information on the main areas covered by the 2030 Productivity Strategy programme and the timetable for the work on this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u172	Thank you very much. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The development of the economy, in particular the development of a modern economy, requires a strategic plan, targeted, detailed actions and effective instruments. These three main challenges are met by the Council of Ministers' document. The 2030 Productivity Strategy. It is a document that essentially designs actions aimed at creating a modern economy. What is the purpose of this action? The aim is to focus support on production investments, R &amp; I processes, infrastructure investments, including research and innovation, as well as on the development of green production processes, which is particularly important in recent years. To put it simply, this document addresses a fundamental problem that has been diagnosed over the last few years, a problem that concerns the so-called. development traps, i.e. traps of average product and average income. This document is intended to address three key issues or to form part of three global trends, macro-trends: firstly, climate neutrality, secondly, the circular economy, thirdly, digital advancement, with particular emphasis on solutions for so-called. Industry 4.0. These are key issues from the perspective of the long-term transformation of the economy not only Polish or European, but also world-wide. To what, then, is this strategy to be implemented, and what is the objective? The aim is a progressive, sustainable and inclusive increase in productivity, which will be based on the use of knowledge, new technologies, especially digital technologies. As regards the areas that he has asked about, there are essentially seven areas: the area of natural resources, the area of work and human capital, the area of investment, in particular investment in sustainable capital, but also financial investment, the area of organisation and institutions, the area of knowledge, the area of data, in particular the development of the so-called. an algorithmic data-based economy - I have already mentioned Industry 4.0 - and finally, seventhly, the area of internationalisation. As far as the area of internationalisation is concerned, as this may sound in general, it is essentially about achieving two specific objectives: firstly, increasing the number of exporters and value of exports in particular to non-European markets, secondly, increasing exports of goods in the field of high technology, in particular using the so-called. e-commerce channels, e-commerce. What direction is desirable? We assume that as a result of this strategy, the Polish economy should become more given-, vis- and capital intensive, i.e. it should move higher in the value chain. This will draw competitive advantages from technologically advanced technologies, from the use of knowledge and focus on this, while moving away from exports, which is based on low production costs. This strategy essentially assumes an increase in the use of digital tools, as I said, improving the quality of human capital, reducing the use of natural resources in relation to production, and finally stimulating the foreign expansion of Polish entrepreneurs, which I already mentioned. As part of the actions envisaged in the 2030 Productivity Strategy, there are also those which counter - this is an important social element - the negative social effects of the technological revolution, the consequences which are inevitably inevitable, such as robotics, technological unemployment, which results from this, or digital exclusion. In this area, we will provide more opportunities for lifelong learning and support for the development policy of workers, which is expected to have a positive impact on the level of competence of Poles, as well as their tendency to develop certain skills which, as we know, need to be deepened and broadened. As regards the timetable and the way in which it is implemented, the strategy assumes an amount of PLN 85 billion for the period 2022 to 2030. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the present stage at which we are located, it was initially adopted by the Joint Committee of the Government and the Local Government and looks forward to the adoption by the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers in the form of a resolution of the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u174	Thank you very much, Minister. Here you go, extra question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u175	Thank you, Minister, for this information. I would also like to ask for consultations on this strategy, because the strategy is long-standing and very broad, as the Minister put it. The Minister said that there have already been consultations with local authorities, which is very important, but I would also ask for information on whether there are other consultations, whether there have been invited representatives of entrepreneurs, because I think this is the group to which this strategy is very much concerned. I also have signals from trade representatives that we should consider how we can support those who are trained in crafts, who are prepared for the profession. I would ask you to address the broader aspect of the consultation. Can there still be any ideas, solutions at this point in time when this strategy has not yet been adopted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u176	Thank you. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u177	As far as consultation is concerned, consultations have already taken place, while at strategy level its implementation requires the adoption of something called the Industrial Development Programme. This industrial policy of the country, which will address specific instruments and resources for allocating this amount of PLN 85 billion, will indeed be implemented with the support of the social partners - we are already having a dialogue with them on this subject - and, of course, representatives of particular sectors and sectors, so that we can obtain information on how these specific problems should be addressed. As far as crafts are concerned, we are at the stage of preparing the draft law on crafts, which will address this problem, I believe, which the Member mentioned. So that, in general, both the strategy itself and industrial policy or the industrial development programme were developed with a broad participation of the various sectors, sectors and social partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u178	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Minister. I thank the Member for asking questions. Let's move on to the next question. Members Adam Oldakowski and Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about the system of control of spending money intended for the liquidation of the so-called. White spots of communication. This question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. They will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Rafał Weber. I would ask Mr Adam Oldakowski to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, we have introduced a surcharge of 3 PLN to 1 km for bus transport in order to eliminate the so-called. White spots of communication. It's about getting buses and buses to a village where there were no bus transports of people to work, church, doctor, etc. The people in these towns had a difficult communication connection. Minister! Recently, a group of carriers from Warmia and Mazury, from the districts of Giżycki, Olecki and Olsztyn, came to me asking for intervention, as they are eliminated from the possibility of transport in those counties, where the routes are awarded without a tender. For this purpose, 3 zlotys are also used to eliminate white spots in the communication system, not to combine and eliminate competition in transports. Minister! I have a question for you about this. First: Is there a system for controlling the spending of money for the elimination of white spots? Are they issued correctly and honestly? Two: Why is there no requirement to tender for lines that eliminate white spots? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u180	Thank you very much. Minister Rafał Weber. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the Bus Development Fund is a tool supporting the organisation of collective transport, which was introduced by a decision of the Government of Law and Justice. Seeing this problem, the problem of increasing white spots in the exclusion of communication and the lack of availability of collective transport, particularly in rural areas, in areas far from large cities, even from cities smaller than the towns of the county, we have decided to create a special programme that will support local government units to organise bus lines to increase the communication accessibility of the regions of our country. It is enough to mention that by 2018, during the time of the changes that took place in Poland in 1990, nearly 0.5 billion cars of kilometres of bus connections were closed. We wanted to reverse this trend. Hence the idea, the concept of co-financing, i.e. the use of government funds, which will support local governments as organizers of collective transport, to create bus lines. A brief historical view of what it looked like when the fund was introduced. The Fund was established on the basis of the Act of 16 May 2019 on the Development Fund for public service bus services. In 2019 1228 communication lines were co-financed and the voivodships spent more than PLN 10 million to support these lines. In 2020 2834 communication lines were created and the financial resources that were earmarked for this purpose were nearly PLN 140 million. 2021, the year COVID, the year in which we had to deal with less mobility of Poles and major problems in terms of collective transport, is over 4000 communication lines, exactly 4081 communication lines, and the commitment of funds at the level of PLN 436 million. And this year, 2022. At the moment, it's 4900 communication lines. The involvement of funds of the fund is estimated at PLN 550 million. So that you can see that this tool is readily used by local authorities, that it was worth introducing it, that it meets the expectations of the society, which is waiting for a well organized collective transport. To answer the Members' questions, I would like to say that she is a voivode, in accordance with Article. 14 of the Act on the Development Fund for Bus Transport, is obliged to verify each application of the bus operator for payment from the Fund. Support from the Fund shall be provided by the voivode only to organisers whose applications have been verified correctly by the voivode. Irrespective of the above, the voivode is based on Article. 18 of the Fund Act examines, first, the manner and timeliness of the performance of the task for which the surcharge was granted, having regard to the provisions of the Public Public Transport Service Agreement and the contract for the provision of public transport services, second, the correctness of the calculation of the aid in respect of compliance with the aid agreement and thirdly the compatibility of the public public transport service contract with the requirements of the Public Collective Transport Act of 16 December 2010. In addition, for each year of operation of the Fund, at least 15% must be covered by the Fund. all organizers operating in the voivodship and not less than 5% all funds transferred by the voivodship in a given year. Appropriate control (the bell) is facilitated by the fact that each organiser to whom payment has been granted is obliged to keep separate accounts of the payments received and of the expenditure covered by the payment. If there is a possibility now, Mr. Marshal, I can answer the second question immediately, and if not, I will answer the time devoted to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u182	Well, maybe you'll ask... Then stay. There will be a question from the Member immediately and we will combine this. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u183	Thank you very much! Minister! In times of pandemic the maintenance of the line is not always profitable for carriers, hence the communications subsidies are really very important, while the elimination of white spots of communication is one of the actions aimed at equal opportunities, the rights of residents to reach other parts of the region, and this concerns not only the region that my previous speaker was talking about, but just the whole of Poland. My questions relate to the duration of these payments. Is it specific? Is revalorisation of the rates of these subsidies being considered, and can new entrants continue to join, i.e. to benefit from these subsidies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u184	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u185	Thank you very much. I will answer Mr Oldakowski's second question. As regards this question, I would like to inform you that public transport is organised and launched on the basis of the provisions of the Act of 16 December 2010 on public collective transport. The provisions of this law lay down the way public transport is operated and organised by means of the designation of public transport organisers, such as local government units or their associations. The provisions of the Act lay down the tasks of the organisers, as well as the principles of the organisation and operation of public service transport. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 19 Laws have been identified as possible for the organiser to apply the modes of selection of the public transport operator. Organisers of public collective transport may choose an operator under the law - Public procurement law or directly conclude a contract for the provision of public collective transport services. However, the direct conclusion of a contract for the provision of public collective transport services in bus transport is only possible in the cases referred to in Article. Article 22 (2) (b) Points 1, 2 and 4 of the Collective Transport Act. With a view to ensuring the availability of public transport for passengers, public collective transport organisers shall also benefit from the possibility of directly concluding a contract for the provision of public collective transport services provided for in Article. Article 22 (2) (b) Point 1 (4). Using this mode allows the organisers of public collective transport to react quickly when problems arise with the availability of bus transport. To put it less clearly and probably more clearly: it is possible to take the operator out of hand, while the conditions set out in Article must be fulfilled. Article 22 (2) (b) Points 1, 2 and 4 of the Collective Transport Act. I move to answer the questions asked by Mrs Banaszek. When we saw problems mainly related to the much lower mobility of passengers in the pandemic, we reacted and a new rate of aid entered into force on 1 April 2020. We increased it from 1 PLN to a car km to a maximum of 3 PLN to a car km. This rate is maintained until the end of 2022 and we also want to maintain it in the further years of operation of the Fund. [[♪ The bell ♪]] With regard to the new local government units that would like to join and obtain funds from this subsidy, yes, it is possible. In voivodships, where there are financial resources for this, and in most voivodships there is still a limit for this, organizers can ask the voivodship to announce recruitment and obtain funds for the payment of bus lines in bus transport, in public transport. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u186	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much, Members. Let's move on to the next question. The next question will be asked by Mrs Margaret Tracz and Mr Cezary Grabarczyk. It will cover funds from the sale of carbon allowances. This question is addressed to the Minister of Climate and Environment, and the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment will answer Minister Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński. I ask you, Mrs Margaret Tracz, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In recent times, the United Right Government has given us a false narrative about the rise in energy prices. The blame for this situation is not coal energy, on which we are still addicted. The blame for this situation is not even more the government itself, which for six years has done nothing to reduce this addiction and move on to cheap and clean green energy. The EU emissions trading system has become a scapegoat. According to the United Right, this system is simply evil incarnate. Meanwhile, the truth has to be said: the emissions trading system is simply a gold mine for you. Therefore, in your propaganda narrative, you deliberately ignore the fact that the funds received from the sale of emission allowances return to the state budget, are the revenue of the state budget. You keep this out of the way because it raises important questions: What happened to the funds from the sale of emission allowances that have been affecting since 2016? How much was it exactly? How were they released? These are the key questions, because we are talking about PLN 50/60 billion, which during these six years we obtained from emissions trading, and only last year it was PLN 25bn. What did they go for? You just patched up the budget because you can't see any changes, you can't see any investments in terms of climate improvement in terms of the transformation of our economy, our energy. And let me remind you that according to the ETS directive, at least 50% the measures (the bell) should go precisely for these purposes. Minister! Where's the money? What were they spent on? This is a really important and crucial question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u188	Thank you very much. I'd like to invite the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Thank you so much for that question. This is indeed an important question, as the best way to avoid the high costs of the ETS is to invest in new sources, carbon-free sources. Even if these are processes that are long, difficult investments, they are also crucial for the stability of our energy system, not only for the reduction of emissions. So these really are investments that are crucial. What happens to the ETS measures? In our legal system we have set out in the law implementing the ETS Directive, a specific allocation already of 25% revenues from auctions. This appropriation is intended to cover indirect costs for energy-intensive industries. In addition, we are currently working on a fund that will support not energy-intensive industries, but energy modernisation. We're going to spend 40% on this. revenues from auctions. Another important source of support for this transition is the Modernization Fund, which accounts for around 15% of its funding. auction revenues in the next decade. These are only the main items that are included in existing and planned legislation. But in addition, the government still invests in reducing emissions also under other programmes. These are very famous programs of my current, clean air, which support the thermomodernization of buildings, the development of renewable energy in Poland. And that's what a lot, a lot more money is going for than ever. I have the data that he collected from the national fund, which shows that, for example. in 2008 all climate investments in Poland were in the order of 200 million, in 2009 - 171, in 2010 - 150 etc. Only in the last 2 years have these amounts increased significantly: in 2019 there were almost 2.5 billion, in 2020 - 3.3 billions of NFOŚ funds alone. In addition to those funds that invest the national fund, there are also programmes that support investment, e.g. the famous thermomodernization relief, thanks to which investments worth more than PLN 10 billion were mobilised last year. So these are more programs, too. In addition to investment issues, it is important to address the social consequences of these climate policy costs in response to an increase in the price of allowances. And that's what was done with the shielding. We estimate that almost 5 billion, 4700 million will be spent for this purpose. Of course, I would rather spend these funds on investment than addressing the social consequences, the negative social consequences of climate policy, because this is a long-term need for Poland. That's why I don't have such an idealized ETS vision. I don't think he's perfect. I think there is a lot to make right that we should definitely move on from a system that creates an additional tax that burdens the economy that burdens households with, to a system that actually supports investment. I hope that we will be able to convince our partners in the European Union to make such changes that will just reduce the costs of this system for households, especially for the poorest, and will help to carry out this most necessary modernisation of our energy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Grabarczyk. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I know that Mr Grabarczyk, I was just trying to hear the answer to the question, and that is why I was so excited. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, wanted to hear the answer to the question asked by Mrs Tracz. Because one thing is certain: Poland has obtained a huge amount of PLN 57 and 60 billion for the sale of CO2 allowances. Only last year it was 25 billion PLN, in 2020. More than PLN 14 billion in 2019 Almost PLN 11 billion in 2018. More than PLN 5 billion. Minister, we're asking for specifics. In the years to come, we received great revenues from the sale of CO2 allowances. What did the money go for? Please respond to the House. The House has a control function, it cannot be ( [[Ring the bell)]] Slide on the subject. Yesterday we were working on the Renewable Energy Act and it turned out that the barrier to connecting photovoltaic micro-installations is network failure. And the question is: How much of this money, out of this 57 billion PLN, did you spend on upgrading the network? So that those who are interested in investing in home energy, on-site energy, can join in. How much did you invest in the network? I'm asking you to be specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u192	Thank you very much. You're very kind, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u193	Thank you very much for these additional questions. I think that these figures, which you have quoted, show very well that, for example, practically half of the total revenues from the auction system came from last year and this shows how fast the increase in CO2 prices in the recent period, which explained of course this increase in revenues, but which also complicates investment processes for companies. Because if this price changes so quickly in such a short period, it is difficult for companies to plan an investment that will help them react, reduce emissions as fast as the increase in these prices is. Therefore, it seems to me that it is in our interest, in order to enable investment quickly, to reform the ETS in order to give it direction to support investment rather than burden the economy. As far as the details of the network are concerned, I do not have data in front of me with precise values, but in order to give rows of the size of these investments in the network, I will say that every year in Poland they are billions of zlotys in the networks themselves. And the state's support for these networks is hundreds of millions, so these are rows of size. I can, of course, answer the question in writing. [[I'm the one who's asking you to actually have that written answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u194	Thank you very much, Minister. Members' request that the Ministry answer this question in writing. We're moving on to the last question today. This question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. It will apply to the exercise of the 500+ supplementary benefit right for persons unable to live on their own. This question will be addressed to the Minister of Family and Social Policy and will be answered by the Secretary of State in this Ministry by Minister Stanisław Szwed. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to ask her questions. It worked out great.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Among those requiring special support from the State are persons with disabilities, including in particular those unable to exist on their own. The Government of Law and Justice, in response to the needs of the environment of persons with disabilities, took the necessary action to provide such support by introducing a statutory solution providing such assistance in 2019. We are talking about a supplementary payment of PLN 500. The purpose of this benefit is to provide additional financial support to persons unable to live on their own. It serves those who are 18 years of age and due to the extent of their functional limitations resulting from a significant impairment of the body's performance, the cost of functioning in everyday and social life, including the costs of care, rehabilitation and medical care, and the inability to exist alone has been determined by an appropriate judgment. Minister! I kindly ask you to answer the question: How is the payment of supplementary benefits for people with disabilities unable to live independently? How many such persons are now entitled to this supplementary benefit? How many decisions did the Social Insurance Institution give them? What is the cost of this social program? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u196	Thank you, Member. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank you for this question concerning the supplementary benefit of 500+ for those unable to live on their own. In her question, the Member has already included who is concerned with this solution. Let me remind you that this solution has been introduced since 1 October 2019. It is addressed to persons who are 18 years old and are found in the form of a judgment completely unable to work and self-existence. This applies to all professional groups: industry, farmers and uniformed services. This benefit applies to those persons who, for various reasons, have not had the opportunity to earn a pension or have, for example, a pension. social pension at the rate of the lowest pension. Let me remind you that last year and this year it is the amount of PLN 1250.88. At the same time, we introduced a mechanism so that those who exceed this amount could benefit from this benefit, so-called. A cashier's mechanism for a cashier's fee. We set the thresholds for this benefit in individual years. In 2019 it was the amount of PLN 1600 in 2020, PLN 1700 in 2020 and last year - PLN 1772.8 gr. Of course, this amount was changed every year in the context of changes in the value ratio. The important change that we have made is the amendment of the law that entered into force on 13 January this year, in which we introduced a permanent mechanism for the valorization of this benefit, i.e. there will be no need to make any changes every year - every year this amount will be valued. So this benefit of PLN 500 plus the lowest pension will already be valued and we will not determine the amount that is needed here. Now, going to the data that you have been asking about, I will talk about all the institutions, namely the KRUS, the ZUS, the MMA's Pension Office, the Military Pension Office. A total of 1141 thousand were received by the end of last year. applications, of which 767 510 were issued, i.e. in more than 200,000. cases have been refused the right to benefit, mainly because no incapacity for self-existence has been found, the main reason for authorising this benefit. As far as data is concerned, these figures can be given: 61% the persons charged a benefit of up to 1250,88 gr, i.e. the lowest benefit, and 15% - in the amount up to PLN 1350, i.e. most people were in the lowest range. As regards the institutions that paid it, in 2021 the Social Insurance Institution paid over PLN 4800 million, KRUS, or the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund - over PLN 2700 million, i.e. more than PLN 7.5 billion was paid only from ZUS and KRUS. Let me remind you that the total number of persons who have benefited from supplementary benefits is 767 510. The majority are women - over 65% Conclusions, men - 35%. What is also important in terms of age range is more than 43% people over 75 years of age. The full amount, i.e. PLN 500, was granted 58% insured. This shows that this benefit was needed, that it helps people who had no income and have full funding of 500 PLN. Those who have the lowest pension or social pension could also benefit from this amount of PLN 500. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that we can be glad that the program is well implemented and over 700,000. the recipients benefit from this program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u198	Thank you very much. If you were so kind, Minister, and waited a moment, it would be an additional question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u199	Thank you very much, Minister, for providing a comprehensive response on the implementation of the supplementary benefit for those unable to live on their own. Support for people with disabilities is extremely important and necessary. The Government of Law and Justice also implements programmes supporting other groups, groups forgotten by previous governments. We do not forget, we even ask for them, preparing support solutions. Such an underappreciated group, previously unnoticed, were mothers, sometimes also fathers who, due to the upbringing of four and more children, could not take up work and thus earn retirement benefits. Law and Justice prepared and implemented a programme of mother 4+ dedicated to such people in a token of gratitude of the Polish state. Minister! Please note how the 2019 programme is implemented and how many people have benefited from it so far. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To what extent are the benefits paid and what amount was the total amount allocated to the payment of these benefits under the mum 4+ scheme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u200	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! It's also the second, very important, family support program - Mom's 4+ program, which is a supplemental benefit for those mothers who gave birth or raised four children. It also applies to fathers, because this program is designed like this. This scheme may be used by persons who, for various reasons, have not worked out an adequate pension and are not fully retired or have a lower pension due to a shorter pension. Of course, a dozen people are women. But we also show that this solution has helped people who did not have any benefits, e.g. They raised four kids, they didn't work. In particular, the yearbooks born before 1948, which were not acquired, had no pension rights. Today, this case is solved. As far as the number of people who benefit from this programme is concerned, the applications submitted were over 79 000. This benefit was granted to 75 135 persons, i.e. virtually all those who applied for it, received it. Let me remind you that the programme was implemented on 1 March 2019. He is continued and so constructed that people are entitled to the lowest pension. This year until 1 March is the amount of PLN 1250.88. If these people take pensions to a lower extent, this difference is financed for them. At the moment, over 65 thousand people use this program. people within the Social Insurance Institution and 1272 persons within the KRUS, i.e. we can estimate that this is almost 67 thousand. persons. In the voivodship from which you come, almost 5 000 benefit from this benefit. persons. In total, we spend about PLN 1200 million on this benefit throughout the entire period of the programme. This year there will be another valorisation of pensions and this benefit will also be higher. As I said, this benefit is addressed both to moms who receive it from the Social Insurance Institution and to moms who receive it from agricultural insurance. In this respect (The Bell) these issues are also very well received. Almost 67,000. I have less than 400 people - a group of fathers benefit from this program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u202	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, Member. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm declaring a time-out. 2.30 p.m. Then we'll move on to the voting block. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 31 hours 14 min 36]] I'm reopening the session. I invite all your fellow Members to the O.R. We'll proceed with the quorum in a moment. I would like to ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. You're welcome. The meeting shall be attended by 453 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. Groups of Members have submitted proposals for the appointment of a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. The opinion of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on these applications was delivered to ladies and gentlemen in print 1956. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of the matter. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Poland and Australia, print No 1963. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 1980. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The Committee on Public Finances submitted a report on the Senate's resolution on the Budget Law for 2022, print No 1936. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the law on hard coal mining, - on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, - amending the Act - Water law and certain other laws, - passport documents, - amending the Passenger Name Record Processing Act, - amending the Law on Strategic Reserves and certain other laws. The reports are printed in 1953, 1979, 1955, 1950, 1949 and 1951 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We have formal requests. Please, with a formal proposal from Mr Richard Galla, not associated. There you go. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u203	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am making a formal request for an adjournment in the session of the Sejm, asking the Marshal to meet with the Members of the United Rights and to speak with them on the amendments concerning the State budget for 2022, and in particular on one amendment tabled by the Senate, the third on the return to the original value of the general subsidy in the educational part. It is about resources to teach the languages of national and ethnic minorities. Ladies and gentlemen! I've already mentioned how We expose ourselves and the Polish government to criticism from the outside, as we violate the provisions of our constitution, the provisions of the Act on National and Ethnic Minorities (Gwar in the Chamber), or regulations concerning... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! Please consider this. Vote in favour of this amendment, because you will see what the situation of the Polish government will be when it has to report. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, sir, thank you. Your Marshal, please, because you promised me something, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u204	Thank you very much, sir. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Here you go, with the opposite conclusion, as I understand it, Mr Kowalski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u205	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! Here's Poland. We restore Polish-German symmetry. [[Voice from the Chamber: Polish citizens.]] [[Voice from the room: Russian agent.]] [[Sit down, xenophobia!]] 30 million PLN for learning Polish language for our compatriots, for Polonia. We received great thanks from Polish organizations discriminated against for 30 years by the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[These are Polish citizens, you idiot.]] The Civic Platform always speaks German. You always defend the rights of the Germans. We stand on the side of Poland... [[Sit down, chauvinist!]] ...and we will vote for it. Polish-German symmetry must be a fact. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[These are Polish citizens, you idiot.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u206	Thank you. There you go, as a request for interruption has been made, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of announcing a break in the sitting will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Your Marshal, I'm sorry, but I have an inactive card.]] 455 Members voted. 214 - for, 238 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal proposal from Barbara Nowacka, the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u207	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Firstly, I would ask you very much for a moment of attention and seriousness, because what I want to talk about is a painful matter that affects many Poles. I ask the marshal to adjourn, so that the people responsible for the misfortune of Poles who happen have time to leave, apologize... [[Voice from the hall: Get off the platform!]] ...but also declare that the hell of Poles a year after Mr Kaczyński's tribunal passed judgment on women, he will be able to be changed. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Get down!]] Mr. President Kaczyński! [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] [[Voice from the room: Out!]] Member of the Commission, Member of the European Parliament... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Don't bother.]] I'm asking you with a very serious request. You are addressing the High House, Madam Member. Promise the Polish people, Mrs Isabella's family, Mrs Agnieszka's family, that women in Poland will not have to get pregnant. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] [[Don't bother.]] Promise the doctors they'll be able to save women. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] Madam, you are addressing the High House. I ask you, Mrs. Marshal, also as a woman, to let you tell me for a moment what happens to girls. They're afraid to have kids, they're dying... [[Applause]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u208	Thank you very much, Member. [[You're not impressed, are you?]] Because there's been a request for a continuance... [[It's a vote against.]] A vote against? There you go. Mrs Anna Siarkowska with a vote against.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u209	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[You have blood on your hands.]] Mrs Nowacka is misleading the High House, because those situations where there are medical errors... [[There's blood on your hands.]] ...have nothing to do with the judgment of the tribunal, [[Applause]] That's why I'm filing a counterclaim. Absolutely no break is necessary. [[You accuse the doctors, they'll come for you in court.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u210	Thank you, Member. As a motion for adjournment has been made, I will put this request to the vote. Please proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 200 for, 245 against, 11 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Mr Wojciech Maksymowicz, Poland 2050, with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 3 days ago, all political forces gathered for an appeal by the Prime Minister, President of the Council of Ministers of Mateusz Morawiecki, in a sense of common understanding that the situation is dramatic. We break records of new infections every day. We know, we specialists have to listen to experts a little too, that in 2 weeks. We're gonna break the records of the number of deaths of our citizens. On the third day we look forward to any specific information about solutions. Even if they were introduced now, it's a chance. the effect decreases with virtually every hour. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, for those who pay attention to the article. The 38th Constitution that Prime Minister Kaczyński spoke of - the fifth commandment of God: do not kill. Thank you very much, sir. There was no formal application. I move to suspend the session, to close the session. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u212	Thank you. There can be no closure in the debate on the budget, Mr. You should know that. [[You didn't interrupt a voice from the Sirakovska room.]] Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am making a formal request to supplement the agenda of the bill, which will allow us to fight the pandemic. The Government of Law and Justice abdicated in the fight against the pandemic. People are dying, hospitals are full, and you don't want to prosecute the laws that are already in the Seym. [[Applause]] Mandatory vaccinations, COVID passports - this is a chance for normality. [[Voice from the room: You know everything best.]] Meeting with Prime Minister Morawiecki. President Kaczyński promises: there will be a bill. Your Marshal Witek said yesterday: we will be sitting. Still nothing. [[Voice from the room: But don't yell.]] Every death, every coffin is the responsibility of the Law and Justice, because you could beat a pandemic if you put in the responsibility and really wanted to overcome it. [[Applause]] You want to fight for support posts. We want to fight for science, health and life of Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u214	Thank you, sir. It wasn't a formal conclusion. As the last Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! About the procession of resolutions. Literally half an hour ago, all political forces, apart from the Left, in the committee of culture translated a resolution on the international day of victims of the Holocaust, because the Left reported a total rottenness, which looked as if it were written by Putin together with Netanyah, in which there was about Polish land, about anti-Semitism in Poland, was mentioned about Auschwitz, without mentioning the perpetrators, Germans, which was absolutely scandalous. And now the Left is making a resolution of this kind at the last moment. That's what the bad guy said about the resolution on Ukraine, which we didn't object to because we didn't object to the resolution on the matter. He's demanding such resolutions. I would like to say that all the lies that Members of the Left with Mrs Zawisza and Mr Zandberg are simply sucked from under the dirty red finger. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] It really didn't happen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] None of this happened at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs or at the meeting of the Seniors Convention. Thank you very much, sir. We are in favour of the Sejm adopting good resolutions, not the remnants of the Left. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u216	Thank you, sir. And a vote against. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u217	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! These disgraceful words of my predecessor, I do not wish to mention his name, which on the day of the Holocaust's victims' memory chooses a resolution commemorating the death of millions of Jews during the Holocaust, it is a disgrace, it is a shame. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] And don't tell me that the resolution is one way or another, that the words are one way or another. You can't deny the Holocaust. We must not deny that there is anti-Semitism in Poland. You are the best representative of anti-Semitism in Poland. That's it, that's it. Scandal. Come to your senses. Thank you very much, Member. Yeah, it's over. That is what a Member of the Polish Parliament says. Will you please stop... [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u218	Thank you very much, Member. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Poland and Australia (Print No 1963) - Aclamation. I ask you, Members, to stand. The resolution of the Polish Parliament on the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Poland and Australia. On the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Poland and Australia, which took place on 20 February 1972, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland expresses its deep satisfaction with the ties between our countries and nations despite the geographical distance between us. Poland and Australia have shared values and interests in the international arena for years, and assessments of challenges and threats in foreign policy are also common. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland appreciates and respects Australia - a close partner of Poland in the region of Asia and the Pacific, a country which for more than two centuries has been a constantly friendly house for the numerous Polish people living there. The strengthening links between Poland and Australia are expressed by economic cooperation, both commercial and investment, confirmed in particular by the exchange of visits at the highest level of power. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland believes that despite the pandemic Polish-Australia cooperation in all areas will continue to develop for the benefit of our countries. I suggest we adopt this resolution by acclamation. Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Poland and Australia. We would like to return to agenda item 25: Report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs: The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1976. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 1976 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 456 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on calling on the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the European Union to support Ukraine in the face of the aggression of the Russian Federation. [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]] Thank you very much. We are returning to the review of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Act on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft law from print No 1952. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1952, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 444 - for, 1 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector. We are returning to the review of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft print law No 1966. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print 1966 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 457 - for, no one was against, held back 2. The Sejm passed a law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Education, Science and Youth Committee and the Health Committee on the Parliamentary draft law amending the law amending the law on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in people and the law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and certain other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the bill from print No 1964. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1964 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 458 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We return to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals and the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1978-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u219	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have the pleasure to submit a report to the Public Finance Commission from print No. 1978-A on the Government bill amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on occupational and social rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities from print No. 1960 and 1960-A. At its 47th meeting, held on 27 January 2022, the Sejm was held in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 1978 to the Committee on Public Finances in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 27 January 2022, asks the High Sejm to reject amendment 1 and four minority proposals and then to reject amendments. 2nd and 3rd accept. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u220	Thank you. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1978. The Commission also presents minority proposals, as well as the additional report on amendments, on which we will vote first. Minority requests from 1 to 4 and Amendments 1 and 2 have been submitted to Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Individual Income Tax Act. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6 plus paragraph. 4c-4e and amendments to Article 34 and 45. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 1st minority proposal. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 216 - for, 244 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 1st minority application, applicants propose inter alia. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6 plus paragraph. 4c-4e. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 227 for, 233 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the second minority proposal to Article. 26 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 4. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[It's not working.]] Who doesn't it work with? [[It's okay.]] 457 Members voted. 225 - for, 232 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the third minority proposal to Article. 26 applicants propose to add paragraph. 7ea. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 225 - for, 233 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th minority application, applicants propose to add Article. 27ba. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 225 for, 233 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the second amendment to the article. 53a applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. Point 1 and paragraph 1. Point 2 (1). The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 404 - for, against - 11, 43 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. 3. the amendment was tabled in Article. 3 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on the Extraction of Certain Copies. In this amendment to the article. 22a applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. 1 and 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 411 - for, 7 - against, with 42 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1978, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 278 - for, 16 - against, with 163 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the Act on Tax on Extraction of Certain Copies. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and the Act on debt restructuring of agricultural operators. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 1973. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no 1973 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 455 - for, 2 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act - Code of Civil Procedure. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Passenger Name Record Processing Act (Prints 1940 and 1949). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs considered the Senate amendment and recommended that the Sejm accept it. I would just like to remind you that this is an important regulation for the aviation market resulting from the implementation of the European Directive, and the Senate amendment was developed in dialogue between the government party, aviation market representatives and parliamentary clubs represented in the Senate. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u222	Thank you very much. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the amendment to the article. 2 of the Law amending the Senate proposes that the content of the article so far be marked as paragraph. 1 and to add paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. Two for, against - 458, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this end we concluded the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Passenger Name Record Processing. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Home Affairs Committee on the Senate's adoption of the Act on Passport Documents (Prints No 1941 and 1950). I ask Mr Jan Szopiński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 21 January, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs adopted a resolution on the amendments of the Senate on 26 January 2022. After considering the seven amendments of the Senate, the committee is in favour of the six amendments of the Senate and gives them a positive opinion and one amendment of the Senate is negative. Detailed information on the panel's examination of the Senate amendments and the opinion of their High House is provided in print No 1950. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u224	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 2 The Senate proposes among others. the new wording of point 5. This amendment is combined with the 14th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 14 will want to press the button. Who's against it? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I see there isn't, ladies and gentlemen, there isn't. Me too... It is now. Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. Two for, against 455, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the second amendment to the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Senate proposes to delete point 4. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. No one was against - 459, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Senate proposes the new wording of point 11 and delete paragraph 12. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 1 for, against - 458, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. Amendments 6 to 11 and 13 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 4, 6 to 11 and 13 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 271 - for, against - 186, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. 30 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 4. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 1 for, against - 456, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 12th amendment to the article. 69 The Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. Two for, against 455, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 15th amendment to the article. 104 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 1 for, against - 457, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. This concludes the Senate resolution on the Passport Documents Act. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals (prints No. 1931 and 1979). I ask Mr Krzysztof July to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u225	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of Culture and Media, and of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I would like the High Sejm to accept an amendment to the bill amending the National Remembrance Institute Act proposed by the Senate. I would like to remind you that this law concerns the transfer of powers of running the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic from the Minister of Justice to the Institute of National Remembrance. On the other hand, this amendment gives a delegation to the President of the Council of Ministers to transfer funds by means of a regulation, financial resources in the form of a special and subjective grant from the State budget department: Justice to the Department: Institute of National Remembrance. So, once again, I wanted to ask the High Sejm to accept this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u226	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the only amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 4a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 61 - for, 365 - against, abstained 34. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we concluded the examination of the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Prosecution of Crime against the Polish Nationals. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Budget Law for 2022 (Prints No 1933 and 1936). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to submit a report to the Committee on Public Finance in print No. 1936 on the Senate's resolution on the Budget Law for 2022 - from print No. 1933. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. On 14 January 2022, the Sejm referred the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 19 January 2022, asks the High Sejm to approve the Senate amendments set out in paragraphs 1 to 65. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u228	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of the 1st Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Article 1 Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] Who doesn't it work with? Raise your hand. Does it work? Please approach the Member. Does it work? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] 459 Members voted. 233 - for, 226 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move on to the second amendment of the Senate to Article. 1 and Article 1 15 and Annexes 1, 2 and 8. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 233 - for, 214 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move on to the third amendment of the Senate to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 239 - for, 219 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 4th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 232 - for, 225 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move on to consideration of the 5th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 233 - for, 225 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 6th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1, 2, 8 and 9. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Sixth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 233 - for, 225 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 7th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to press the button. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] I know it's not working because I can see it. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to read the result of this last vote because I read the previous one that was still on the screen. That's vote number 64. 459 Members voted. 235 - for, 215 - against, abstained 9. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the examination of the 7th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 244 - for, 214 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 8th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 234 - for, 225 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move on to consideration of the 9th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is rejecting the 9th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the hall: In favour, why aren't you voting?]] [[There's a free ticket. Don't force it.]] [[It's up to you to vote.]] I suggest you all concentrate. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] That's actually very nice to me. 460 Members voted. 233 - for, 216 - against, abstained 11. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 10th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 2 and 8. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 233 - for, 224 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move on to the 11th amendment of the Senate to Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Points 3 and 4 and paragraph 1. 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 233 - for, 225 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 12th Senate amendment to Article. 17 and 13. amendments to the Senate's Article. 18. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 12 and 13 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 233 - for, 222 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. We are going to consider the 14th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 14th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 233 - for, 224 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 15th Senate amendments to Annexes 2 and 8. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 242 for, 213 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We are going to consider the 16th Senate amendments to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 16th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Za.]] [[Voice from the room: Against.]] [[And we're in for it because we're positive.]] [[I mean, we're married, not married.]] 459 Members voted. 237 - for, 215 - against, abstained 7. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 17th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 17th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 233 - for, 220 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 18th Senate amendment to Annex 2. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 18th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 233 - for, 214 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 19th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 19th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 233 - for, 214 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 20th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 20th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 232 - for, 217 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 21st Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 21st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 237 - for, 213 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 22nd Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 22nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 233 - for, 215 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We are going to consider the 23rd Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 23rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 234 - for, 223 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 24th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 24th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 244 - for, 214 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 25th Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 25th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 233 - for, 215 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We are going to consider the 26th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 26th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 233 - for, 223 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 27th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 27th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 232 for, 223 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 28th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 28th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 232 - for, against - 226, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 29th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 29th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 233 - for, 223 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 30th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 30th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 232 - for, 222 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 31st Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 31st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 233 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 32nd Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 32nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 234 - for, 215 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 33rd Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 33rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 233 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 34th Senate amendments to Annexes 2, 8, and 14. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 34th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 232 - for, 225 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 35th Senate amendment to Annexes 2, 8 and 14. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 35th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 233 - for, 226 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 36th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 36th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 232 - for, 225 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 37th Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 37th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 240 for, 216 against, three abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 38th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 38th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 236 - for, 218 - against, abstained 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 39th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 39th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 233 - for, 222 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 40th Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 40th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 234 for, 222 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 41st Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 41st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 239 - for, 219 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 42nd Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 42nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 244 - for, 213 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 43rd Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 43rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 235 - for, 217 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 44th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 44th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 233 - for, 225 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 45th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 45th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 233 - for, 218 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We are voting on the 46th Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 46th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 232 for, 224 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We are voting on the 47th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 47th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 235 - for, 219 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We are considering the 48th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 48th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 231 - for, 221 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 49th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 49th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 233 - for, 222 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 50th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 50th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 233 - for, 224 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 51st Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 51st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 233 - for, 221 - against, abstained 5. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 52nd Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 52nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The vote was 455. 233 - for, 222 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 53rd Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 53rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 234 for, 223 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 54th Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 54th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 233 - for, 223 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 55th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 55th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 233 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 56th Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 56th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 234 - for, 224 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 57th Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you is against the 57th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 233 - for, 225 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move on to consideration of the 58th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 58th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 232 for, 224 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We are going to consider the 59th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 59th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 233 - for, 226 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 60th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 60th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 233 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 61st Senate amendments to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 61st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 233 - for, 226 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 62nd Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 62nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 233 - for, 225 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 63rd Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 63rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 233 - for, 223 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 64th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 64th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 235 - for, 221 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move on to consideration of the 65th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 65th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 234 - for, against - 218, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this end we concluded the Senate resolution on the Budget Law for 2022. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Strategic Reserves and certain other laws (Prints No. 1945 and 1951). I ask Mr Tadeusz Chrzan to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u229	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! I would like to present a report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Strategic Reserves and some other laws, print No. 1945. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm were forwarded on 21 January this year. a resolution of the Senate on the above matter to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs, following the recognition of this resolution at its meeting on 26 January this year. asks the High Sejm to reject the Senate's resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u230	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the resolution of the Senate rejecting the bill, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 13 January 2022 amending the Law on Strategic Reserves and certain other laws. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act of 13 January 2022 amending the Law on Strategic Reserves and certain other laws would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 244 - for, 186 - against, 30 stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Law on Strategic Reserves and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining (Prints No. 1930 and 1953). I ask Mr Grzegorz Matusiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report from the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets. At yesterday's meeting, the committee rejected the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining, print no. 1930. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u232	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 17 December 2021 amending the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Law of 17 December 2021 amending the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 236 - for, 70 - against, abstained 152. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law - Water Law and some other laws (prints No. 1944 and 1955). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u233	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the Act amending the Act - Water Law and some other laws, the draft from print No 1843, the Senate adopted an opinion in which it calls for the rejection of the Act. According to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Senate's resolutions on the above matter were again addressed to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and to the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry. On 25 January, the two committees considered the Senate resolution. Well, High Izbo, it is not as the Senate puts it in writing and as it was verbally presented by the Senate's representative, that there are constitutional reservations to the bill, that the essence of the changes contained in the novel is to supplement the three amended transitional laws, which go back several years, 4 years. But the opposition in this matter has far more far-reaching achievements, because even 7 years ago it reached its limits by changing the transitional provisions. Nor is it true that the law we are talking about is contrary to Directive 2011/92/EU, the Directive on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment. Just carefully evaluate and read the opinions of the Sejm Analysis Office in this regard. All these arguments of the joint committees have weighed and recommended that the High House reject the Senate resolution, with a visible majority: 38 members of the committee were in favour of rejecting the Senate resolution, and only 19 were in favour. And that's the recommendation of the joint committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u234	Thank you, Member. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Act of 13 January 2022 amending the Water Law Act and certain other laws. The committees are asking for this resolution to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act of 13 January 2022 amending the Water Law Act and certain other laws will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 257 - for, 189 - against, abstained 9. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Law - Water Law and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Appointment of a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals (prints No. 1921, 1922 and 1956). High Izbo! On 21 December 2021, Mr Sławomir Ryszard Cenckiewicz resigned from the College of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Prosecution of Crime against the Polish Nationals. According to Art. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 point 2 of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals consists of nine members, including five appointed by the Sejm. According to art. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 In the event of termination of membership before the end of the term of office, the competent authority shall immediately appoint a new member until the end of the term of office of the college of the Institute, and the Sejm shall therefore appoint one member. The groups of Members submitted the following nominations for the position of a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals: Mr Mieczysław Pisła and Mr Bartosz Rydliński. On behalf of the Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club, Mr Mieczysław Pisces will be presented with the candidacy of Mr Marek Ast. You're welcome, sir. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u235	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the candidacy of Professor Mieczysław Fish as a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. Professor Mieczysław Ryba is a historian, a habilitated doctor of humanities, an extraordinary professor of the Catholic University of Lublin, John Paul. II. He was born on 14 January 1969 in Biecz in Podkarpacie. He graduated from primary school in 1984 in Lipinki and the average in 1989 in Krosno. In that year he was admitted to the Faculty of History of the Catholic University of Lublin. During his studies he participated in self-education circles and was actively involved in the social life of universities. For a year he was president of the Academic Social and Political Thought Club Vade Mecum. For several years he co-edited a letter entitled Vade Mecum. Mieczysław Ryba in 1994 defended his master's thesis entitled Stanisław Grabski's Social and Political Thought. In the academic year 1995/1996 he started classes as a scholarship assistant in the 1st Chair of Modern History of KUL. The doctoral thesis entitled The socio-political thought of the creators of the national movement in the interwar period was defended in January 1998. In the meantime Mieczysław Ryba published a lot, among others. in writings such as "Man in Culture" or "Społeczne Zeszyty Społeczne KiK". Currently Prof. Ryba works as a researcher at the Catholic University of Lublin and also as a lecturer at the University of Social and Media Culture in Toruń. Until 2014, he was head of the Department of Political System History of the 19th and 20th centuries. He's a promoter of dozens of bachelor's, master's, and a few PhDs. He has intensive, interdisciplinary scientific cooperation with the Tomistic community of KUL. He's the president of the Catholic Intelligence Club. Prof. Czesław Strzeszewski in Lublin. He was a city councilman for many years in Lublin. Between 2010 and 2018, he served as Vice-President of the City Council of Lublin. Currently he is Vice-President of the Sejm of the Lublin Voivodeship. Between 2007 and 2011 he was a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. He is the editor-in-chief of the KIK Social Books, a well-known political and historical publicist. For years, he has maintained professional contacts with the Institute of National Education. In 2010 he became a member of the Knighthood of Jasna Góra, the God-parent. He is the author of numerous scientific and popular scientific publications in the field of interwar history and recent history. 11 November 2015 Mieczysław Ryba was awarded by the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda with the Knight's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland for outstanding merits in spreading knowledge about the latest history of Poland, for achievements in scientific and teaching work. Currently he is a member of the Chapter of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland. Prof. Fish is very involved in various social, local and national initiatives. On 27 and 28 April 2021, he became involved in the work of the Programme Council of the Self-Governmental Economic Congress, the 2nd Forum of the Regions of the Tri-marine. He is a member of the Council of the Museum of Memory and Identity. St. John Paul II in Toruń and since June 2020 a member of the Programme Council of the Institute of National Thought Heritage. Roman Dmowski and Ignacy Jan Paderewski. In November 2020, he was appointed chairman of the advisory team at the Minister of Education and Science. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Prof. Mieczysław Ryba is a good candidate for a member of the College of National Remembrance Institute - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u236	Thank you, sir. Mr Bartosz Rydlinski will present the candidacy of Mr Krzysztof Śmishek on behalf of the Group of Members of the Coalition Club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the candidacy of Dr. Bartosz Rydlinski - whom I warmly welcome to the Seym Gallery [[Applause]] - as a member of the National Remembrance Institute College. Dr. Rydlinski was born in 1985. He graduated from the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in Warsaw in his master's and doctoral studies in politics. In 2013, he defended his doctoral thesis on Naomi Klein's political thought under the guidance of Prof. Dr. Hab. Angel Dylus. In 2014, he served as a visiting researcher at Georgetown University, Washington. He's a scholar of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. In 2016, he served as visiting schooler at the University of Silesia in Opava in the Czech Republic. He is an assistant at the Institute of Politics and Administration of the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in Warsaw. He is also a member of the Council of the Economic and Social Department of the University. He is a member of the Polish Teachers' Association. He conducts classes with students such as state and political science and the social history of Europe. He is co-founder and inventor, as well as President of the Centre Foundation since 2017. Ignacy Daszyński. Dr. Rydlinski's institute has been active in the field of social democratic memory policy for over 10 years. The Institute also organized the social celebration of Daszyński's year in 2016, and Dr. Rydliński was personally responsible for the co-organization of these celebrations. These are actions that should be carried out by the Institute of National Remembrance, not by bottom-up initiatives. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. The Daszyński Centre was also involved in the construction of the monument of the first Prime Minister of independent Poland, which was unveiled on 11 November 2018 in Warsaw. Dr. Rydliński was the inventor of the discussion cycle - 30 years of the Third Polish Republic - a critical perspective between 4 June 2019 and 4 June 2020. The aim of the initiative was to give the floor to those who were also forgotten during the systemic transformation. Dr. Rydliński is a representative of a young generation of Polish researchers who deal with fundamental issues for the history of Poland. The role of the Polish Socialist Party in regaining independence by Poland in 1918 is often forgotten, also by the Institute of National Remembrance. The same applies to the fight against possessive violence or the 1905 revolution. Directed by Dr. Rydlinski's center for years, he has not stopped fighting to change this state of affairs. The presence of Dr. Rydlinski at the College of the Institute of National Remembrance will be a good example of the ideological and research diversity of this institution. Dr. Rydlinski will be the voice of the young generation at the Institute of National Remembrance. Let me remind you that he is the youngest candidate in the history of this institution to be a member of the College of IPN. During the hearing of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, Dr. Rydliński was the only one who presented a comprehensive idea and programme of his presence and activities at the College of IPN. First of all, the full historical perspective - not selective, not hagiographical in the context of those who are today's ideological pets of power, but full truth, e.g. about the first solidarity, without fraud, without lying and without stinging. During the committee meeting Dr. Rydliński also said very clearly: There is no history of Poland without the history of Stanisław Mikołajczyk, without telling about the achievements of peasant and folk activists. [[Applause]] Do you know that over the past few decades Stanisław Mikołajczyk has seen one, in words: one, publication published by IPN? Do you know that the democratic left-wing activists did not get any research from the IPN? So, first of all, deceiving history and decisively changing the direction of research. Second, an overview of HR. In recent months and years, the public opinion has shaken information about the activists of the extreme right who are employed in high positions in the IPN. Mr. Grenuch's case, directing him to run a branch in Wroclaw, caused not only a domestic but also an international scandal. This is the man who called raising his hand in a Nazi gesture a harmless act. Unfortunately, the IPN has become a rationalist of extreme ideology and a storage room for nationalists. This is definitely not Dr. Rydlinski's vision. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the Left has always stood and will stand in the position of liquidation of the Institute of National Remembrance. Yeah, we're not changing our sentences. But as long as the Institute of National Remembrance exists, this institute... [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u238	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Now I ask Mr Tadeusz Wozniak to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Candidates! I was honoured to present the opinion of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the proposal to appoint a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. Your Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, addressed these proposals to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 12 January 2022 for an opinion. The Commission held its meeting on 25 January. After presenting the candidates they had a self-presentation, then there were very many questions and answers of the candidates. It should be stressed that the answers of one of the candidates met with applause, I am talking about Prof. Mieczysława Ryba. The committee members then voted on the various candidates. Thus, 11 people voted in favour of the candidacy of Prof. Mieczysław Pisła, against - 9 people, with no abstentions, and 10 people did not vote. Dr Bartosz Rydlinski's candidacy was voted against by three people, 11 against, 6 abstentions, and 10 abstentions. In view of the above, the committee decided to give a positive opinion on the candidacy of Prof. Mieczysław Fish and to take a negative opinion on Mr Bartosz Rydlinski's candidacy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u240	Thank you, sir. As there are reports, I propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Over the past six years, the IPN has been so deeply degraded that it is hard to believe that it will be able to repair this institution in its present form. The last six years have been a slippery slope. The last six years have been from disaster to disaster. Dr. Hab's proposed candidacy. Mieczysława Fish will deepen this dramatic situation in this institution. We had, ladies and gentlemen, for the last six years, a nationalist and anti-Semitic, who led the Wrocław branch, which commemorated the pogroms of the Jews with marches with a high hand. We were gonna question the Jedwabn crime. We were supposed to stop the vetting of a secret co-worker, Richard. Your co-worker. He's a longtime president of the Silver Company. [[Applause]] And now very important information. We all thought Kuja was gone. No! Kuja 2 December 2021 was appointed to the Polish Gas Company for the Supervisory Board. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But that's not all. Esbeck's company... Like the Left... ...who bought Pegasus for the CBA, won 28 orders in IPN in the last six years. It supports software, proprietary collection... [[It's not about that.]] ...all the information. 10 million were spent on a company of former ubeks, an officer who worked for the intelligence service in 1971 and 1989. But who is Mr Mieczysław Ryba? First of all, he's a propagandist. She appears more often on TVP than Mrs. Danuta Holecka. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u242	Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska, Left. Please, sir, yes. [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Jarku, what do you say?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, on behalf of the Left, I wanted to explain why we are applying for Dr. Bartosz Rydlinski's candidacy and, at the same time, we are in favour of the liquidation of the institution, which is the Institute of National Remembrance. We're consistent, we're getting there, and that's our position. Same as the National Media Council. It is an institution which should not have been set up, but has been set up legally. Not like the National Judicial Council. Therefore, on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, we decided to present the candidacy of Dr Bartosz Rydlinski, who was presented by my previous speaker, my colleague Krzysztof Śmishk. The IPN is an institution that needs to be closed down because it politicalizes memory. Memory of the tragic past of Poland, and these issues that concern the history of the left, the history of the independence of the left... Yes, it was the left who won independence in Poland. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] First row... Don't laugh. This is very inhospitable and inappropriate in relation to the first Prime Minister of Poland. Do you know who it was? Ignacy Daszyński, marshal. The government of Ignacy Daszyński is historically the first Polish, truly Polish government of the independent Republic. And the right hand, the right hand shamefully embellishes this character. We've already talked about this. The IPN did nothing to commemorate Ignacy Daszyński's figure in the previous term, when we celebrated the century of independence of Poland. [[Applause]] It was the left who had to insist that Ignacy Daszyński should be included among the founding fathers of the independent Republic. Because the right, because Law and Justice, so patriotic, about this great Polish figure whose portrait hangs in the hallway... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u244	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Institute of National Remembrance requires an urgent restoration of pluralism of views, a universal look at history, also taking difficult and painful matters in our history, which, as we know, is a lot. But also according to our club PSL - the coalition of Polish IPN requires a break with the monopoly on history, which was introduced there by the current authority. Therefore, in our opinion, Dr Bartosz Rydlinski will be a good candidate for the College of National Remembrance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u246	Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Seym arithmetic indicates that today you will join the college of Professor Mieczysław Ryba. On this occasion, it is worth recalling a certain idea, which was created a few years ago in the back of the governing camp, and unlike most of the ideas of this camp, it seemed quite meaningful. This is what Professor Zybertowicz was talking about, namely the narrative safety machine, the so-called. MaBeNie, a construction that would create some Polish soft power abroad. In this regard, he wrote an interesting text, among others. Mr Kowal in 2018 And this discussion actually took place about the so-called. MaBeNy, sir. You've made such a lyric in your time. There was this discussion. I think that it is the task of the IPN to be an institution that not only focuses on research, on internal information policy, but also on an institution that will operate outside, will fight for the good name of Poland, and even this policy will build, because today we do not have such a policy. Unfortunately, after these six years of such image policy, we also do not have a historical one in this regard. I cannot fail to comment on what was raining on the left side of the room, because, ladies and gentlemen of the Left, if you want to fight for the deceiving of history, do not lie to her first from this speaker. Daszyński did not undertake the task of forming the government. The first Prime Minister was Moraczewski, who resigned immediately to Paderewski. I also wanted to say that the left in Poland also in the context of 1918, 1920 and 1921 has an ambiguous card... [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] ...because not only the communists greeted the Red Army with flowers, but also some PPS wheels. That was the truth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u248	Mr Paweł Zalewski, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! How much in recent years the IPN has gone away from its noble idea, from its noble purposes for which it has been called. Let us remind you that the idea is to restore to our Polish consciousness facts of the 20th century, which in the period of the Polish People's Republic were either forgotten or falsified. Today, the IPN is one of many political instruments in the hands of the ruling camp, and the governing camp has not stopped its plans to make it a kind of historical police. It is an instrument on a very important issue, which stems from the PiS plan, to transform not only the Polish state, but also the Polish identity, to enter the Polish soul, to violate what is most sensitive to each of us, i.e. our identity, to shape it according to our own vision. She was described by your President in a 2011 book. The idea is to base the Polish identity on the Church and ideology of the cursed soldiers. The problem is that this action, this state policy very dangerously divides Poles. It really divides Poles into two nations, which have two different identities. And today Poles, as never before, face these challenges that we have, expensive, epidemics, threats from the East, need cohesion. Not political uniformity, because it is wrong in democracy, but national cohesion so that we can base our values on the same issues. Well (Bell) IPN counters... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u250	Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Rozenek, Polish Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are two institutions that are flagship for law and justice: they are CBA and IPN. Both institutions need to be wound up. Why you have to take out the IPN, I could talk till morning. But I'm just going to talk about one example. On 16 December 2016, the Repressive Act was introduced, resulting in the death of 62 Polish state officers and 40 thousand. of them are experiencing a tragedy just because of the IPN. Because it was the four scientists from the IPN that prepared this bill. Then it was the IPN that sent proscription letters to the Pension and Rent Department to rob these people from their pensions. And it is the IPN that is co-responsible for this parliamentary crime. That is why today we should not discuss complementing the National Remembrance Institute, but how to eliminate it, because it has led to the misery of many people and their families. It is General Gromosław Czempinski who receives letters from the IPN printed by the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. [[Voice from the room: And rightly so.]] It's a terrible shame for this House to make such a bill. Grażyna Biskupska, an inspector who risked her life to defend Polish citizens, receives letters printed by the National Remembrance Institute - Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals. And today we want to send more people to this criminal institution? Shame! We need to talk today about how to eliminate this institution... [[The voice from the room: It's a scandal!]] ...and how to bring to the prosecution the person responsible for this parliamentary crime. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u252	Mr Marek Ast, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, of course, supports the candidacy of Professor Mieczysław Fish. It is an excellent candidate whose knowledge and activity in many fields, including social activities, will be a great reinforcement for the Institute of National Remembrance. On the other hand, of course, we will vote against Dr. Rydlinski's candidacy, which supports the disgraceful request of the liquidation of the Institute of National Remembrance, an institution deserved for the Republic of Poland, which opens modern history of Poland to us, often painful. The Institute is now serving to explain these painful cards from our history. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u254	Thank you. The discussion is closed. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights gave a positive opinion on Mr Mieczysław Pisła's candidacy and on Mr Bartosz Rydlinski's negative candidacy as a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Prosecution of Crime against the Polish Nationals. Two applications were submitted for the position of a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. Therefore, the Sejm will vote on this issue by means of a voting device, using the function of this device to make a choice from the list. [[Game in the O.R.]] I would like to ask your comments for a moment. I'm presenting the voting rules... We also have Members voting remotely, so please be quiet for a moment. I am presenting voting rules using a function that allows you to choose from the list. After the voting is ordered, the names and names of the candidates will appear on the display. The list of candidates shall be in alphabetical order. To vote for a candidate, you must indicate his name. The confirmation of the selection will appear in the selection box. [[Room voice: I'm reporting...]] After this point, sir. To change the decision, remove the selection of the candidate and the confirmation mark next to the name will disappear. Upon selection, your decision should be approved by pressing the "confirm and send" button. This is tantamount to the final vote and therefore to the lack of possibility to change the decision. Not to mark any candidate and press the confirmation and send button is tantamount to voting against all candidates. Let's move on to the vote. The Sejm, in accordance with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, elects members of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee for the pursuit of Crimes against the Polish Nationals by a majority of votes. I would like to remind you that Mr Mieczysław Pisła and Mr Bartosz Rydliński have been nominated as a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. Once the vote is started, the list will be placed in alphabetical order on the voting device. Let me remind you that only one candidacy can be supported. Again, I remind you that pressing the "confirm and send" button is tantamount to final decision making, so please use this button as the last one. We'll proceed with the vote. I am now asking you, ladies and gentlemen, to decide on the appointment of a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. Has the problem with this card been... Not yet? Is everything okay now? The vote is closed and the results are requested. 450 Members voted. Individual candidates received the following number of votes: Mr Mieczysław Ryba - 238, Mr Bartosz Rydliński - 95. The Sejm, by majority, appointed Mr Mieczysław Ryba as a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Prosecution of Crime against the Polish Nationals. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens submitted a request to supplement the agenda with points: - Information from the Minister for National Defence and the Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Re-examination of the Air Accident on the functioning of the subcommittee, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of State Assets, Minister of National Defence, Minister of Justice on the creation of a structured system of seat casts in commercial companies with the participation of the State Treasury (including in companies dependent on companies with the participation of the State Treasury) based on political criteria of dependence on the most important persons in the country, without the actual and actual competences of persons employed in the above mentioned. entities in the years 2016-2021, - First reading of the parliamentary bill amending the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of We proceed with the vote on the motion for information of the Minister of National Defence. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 217 - for, 232 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We are voting on the proposal for information on the cast of positions in commercial companies with the participation of the State Treasury. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 220 for, 231 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed to the vote on the proposal for the first reading of the parliamentary bill amending the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? I know it's not here yet. It hasn't shown up yet. I'm gonna say the same thing again in a second. Who's holding back? I'm reading again, ladies and gentlemen, the same vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal for the first reading of the parliamentary bill amending the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 198 - for, 245 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 1980). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the request in print 1980 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Before I announce the outcome of this vote, I would like to say that about an hour. There are still 21 meetings of the Convention and the Bureau. [[Voice from the room: When's the next one?]] We can do this remotely, but before the next sitting, please be ready. I'll give you a heads-up. Yeah, you have to listen. I am just telling you that there will be meetings of the Convention and of the Bureau around 3 p.m. 21. [[But is there a Sejm meeting tomorrow or not?]] No, I don't have a Sejm meeting tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't delivered the results yet. 449 Members voted. 431 - for, 2 - against, 16. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. That's where we ended the vote. Thank you. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 57 hrs. 18 min 01]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information on the negative effects of the cost and the Polish Order on the functioning of Polish small and medium-sized entrepreneurs will be considered, which is proposed by the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative and Greens. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 5 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 5 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please, Mrs Joanna Senyshin, a formal proposal. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the PPS Group, I would like to make a formal request to include in the Seniors' Convention the inclusion on the agenda if there was an extraordinary meeting next week, a government draft law on the protection of the life and health of citizens during the pandemic. Prime Minister Morawiecki the day before yesterday argued that such a project is almost ready, that only at night will various comments of the democratic opposition be introduced. This project was to be presented to the Members yesterday. Unfortunately, the project wasn't there yesterday, even though Marshal Witek also said - at my request - that it would be such a project in a moment. We are therefore waiting for this project. We'd like to get to know him (the bell), even before... Not at the last minute, just to have time this week. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u256	Thank you very much, Member. It wasn't a formal conclusion. This may be taken into account at the Convention meeting. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Maria Małgorzata Janyska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u257	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Small businesses die quietly. These are the words of desperate Polish entrepreneurs, which we heard during the debate last week, entrepreneurs who, together with families and employees, developed their companies and built Polish GDP over the last decades. These are the words of entrepreneurs, which supposedly was to promote and support in the development of the government of the United Right, a team which economic patriotism, the terms: national, Polish had and has on its lips and banners. As it turns out: only on the lips and only on the banners. Yesterday you showed this hypocrisy clearly, rejecting the Senate's amendments, and earlier an amendment in the Sejm, which was supposed to save Polish entrepreneurs from drastic increases in gas prices. And it was all about getting them through a difficult time. You have made dark times for Polish entrepreneurship. 50% entrepreneurs are pessimistic, thinking about the future. They lost their sense of security, they say that every day for them is a struggle for survival. It is common to think that once again - as in the Polish People's Republic - the enemy of power is hardworking and entrepreneurial people, just as at that time the symbolic enemy was the badger. Pandemic, inflation, bouldering business costs are an overwhelming burden that people have been facing for months. This pandemic has caused problems in terms of liquidity, competitiveness, less sales of goods or services. They experienced problems related to financial costs, capital charges in the form of an increase in interest on loans, loans or other transactions. What kind of cynic it takes to kill companies in such circumstances, introducing so-called. Polish Lad. What kind of cynic does it take to make this chaos and to call it lawless? This is the height of cynicism, as if you didn't know the meaning of words at all. This disorder, called for the appearance of the Polish Łady, caused that companies had yet - and it was from day to day - additional responsibilities and costs, such as the preparation of accounting systems, double accounting, adjustment to new realities, which still do not know what they would be, because at this meeting of the Sejm we witnessed changes in the law concerning the Polish Łódź, and the next day - changes to changes to changes. The employees of the Legislative Office of the Sejm again stressed in the committee that these changes are unclear, that these are further solutions - and it is not known whether they will have an effect - which will again be unknown to entrepreneurs. We still have to add the so-called. labour costs and wage pressures, which are always a normal phenomenon, are accompanied by galloping inflation and higher tax costs. And yet the health contribution is de. In fact, it's a tax and we can't say it's anything else. What does the government do? He pretends again, pretends to do something, that it's independent of him, that it's dependent on some other external factors and other people who've been obsessed with this government. Meanwhile, anti-inflationary measures are late and insufficient. While other countries have implemented them, we have heard that there is no danger. In November, the President of the National Bank of Poland announced that inflation would fall and nothing dramatic was happening, and in a month's time, in December, ladies and gentlemen, food prices jumped dramatically, almost 9%. And it could have been avoided. But now, to cover your inability, you're doing something else that is absolutely disgusting. You put the President of the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection in front of Poles in the situation of speculators of entrepreneurs, which you make responsible for bringing down prices. The President of the UOKiK announces that they will be branded if they do not lower prices. You also organize a system of reporting on such entrepreneurs, you threaten with 10% turnover penalties. Don't you really know if you're pretending that you don't know how VAT is used in trade and services? After all, everyone gets information on tax receipts about the VAT rate. Don't you know if you're pretending that you don't know that the price consists of all the costs that have galloped drastically in recent months and continue to gallop. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The VAT reduction is still not in a position to undo these increases. Your inability and mess already result in an increase in the number of suspended business activities and the amount of information from entrepreneurs that they will close their companies, will fire employees. And consumers will pay for everything. Small businesses fall quietly, but they won't forget this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u258	Thank you very much, Member. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Arthur Sobonia. You're welcome. [[Today's the debut.]] [[I don't know who I am, but I'm gonna say it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u259	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland we have 4.3 million businesses, including 99.9%... [[99,8%.]] ... are micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. These companies are generating 55% today. added value and over 2/3 jobs. In recent years in Poland each year the number of companies that fell was less than the number of companies that formed. E.g. in 2020 it was twice as high. Today, if we look at the monthly economic index that is being prepared by the Polish Economic Institute and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, we see an improvement in mood among all Polish entrepreneurs, which obviously does not mean that entrepreneurs today do not face new challenges, which are related to pandemics, and with increasing costs above all energy, but also work and the availability of employees themselves. However, companies, including the smallest ones, want to hire in Poland today and the first quarter of this year is proof that they employ or plan to hire new workers. [[The first quarter of this year.]] If we look at the statistics of companies that applied for liquidation in January, they represent 0.82 of all active entities. That's 21%. less than the average number of liquidations over the same period, ladies and gentlemen, in the years 2018 to 2021. As far as suspensions are concerned, this is 1.1 and such values have historically been recorded in previous years. In 2013, 2015 was e.g. 28,000. companies. Of course, we are doing everything we can to ensure that anyone who starts an economic activity can continue this economic activity as long as possible. Therefore, there are shields, hence there is this enormous effort to maintain liquidity and jobs. We have a situation today where 4.5% We have just set aside GDP to save businesses. These are anti-inflationary shields related to the prices of raw materials, fuels, electricity, gas, heat, food, fertilisers. There is no such package today in the countries of the European Union, except Poland. And if we looked at the consumer price index, we could estimate that the impact of both discs is minus 2.9 percentage points at the time of their introduction, on average - 1,7 percentage point. Of course, there are also tariffs for specific customers, for social users. That's what we're working on right now. If we looked at inflation last year, we had inflation close to the inflation target at the beginning of the year, then there was this madness of prices on world markets, above all energy prices, chain breakage and the impact of the post-pandemic situation on inflation worldwide. If we were, for example. they looked at and compared themselves with other European countries in the same period, they looked at December last year, it would turn out that this increase was even lower in Poland year by year than in other countries. At the same time, the purchasing power of our salaries is increasing. In the first half of the year it is 8% higher than it was a year before, in real terms it is 4.2%. This, of course, increases wages. The central bank has raised interest rates four times, so it has a more restrictive policy. At the same time, we use EU funds for inflation purposes: the Smart Development Loan Fund is already PLN 3.5 billion, the Businessmax guarantees that allow companies to use this instrument, the European Social Fund funds. In the tax section of the Polish Government we have, of course, reliefs, which are intended to boost innovation and investment. It's about expansion relief, robotics, terminals, innovative employees, R &amp; D, prototypes, sponsorship relief. We also have, of course, a situation in which we use new instruments, i.e. we are expanding Estonian CIT, which in fact causes companies to invest all the funds they have worked out, or minimum CIT, or something that will make large foreign companies actually taxed in Poland (the bell) because they have not so far. There are a number of solutions that we are introducing - of course this is the time pressure, 5 minutes - and we have already introduced for small and medium-sized enterprises. On the other hand, I would like to say something, if possible, to your marshal, which needs to be improved and which we will discuss in dialogue and with the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises, and with business organisations themselves. Surely the issue of remanent differences is to be improved, which is an obvious necessity. These lines... [[It was obvious all along.]] Although, Commissioner, if, of course, there was enough time, I would explain the situation... Step to the end, please. You'll have another five minutes later. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Artur Soboń: ...in which this stick always has two ends if we use this maybe not a very good comparison. [[I'd be happy to explain my practice to you.]] But there is certainly more to the demands that entrepreneurs make to us when it comes to the tax system that brings changes after 1 January 2022. In the dialogue with entrepreneurs, we will prepare such a package of changes. [[Are you listening to businessmen?]] There will also be depreciation, so I can say, please be calm. If you want to cooperate, we can do it together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[So you're gonna listen to us, Minister?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u260	Thank you very much. And please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology, Mrs Olga Semeniuk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u261	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Small and medium-sized companies operate loudly and we are proud of it as Poles. They operate loudly in Poland and abroad. A little statistics. We work at the Ministry of Development and Technology... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Trying to jamm me, you're not gonna jamm the contents anyway. At the Ministry of Development and Technology we work with entrepreneurs and for entrepreneurs. We are working on further solutions to help entrepreneurs in this difficult period of pandemic. The solutions that we have been able to implement have already had concrete results. At the outbreak of a pandemic in Europe, we were all concerned about the economic impact of a significant fall in GDP, an increase in unemployment and a decline in economic activity. Thanks to perseverance, determination of Polish entrepreneurs and unprecedented scale of aid for over PLN 240 billion we managed not to achieve what you thought. In the period January-September 2021, the financial results of the companies examined were higher than those obtained a year earlier. Support for entrepreneurs in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic. We have launched a support system for entrepreneurs and employees through dialogue. It was constantly adapted to the changing epidemic situation and the introduction of restrictions. Initially, support was addressed to all entrepreneurs, which was justified by the general nature of the sharpening and loss of economic performance. The aid scheme was then adapted to the next wave of pandemics. We have introduced additional criteria, which have led to the targeting of support to sectors directly affected by business restrictions. [[Time is running a little faster.]] Minister Soboń mentioned all the reliefs that we made under the Polish Order. These are prototype reliefs for automation, robotics. But it is also worth pointing out that the Ministry of Development and Technology had a dialogue in the Council of Social Dialogue and the results are really impressive. The Council Office provided support for more than 112 meetings within the Social Dialogue Council, attended by 3532 people, ladies and gentlemen. Most of them were representatives. Small and medium-sized companies. The Ministry of Development and Technology is also in constant contact with the spokesperson of small and medium-sized companies. 11 plenary meetings of the Councils, 10% Bureau meetings, 4 meetings of the RDS bureau secretaries, attended by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. It was there that the topics related to the Polish Ład were discussed. Okay. 97% crisis aid has been provided to small and medium-sized enterprises, ladies and gentlemen. Wholesale and retail trade, repair of motor vehicles, including inter alia motorcycles, but also construction-related industries. PFR shield. From the PFR 1.0 financial shield program for small and medium-sized companies we redirected the amount of PLN 61 billion, ladies and gentlemen. These are companies that employ over 3 million employees. From the PFR 2.0 shield - support of over PLN 7 billion for companies that employ more than 357 thousand. enterprises. These are business data, because this is often a charge that large-scale small and medium-sized companies are closing down. Ladies and gentlemen! The numbers aren't lied to, we can check them in the CEIDG balance sheet. The analysis of the number of active economic activities indicates a sustained positive balance sheet of companies registered in CEIDG as at 3 January 2022. Given the number of closed-down activities for the years 2016 and 2019, the number of closure applications is very similar despite the 2 years of intensive pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen! About all the reliefs, ARPs, PARPs, PAIHs, all the institutions that participate in the preparation of programs of small and medium-sized companies - I will gladly talk about it, I can, but I am limited in time. I will also tell you about the legislative work that is being carried out in the context of the operation of small and medium-sized enterprises. Family Foundation, employee shareholder, amendment of the anti-zator law, very important in order to liquidate the functioning of individual industries, amendment of the Act on CEIDG and PIP. A new solution for crafts, ladies and gentlemen, this government has adopted a program for small and medium-sized companies. [[In the slides.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would of course like to conclude with a reference to what we see in Internet space. Poland Donald Tusk, ladies and gentlemen, was poor Poland. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: How about now?]] It is Poland where Poles and Poles were looking for work without success. It is Poland in which wages hit man's dignity. It is Poland in which the development of the investment concerned only your establishment. It is Poland, in which family dinner in a restaurant or holiday trip to Poland remained in the sphere of dreams, not actions to be carried out next weekend. [[Do you know how much pizza costs right now?]] It is Poland in which Poles decided to leave the country, because the door to development in Poland was closed for them. The average wage was 5 zlotys. [[Voice from the room: Polska PiS.]] [[Voice from the hall: You're full of shit.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The work of a government representative for small and medium-sized enterprises is effective and is not based on filmmaking such as Donald Tusk in a bakery. [[Your propaganda of success... a manor.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For the last two years, I have traveled all over Poland twice, I have been in all voivodships. I dated small and medium-sized companies, talked about their needs (the bell), fears and plans. Therefore, today my visits to entrepreneurs and conversations with them are conducted something natural, not surprising, as shown in Donald Tusk's films. [[Voice from the gym: Come with us.]] [[...get out of the limo, get out of the ministry.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Real power, real power, real power, real power, real power, real power, real power, real power, real power, real power, real power, real power, real power, real power, real power, real power, real power, real power, There's always a good time for you to join us. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Go see the businessmen.]] [[And the income and the income do you know?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u262	I wonder if we will see a time when we will not be in the statements of the representatives of Law and Justice heard the names of Tusk ten times in every speech. You're welcome... [[The voice from the courtroom: But your marshal is jamming...]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have a very interesting subject to make. I ask you to remain calm. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? If not, I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u263	Dear Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The most valuable product in Poland is gas, CO2 and it is fuel, it is oil. [[Voice from the room: And fertilizers are expensive.]] We know that, Minister, after a reduction in excise duty, the price of fuel fell by 20 and 30 gr. We also know that the government is taking next steps, reducing VAT on fuel. My question is, how much will the price of fuel fall? 'Cause we remember the times of one of the prime ministers whose name I'm not going to mention 'cause your marshal told me not to mention that name... [[She asked you not to embarrass yourselves at least in this.]] He was talking about the government having no effect on the rampant inflation. That there is no possibility, there is no button that can reduce the price. The government of Mateusz Morawiecki takes action and we have the cheapest fuel, the cheapest oil in Europe. [[Voice from the room: Government has influence.]] [[You gotta be kidding me.]] One of the cheapest ones, because the right actions are being taken. Actions that are for Poland and for Poles. The government of the Civic Platform - we remember, the salary per hour is 5 PLN. The fuel price in 2012 is over 6 PLN. [[Voice from the room: What is purchasing power?]] [[4,20, because Morawiecki...]] And we remember from the footage when the Owl was told, didn't we? At the Owl's. When it was said that fuel could now be 7 zlotys. These are the words of your Prime Minister. [[Voice from the hall: It's Morawiecki.]] That's how you ruled Poland. You didn't care about Poland. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] You didn't care about Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. You had two-digit unemployment. [[Voice from the room: You're lying!]] The government of Mateusz Morawiecki (The Bell) works to make Poles easier to go through this difficult period. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, there'll be a spot on the list.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u264	Thank you. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. [[Voice from the hall: It was me, Jabrzebek.]] I'm asking you to calm down. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u265	Dear Marshal! First of all, Poland Tusk is money from the European Union. Not a single euro has brought Morawiecki yet. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Poland Tusk is a conversation with Poles and Morawiecki Poland is a bowl of rice. Morawiecki's Poland is a trip to Madrid, [[Applause]] When small entrepreneurs need help and support. Morawiecki's Poland is Polish PiS, it's Polish expensive. Small businesses die quietly. And information about how they die is information from the Central Information Register on Business Activity. In 2020 in March alone, 48,000. companies have closed down their business. How was 2021? $274,000. He's applied, and in December, you haven't counted them yet. Because it's $38,000. Conclusions in December. You guys helping? On credit, you're helping. You can't talk to customers. You have Polish Load, it is a Polish bubel and a Polish bubel for entrepreneurs. There is no support for entrepreneurs. Small businesses die quietly because you don't help them. We want to say: 19.52% - ZUS contribution, high inflation, high general costs, 300- and even 600-percent increase in gas prices. When are you gonna make a good shield for the entrepreneurs? Because what you've done with the Polish Ład is a bubble that we're improving to this day. Minister, let's do this. Minister Semenuk, I have this voice because you yelled at us - and we remember a bowl of Moravian rice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shhawk and mirabelle.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u266	Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u267	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Since January, entrepreneurs have been overwhelmed not only by electricity and gas prices but also by legal problems. There are so many changes in the rules and they are so chaotic that tax firms do not deal with them on an ongoing basis, let alone small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Many entrepreneurs, Minister, believe that in an inflationary crisis, it will be less damaging for Poland to restore the old state of law than to pursue an unprepared tax revolution without good law, without public consultation, without adequate vacathio legis. The communication between entrepreneurs and the Ministry of Finance and the Social Security Office is also very critical, from which taxpayers asking for specific guidelines are dismissed - or simply simply cannot reach them in the world. That is why entrepreneurs are presenting two specific questions through me. First: Will the government have the courage to admit its legislative failure and postpone the implementation of the Polish Government to 1 January 2023? Second question: How do the Ministry of Finance and the Social Security Office intend to change communication with entrepreneurs and taxpayers about the Polish Government and how does this communication look like? Minister, please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u268	Thank you, sir. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u269	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Ministers! What are the consequences of this tax chaos, which introduces the so-called "tax chaos." PiS disorder, there is no need to explain in detail. After the number hastily, on the knee of the changes being prepared and retreating from thoughtless, unwise, even compromising proposals, one can see how this chaos caused panic, even in the ranks of rulers. In conjunction with the rise in energy prices, this bureaucratic chastisement is crushing Polish, especially small and medium-sized, entrepreneurs. Isn't it time to reach out to them? We, the Polish Coalition, have two concrete proposals. I would like to ask the ministers whether they intend to use our proposals and implement these solutions. Namely, the first point is the suspension of subsidies granted from the State Development Fund to companies whose activities were restricted by regulations, regulations governing the pandemic situation, for the next period. Isn't it time that instead of requiring reporting, returning money, settling even with the number of people employed, give a few months, or maybe even a whole year, breathing? Secondly, isn't it time to introduce - the proposal for a bill is submitted to the Marshal's staff - so-called. voluntary ZUS for entrepreneurs? At a time like this, a voluntary ZUS would be a real help. And instead of helping me, what do you suggest? You propose imposing an obligation and punishing entrepreneurs who will not inform about your propaganda, i.e. that the price has been reduced (the bell) by a reduction in VAT. This is responsibilities, not helping small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in difficult times for them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u270	Thank you. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u271	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The topic is of course very important, small and medium-sized companies are in an extremely difficult situation - increases in costs associated with increases in components, increases in labour costs, increases in prices of energy carriers, electricity, gas, complicated tax system, which is associated with Polish Ład. Instead of simplifying the already complicated tax system, you did everything you could to complicate it even more, and today you say they have to deal with it. There is no escape from such a feeling that the PiS today leads a systematic, planned action to destroy small and medium-sized Polish companies, because these kinds of burdens, which you are putting on today, do not lead to anything else. You must be aware of that, especially since the Minister said you were going there. If you drive and listen, you have heard many bitter words at your address. So-called. Polish Governance kills companies, and officials of the Ministry of Finance, instead of patching up these broken regulations, sit on Facebook, on Twitter and write various nonsense, spreading propaganda. Entrepreneurs from Bielsko-Biała are asking for help. 600 percent increase in gas charges. How are they supposed to stand it? I spoke to a Vistula entrepreneur last week. 100% increase in fees for accounting services. That's how complicated the system is. In Żywiec, representatives of the food industry, which works great, say that they will shut down production because they won't stand the cost, and today the smiling minister says you're talking. Start doing something, stop talking and start doing something. You say you talked, but what if you don't listen? Entrepreneurs come here. You don't even let them in for committee meetings. Minister! Single tribute, half-yearly vacathio legis are proposals presented by Poland 2050, Szymon Hołownia. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is whether you are even able to consider going on the road of legal facilitation and at least a six-month vacatio legis so that people can finally prepare for these changes and not be surprised every day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u272	Thank you, sir. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u273	Thank you, Marshal. The opposition tries to create a false picture at all costs that the government does not support entrepreneurs. So I wanted to ask: Is it true that the impossibility to cover entrepreneurs with a gas tariff is due to the... [[All these years you've been in charge, stop taking the blame.]] ...the Gas Directive 2009/73/EC and later the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union C-13/14? Is it true that the effect of this is, Minister, that the reduced tariff prices for gas cannot benefit micro, small and medium-sized enterprises today? [[A voice from the hall: Bullshit, a lie!]] Although the government has reduced CIT for small and medium-sized enterprises, the COVID shields have generated more than 200 billion profits for companies, that the government has reduced taxes, that at the moment there is a reduction in many taxes, such as VAT on natural gas, energy, food, etc.. [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] ...is still at all costs the rhetoric of the opposition, which wants to convince Poles that the government in this situation is helpless. You can't tell the Poles that. This is, for example, what Minister Semenuk presented today, this huge contribution of work and this enormous activity that the government has been presenting for a long time, for months... [[Voice from the hall: In Dwórczyk's e-mails.]] ...confirm that you will not tell Poles, entrepreneurs and poor people. [[Voice from the hall: All they have to do is go to the store.]] 'Cause all you could do was look for buttons that were supposed to bring relief to different groups at risk of rising prices. It was your prescription - looking for a button. And since you didn't find a button like that, you were raising VAT (the bell), raising health contributions, raising retirement age, etc. That was your prescription for inflation back then. [[Applause]] [[Do you go to the store, do you shop? How much is bread?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u274	Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u275	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Your voices and screams will not overshadow what Poles see on a daily basis. [[Voice from the room: You're screaming.]] This password is true about what Poles see today, [[Applause]] when they go into the store, what they buy, what they have to pay for, what bills they get. Minister! The lady in that bleacher said you talk to Poles, care for the weak, care for the families. That's your password, every day. So what do you do for the little ones? What do you do for micro, small and medium-sized companies, for those who need help today, because you gave them an increase in gas and energy prices by 100, 200, 300, 700% ? Today, of course, Minister, you support entrepreneurs, but those you rule. That's enough, you don't rule, you can't, because they're barely breathing. Today you direct 66 billion PLN to PGNiG. This company will get this kind of help in various forms. Yeah, it's a big company. Enough, 66 billion zlotys. How much is this company worth on the stock market today? 31 billion. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Both are about 32 billion. Two of these companies would buy us with that money. This is your help to these piers. That's what you have money for. That's 63 billion. Another 3 billion would be left for small and medium-sized enterprises. You care about the big ones. Little ones die quietly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your Poland is Poland of chaos, hypocrisy and incompetence, inflation and expensive. This is a picture of your Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u276	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u277	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Ministers, This debate is not about a dispute about the data of the Minister and the data of the CSO, whether more companies have died now or 6 years ago, because each such bankruptcy is a drama of individual families, it is for the local community that there is no clockmaker, bakery, shoe repair or blacksmith, because they cannot first cope with the rise in gas prices, energy and all taxes that so far affect them, including local taxes that do not depend on the State. However, this dispute must also be based on facts. The Polish Economic Institute says that according to REGON data in the first quarter of 2021, the company's bankruptcy has been highest in 2 years. 7629 companies have been registered, which is an increase of 18.7%. in relation to the corresponding quarter of 2020 As far as this bankruptcy is concerned, the biggest increase was, of course, for companies exposed to pandemics, i.e. gastronomy and hotels. There is also an increase in the costs of the activities that everyone is talking about here, but also the health contributions, the lack of access now to funds from the Fund for Reconstruction, the instability of tax regulations, that is particularly raised, bureaucracy. All this makes this sector, instead of being the driving force behind economic development, a very difficult situation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Our recipes do not prefer local, small businesses, and even vice versa - big companies, especially supermarkets. I would therefore like to ask the Minister a question. What instruments will be launched this year to protect the functioning of the small enterprises I mentioned? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u278	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u279	Dear Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I listened to the ministers' statements. I think we live in two different Polands. What you are talking about is Poland flowing into prosperity, milk and honey, while on the other hand we have Poland expensive. Just listen to what the Poles say. You're talking about dreams. In fact, Poles have dreams. They also have dreams of young people, dreams of their own apartments, and everyone wants them. You've started several programs. Question today: What's going on? It's a common cost. Building materials... If one of the young people was thinking about his own home, there's no chance today. Construction materials - several hundred percent. Steel, cement, lime, styrofoam - just a few. Construction carpenter - it went incredibly high. Today, these young people, who even started building, are experiencing drama. What do you think you're gonna do about it? There used to be a good program to support construction investments, a relief at PIT. I think we need to get back to that. In the near future, we will present a program to exempt building materials from VAT in individual construction, because it is today the only way to make those young people who have those dreams you are talking about... You say people had dreams before, but they weren't being fulfilled. Okay, now, let's get the dream of young people living in their own apartment. Help them, because if we do nothing about it, there is no chance (the bell) that a young man at this cost will build his own apartment. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the hall: You shouldn't have sold steelworks, cementworks and other companies.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u280	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Grammar, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u281	Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! One of the elements of this terrible disaster that affects Poles and Poles is communication, communication with your electorate, communication with entrepreneurs, with accountants, with staff, with anyone who pays taxes. This communication, instead of taking the form of official documents, is mainly based on Twitter or on the pages of the Ministry of Finance. You show Q&A, textbooks, but these textbooks are against the rules. On the PIT-2 form is e.g. It says you can deposit before your first paycheck. And the Minister advises: no, you can file it anytime you want, it won't have any consequences. The consequences are, of course, criminal and treasure, for the payer for the wrong payment of contributions. And such absurdity is today what is immense. E.g. The mid-class relief according to tax experts is individual, and according to the Ministry - of course on Twitter, so that no one takes responsibility for it - is common to both spouses. In addition, by the way, a way of checking the right to relief for the medium-sized cash register calls for revenge to heaven. Goldilocks crossing, all relief to return. I just spoke to a friend of Swede's, the owner of a major company. He says: with us tax changes are introduced 2 years earlier, before they start to apply, so that they can adapt their systems so that no one feels disappointed by the state. Minister of Finance Tadeusz Kościński has two fathers: Poland and England. I wonder if such a form of regulation would pass by in his second homeland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u282	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u283	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are talking about inflation and, as the opposition says, universally expensive. But if we are talking about inflation, it is important to remember and we should all be able to make this a long time ago - we have been talking about it for a good few months - ladies and gentlemen, inflation is the highest in most European countries, but also in the world, for decades. Whatever you want to sell, it's definitely not because of the PiS. I wish that we could have an impact on very many trials as Law and Justice. Nevertheless, I think that we do not yet have an impact on what is happening today in the United States, China or the euro area as a whole. I'm glad you're rooting for us. [[You should have spent more.]] But quite seriously, ladies and gentlemen, two very important things. Minister, the question to you is: increasingly galloping producer inflation in most European countries, but also in China. Our largest economic partner in the European Union, Germany - in December more than 24% of production inflation. China - also one of the highest readings in decades. It's a powerful economy. I wanted to ask how this could affect relations with the Polish economy as well. I wanted to ask you how raising ETS prices, but not just ETS prices, and how the European Union's entire climate policy affects the Polish economy. [[It's an original new thought.]] We hear it's already 60% today. electricity prices are the value of taxes, let's call it European. What is the prospect of an increase in this ETS? How will this affect the Polish but also the European economy? Please answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u284	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ministers! I am naturally optimistic, but President Costowniak, after what he just presented, beats me on my head. I just don't know where he gets the information that's supposed to make him feel better. I'm getting to the point. The tax system should be clear, transparent, so that the taxpayer can consciously choose the form of taxation. This is a fundamental condition for the citizen's confidence in the state. In the meantime, in the PiS state, it is quite the opposite. The introduced Polish Load brought great chaos and mess. Everyone's getting lost in it right now. Entrepreneurs have been charged huge costs: gas, electricity, raw materials and transport prices. There's been a lot of talk about it. They're depressed and desperate. What's next? How are they gonna handle this? What about the employees? What form of taxation should we choose if we do not know anything specifically? The Act contains many deliberate or unintended pitfalls for entrepreneurs which make it difficult for them to choose. A concrete example. When you roared, if the entrepreneur exceeds the revenue threshold, even in December, he will pay, attention, increased health premium not for December, but for the whole year. Isn't that a scandal? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[There's a scandal.]] And the inventory problem? If the annual inventory includes goods worth PLN 1 million and the trader sells these goods, he will not pay a health contribution on the amount of net income, but on the whole amount. If he sells the asset, he'll pay the same for the entire amount. It's just an absolute scandal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I'm asking if this is a planned action to liquidate small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. How can you kill a chicken that can handle golden eggs? High Izbo, companies die quietly. And it's time to realize that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u286	Thank you, Member. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. There's no envoy. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u287	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, and above all, the Ministers! I have one request. Get out of the ministry, leave Warsaw and go really to Poland: Horses, Turks, Gniezno. There, talk to voters, not here in Warsaw. Do you know what the actual situation in Polish companies is today? A lot of them work at 16 degrees because they can't afford gas bills. 18 degrees became a luxury in Polish companies. Bankruptcy in 2022 is feared by almost every fifth company. These are small and medium-sized entrepreneurs from the construction, service and transport industries. These are moods, Minister. I don't know where you got yours, but these came from a BIG InfoMonitor debtor registry. Real moods are that 19% Polish small and medium-sized companies are afraid of bankruptcy in 2022. And that's what you've led to, a steady economy, unstable prices, a gigantic increase in labour costs, production costs and unstable law. It's all the result of your six years of government. Today, small Polish companies are not in fact able to close their contracts a few years ago. Talk to them about the economic reality, not what's going on in your statistics. Because you have these statistics, like everything, faked. The effect of the Polish Order is, Minister, that in a moment Polish entrepreneurs will have to take loans to pay the health contribution. She'll even count on the inventory at the end of this year, because you made such a mistake that by definition of health contributions you even threw away the difference in inventory. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you can't manage the economy, just don't do it and let others do it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u288	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u289	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In contrast to the suggestion made in the topic of today's current information I want to say with all responsibility that Polish Load and other actions of our government are a number of good and expected solutions for years, thanks to which almost 18 million Poles will remain in their portfolios as much as 17 billion PLN. [[How do you want this responsibility?]] It is a large investment programme, a long-awaited tax reduction, as well as huge support for Polish families and regulations supporting the development of entrepreneurship and significant subsidies for local investment. It is also a far-reaching shielding and anti-inflationary action following the drastic rise in gas, heat and electricity prices caused, as we know, by actions in the east and by the European Union's firm climate policy. I would also like to ask if without government commitment of more than PLN 200 billion to support Polish entrepreneurs and to protect jobs, unemployment could be maintained at such a historically low level, which is almost the lowest in Europe and is just over 5%. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u290	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Krystyna Sibińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was going to ask a question, but after the communes of the Minister and the Minister, all I need to read is a message that appeared last week in Międzyrzeg in Lubuskie Voivodeship. Dear Customers! Dear Friends and Friends! For 35 years, our family has been baking bread, bread, yeast and other delicious things for you. We loved it. Our work was our passion. We started in 1988. My father, Jerzy Radziszewski, founded the bakery 35 years ago. We have always been committed to quality, craftsmanship and the best ingredients. We made the bread we wanted to eat. We survived better and harder times, never giving up quality because we knew you deserved a decent breakfast. Today we are forced to say goodbye to you. The 600% increase in gas prices makes us unable to maintain the company. We can't afford to pay 36,000 in one month's gas consumption. zł - 36 thousand.! It's not a mistake - not including all the other rising costs. We're sorry, we're sad, we're broken and we're bitter. Your bread has been the meaning of our lives for over three decades. It wasn't an easy decision, but we don't see a way to continue production. Thank you for the 35 years we have shared, for every purchase we have made over the years, for all the kindness mentioned. Sorry, thank you and invite you on Saturday 22 January 2022. This will be the last day of our business. Jadwiga and Przemysław Radziszewski. And it was the last day of their business. What do you say, Minister? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What do you say, Minister? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Go there to them, help them.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u292	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u293	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Government representatives! Polish companies, and mainly persons running single-member companies, are the group most affected by tax changes resulting from the Polish Order. The government should quickly prepare for them some changes that will alleviate the negative effects, among others. increased health contribution. There's not much time, a lot of companies might just not make it through it. The changes made are also strongly criticised by large companies and employers employing many workers. Large companies clearly point out that without updating the tax system's improvement, currently charging wages for hundreds or thousands of employees is a huge task, very expensive and difficult. The introduction of the amendment of the Income Tax Act within the framework of the Polish Governance for many large companies is additional expenses, going into several, and even in several tens of thousands of PLN. In the opinion of entrepreneurs, experts, officials - various officials, including yours - adjustments and improvements are necessary, changes in the Polish Lada. Because the tax system simply creates such confusion, it is so little readable, it is so opaque that its implementation, implementation is extremely difficult. It is time to make some changes and you can go to some facilities for those who have come to implement (the bell) your changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u294	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u295	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Dear Ministers, In 2020, the European Commission estimated that in 2030 the cost of CO2 allowances would be much lower than the current one. In the most radical scenario, the price for CO2 emissions was expected to reach EUR 65 in 2030 and the share of allowances costs in energy system costs. Only 4.4%. Today, the cost of a mission for 1 t CO2 is well over 87 euros. No one expected the ETS to have such a negative impact on energy prices in the European Union. I would like to remind you that the system is now functioning on the basis of principles which Poland signed by the then Prime Minister Donald Tusk at the European Council in October 2014. Can the ETS therefore be regarded as a European energy tax? Does the government intend to take any action to reform the system and to contribute to the fall in energy prices in the European Union? Addressing the opposition, I will say that your concern for the condition of the Polish economy, Polish entrepreneurship and Polish citizens is astonishing. Why didn't you show such concern when you had the opportunity to take action, which is when you were in charge? [[Voice from the room: There was no such crisis.]] Yeah, it wasn't. There wasn't a button like that... [[And somehow the gas was cheaper.]] ...which would regulate prices and inhibit inflation. We had a vibe, sorry, 'cause we had a vibe... [[Deflation was.]] ...we didn't have the money buried, and the money was gone and there wasn't. Criticize and scream from the platform everyone can. And I'm sorry I raised my voice because you won't let me finish. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u296	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u297	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I remember how you announced that you would lead Polish entrepreneurs, the Polish economy along the path of development. But the truth is, with all this expensive, horrendous price increases and your incompetence... [[That's right.]] ...many of them are not on the path of development, but on the path to bankruptcy. I've been with Mrs. Agnieszka lately, who's been running a bistro in the centre of my town for 30 years. She showed me her gas bills. So far, she's paid $2.5,000. zł. Do you know how much he's gonna pay now? 13 500 zlotys, this is an increase of 450%. You tell people you're giving shields, buying billboards, bragging about it. But the truth is, these shields are broken like a thrush, because Mrs. Agnieszka thanks to these shields will have a rise of only 400%, 10,000. zł. You have a gesture. [[Applause]] The truth is, besides, these entrepreneurs will have to pay more taxes because of this New Deal. That's what I call a PiS mess. To this will be higher electricity bills and at the same time there will be higher interest rates. Entrepreneurs who make investments will have to bear further costs. And this is supposed to be helping the entrepreneurs you're giving. The truth is, you didn't do anything to protect people like that from this crazy expensive thing. And the amendments that we have tabled and the proposals that would stop this rise in prices that would protect entrepreneurs from drastic increases in gas prices, you rejected yesterday. You voted against. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that is the truth about how you support Polish entrepreneurs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u298	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u299	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, that's right. We agree, I agree. [[Because you're irresponsible.]] The current is expensive and the gas is expensive, but you should ask the question: Why is it expensive? Why? [[Voice from the room: Ostrołęka.]] This is the result of the decision of Prime Minister Donald Tusk and the uncritical consent to the European Union's climate policy. [[Voice from the room: 7 years you're in charge.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, know this, and that's why you're using such manipulation and demagogy to cover... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Thank you, Marshal. But don't cover Donald Tusk's wines with that bell. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! The government takes quick and decisive action, which constitute aid mechanisms for Polish families, for Polish entrepreneurs, through excise reductions, VAT reductions on fossil fuels, energy. I wanted to ask if these are the patterns that we draw from other countries of the European Union... [[You're from Russia.]] ...in other countries, are they the ones who are taking the lead in these aid mechanisms? There's one more very important thing. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki also declared a reduction in VAT for fertilisers. As we know, farmers also suffer from this harmful policy of the Civic Platform from 2011 to 2015. [[In the cars, you'll leave.]] [[Voice from the hall: How about the minister of your...]] But, sir, I didn't bother you. The Prime Minister is lowering this VAT. For some farmers it is very beneficial, but for some it is de facto neutral. Question: "Is the government considering introducing subsidies to each tonne of fertiliser?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Minister, don't laugh at your friends.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u300	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the room: Minister, don't laugh at your colleague.]] But I ask you very much to remain calm, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Small businesses die quietly. But it's the PiS who's got it on his conscience because now he's actually gassing it. It gasses and it is not a laughing gas, as if one might think or as it seems, the Minister, looking after her self-absorbed situation. It gasses without masks and without shields from the horror price increases. And these are small businesses, mostly family ones. It is also an anti-family policy in this basic dimension, because for this reason Polish families suffer, who are customers of these micro-enterprises and often their employees and who lose their bread literally and figuratively. It is not true that there is no consent from the European Union to help. Public aid to small and medium-sized enterprises of the European Union is always possible, but it needs to be addressed sensibly, not to give money to your piers to cover the failure to manage. The PGNiG hole to be patched is PLN 30 billion. Just the hole that needs saving right now. That monopolist who doesn't really know how much gas he buys because it's a secret. After all, this gas price is indexed after three quarters, and the PGNiG raises immediately, which is actually reaching into our pockets and directly at gas prices, and via the budget that has to finance. What kind of cure do you have for this? It's purely propaganda. Tusk wines, Russian wines and Brussels wines. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But this propaganda fuel will not ignite any bakery furnace, nor will any house be heated, nor will any field be used. [[Applause]] [[Then you have to sell PGNiG?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u302	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to calm down. Mrs Barbara Bartus will speak. [[The voice from the hall: You sold the PGNiG.]] Ladies and gentlemen... Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u303	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ministers, The companies are scared. It's possible they're scared, if they can still hear your scaring, scaring, scaring, maybe they're scared. At least some of the companies that see that there might actually be problems. But just because you're yelling about it, you're not gonna yell that these gas prices or energy prices are Tusk's fault. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I do not want to repeat the Russian guilt, but also the European Commission's decision. [[Voice from the hall: Who's in charge?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'd suggest that the opposition... [[Voice from the gym: Yesterday you rejected.]] ...she made some concrete proposals, solutions. Because because of what you keep saying, you're presenting the bills, because of the yelling, the scaring, the ladies and gentlemen, you've already lost the 2015 election. In 2015, when we were doing programme conferences, we presented programs, your then finance minister, finance minister of the Civic Platform, outstanding financier Jan Vincent-Rostowski threatened that it was impossible to finance programming proposals of Law and Justice, among others. 500+, and that these programs will lead to the collapse of public finances. Reality has shown how wrong you were then, how wrong you are all the time. From the beginning of the programme until the end of 2021 to Polish families, almost PLN 175 billion of support from these funds, which was not to be received to children. And please, Minister, tell us how much extra money will be left in the pockets of Polish families thanks to the Polish Ład, who is also so strongly criticized here... [[Then why are you changing it? It's so great that you're changing it.]] ...and which one you're scaring today. And this is a great opportunity for our homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u304	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The minister told us what it was like in space. But we are interested in how it is in Poland. If you're a PiS activist, at least you can send an email to your uncle or you can send an email to Minister Dworczyk. I will quote such an email, dated 17 October 2019: According to the conversation for me, the only option of survival in local government policy is the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Investment and Development. [[Applause]] For me, which I consider to be bearable, is European funds in local self-government units. I don't know about self-government, but I'm sure you didn't get your share of the economy. When you're a company, it's like... It's like this... [[I thought you could do better than that.]] Listen, because it's going to be a story from the Limanów district, from the Laskowa commune, where PiS has so far had 90% support... [[I don't want a story.]] ...and I was there on Friday, it's a story from one bakery. There's an invoice for the flour... [[And that's from the Polish Deal, right?]] ...and it turned out that year-to-year price for 1 t rose by 70% , from 1200 to 2000 PLN net. That's an increase. for the flour, from the cost you introduced in Poland. Your priority is to get as many as possible out of people. Imagine that the drivers who sell bread from the car were challenged, and the hat started to run. The bakery owner begged these people not to get mad at the drivers so they would leave them alone so they wouldn't resent them because these people were innocent. The government's policy is to blame... [[What world do you live in?]] ...because the price of flour has increased by 70% and coal by more than 100%. All products (the bell) pay more than a year ago and simply had to raise the price for a loaf of bread to 5 PLN to survive. [[What world do you live in?]] This is the actual image of Poland 2022. That's what you've led to. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u306	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u307	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! As far as energy prices are concerned, of course, there is a question... [[Marshal, you should have banned this a long time ago.]] [[We'll ask for a refund. These are somebody's materials. This is stealing.]] ...that renewable energy is about four times more expensive than coal energy. The additions to renewable energy from coal energy are certificates for this. What happens if we move completely away from carbon energy? Where are we going to pay for renewable energy? So this energy will have to increase at least four times. Unfortunately, this is happening and this is the aftermath of the decisions that have been made in previous governments. But I'm going back to the tax issue. It has already been noted in ancient times that taxes are the spring of the state, the spring of the economy. In addition to the basic characteristics that all taxes have, i.e. tax non-refundability - I might skip it - is a tax stimulus function. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Taxes should be changed as the economy changes and the standard of living. The state, on the other hand, will not make one mistake. You're not gonna make a mistake by giving something. You're not going to make that mistake because you've never done it, and you're never going to do it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u308	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Some people work very hard to make ends meet, and others, to get a job, write an e-mail to the Dwórczyk and point to a department that can carry. And you didn't carry it. The Minister didn't carry it, you didn't carry it, Minister Morawiecki didn't carry it. [[And what did you carry?]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Well, if you didn't write, it's probably just gonna turn out. You didn't carry it. Polish Governance is an increase in taxes, expensive gas, expensive due to your irresponsible fiscal policy, and above all it is chaos, huge chaos. Minister, do you know what the Polish Lad is all about? You don't know. Minister, do you know? You don't know either. Prime Minister Morawiecki doesn't know because he comes to a press conference and gets lost. I'll tell you more, the tax offices don't know what's going on in the Polish Lad, and they call to get an interpretation, accountants don't know, nobody knows. The foundation of a good tax system is its simplicity. Of course, you trivialize conversations with entrepreneurs, but I would really advise you to go to a pizza shop in Poznań, a bakery in Kościan, a hairdresser in Łomża or any company. Maybe you just need to get out of the ministry and ask. I guarantee you that no words you will hear about your politics can be quoted. They won't ask you how to live anymore... [[Don't be ridiculous, sir. If you'd left, you'd have heard.]] ...they won't talk to you at all, because what you're doing is destroying the economy step by step. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr, don't be ridiculous.]] You yourself said that 2/3 of the employees are small and medium-sized enterprises. You take small and medium-sized enterprises. The result will be that GDP will fall, there will be a crisis, not just inflation, and unemployment will increase. This is the result (the bell) of the last 7 years of your irresponsible policies and negligence. [[Applause]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Arthur Soboń: There was nothing about dying quietly.]] [[It's a shame you're making fun of this. It's a shame, it's your shame.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u310	Thank you very much. Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u311	Ladies and gentlemen! Why don't you listen to me for a second? Listen to me. You brought up the subject, so listen to it. [[Voice from the room: We? You're the ones who made the mess.]] Your prescription would certainly be the answer of your guru, Leszek Balcerowicz. And here's what she'd be like. [[Voice from the room: Jarosław Kaczyński.]] Don't disturb me. When he decided on the economy under AWS, inflation was between 10 and 15%. The recipe of Leszek Balcerowicz, when there was no energy crisis... [[Game in the O.R.]] But I'm asking you to calm down. Don't jamm it. ...and there was high inflation - the only prescription - was cooling the economy. The result was that after the Left took over, unemployment jumped to over 20%. This was the result, even though the factors were internal and not external. Today, inflation is driven by external factors, the energy crisis, the fatal climate policy that has been mentioned here. You do not want to find that over 220 billion PLN of aid has been sent to entrepreneurs, including small and medium-sized enterprises, in the fight against the pandemic. They have received aid in this area and thus unemployment has not increased, the economy has not fallen, economic activity has been maintained and economic growth has been maintained. In order to continue to act, however, you need to keep money among people. Polish Load gives people money that will also work for these small and medium-sized enterprises. The amount of PLN 17 billion that will remain in people's pockets (The Bell) will also work for these small and medium-sized enterprises. But money was also given to large-scale local governments, which should invest. [[From what, how did you take their income?]] I would like to tell you that these 150 billion PLN that have been launched for local governments - 50 billion PLN has already been launched, 100 billion PLN will be launched - local governments should invest... [[Give them the proceeds.]] ...and this will also include small and medium-sized companies. Thank you very much, sir. What happened today? My city, Łódź, received an additional 500 million in the Polish government budget, and instead of investing, it reduced investment expenditure... Thank you very much, sir. ...by showing a budget surplus. Therefore, we have different lines of action. The state only loves local governments theoretically, and it practically turns out that you are doing everything you can to serve the rise in unemployment and to reduce economic growth at the same time. Thank you very much, sir. This is your prescription for Leszek Balcerowicz. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u312	Mr President, you spoke a minute longer. I always let you finish, but it's been a really long time. Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Coalition. [[Game in the O.R.]] And I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u313	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I could start with a well-deserved ditching of this wretched, guerrilla government for introducing tax chaos, for cost-effective, for the dramatic situation of small and medium-sized, often family businesses: bakeries, pierrogars or cookies. I'll give you examples of small businesses. The price of wheat baker's flour in 2020 was PLN 1125, a year later - PLN 1300, so there was an increase of almost 17%. For some types of flour, the increase was up to 70%. Sugar prices have increased by 20% over the last year. Finally, I will mention the prices of energy carriers, which can eventually bring down Polish entrepreneurs. This chart shows the scale of increases and shows the amounts on gas invoices received by one of the companies in Podkarpackie: in December 2020 - 2800 PLN, in July - 3500 PLN, in August - 4200 PLN, in October - 5100 PLN, in December Ub. years ago - PLN 8700. And note, the forecast for 2022 - 17 thousand. zł. I don't think the comment is necessary. Only in December Ub. tens of thousands of Polish companies suspended or ceased their activities. Is that a coincidence? Of course not. They were right to fear that Polish Load would finish them off. They survived the times of the Polish People's Republic, dominions, contributions, checks and penalties, survived martial law and great reforms after 1989, survived all waves of pandemics - they survived to look forward to the Polish Order and die. During PO-PSL, entrepreneurs asked Prime Minister Tusk: How to live? Nobody's gonna ask you today, all entrepreneurs say that you can't live under the PiS. And that's the difference. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u314	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Noblekhta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u315	Dear Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Buddy of the Post! We're just implementing Polish Loads, and you've already counted back. [[Applause]] The world pandemic has changed the functioning of countries and world economies in almost two years. Poland as one of the first countries created an anti-crisis shield. The government has allocated an enormous, unprecedented amount of 240 billion to aid micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are in a very difficult situation because of the effects of the pandemic. [[He didn't do it. He took it away from the taxpayers.]] Thanks to this huge state aid, we have kept this at the lowest level in Europe - 5%. If you were to trace the last 5 years of tax changes, you would see that for 5 years we have reduced 20 taxes and 59 billion PLN is left in the pocket of Poles. [[Applause]] [[In your pockets, the PiS.]] This is real help for every citizen. We're cutting down on the progressive tax system, which led to the rule that less earners paid more in percentage terms. We're breaking up with this system. 9 million Poles stop paying PIT tax since 1 January. Thanks to this 17 billion PLN remains in the pockets of Polish families. These are huge amounts. Count what state aid it is. Special assistance is directed to the middle class. Employees, entrepreneurs earning from 5700 to 11 140 gross do not lose (Bingle) on tax reform thanks to the so-called. I'll be relieved for the middle class... [[Voice from the room: 9% lose.]] ...and this is another real help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u316	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Barbara Nowacka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u317	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This debate is very bad because the arrogance of power and the nervous closing of eyes on what happens to Polish companies, with Polish small companies, with workplaces, often with local life, which gives local shops, local laundry or small workplaces, are shocking. You mock the big city elites and tell them that they don't like the Polish Load. You laugh at the fact that entrepreneurs say their small businesses die quietly because you don't hear it. It's hard to see from a limousine, it's hard to see from government stools or from a space agency - because work got done by e-mail. [[And you're saying that?]] But when you really went down to people and asked how they lived - those who built Polish companies, very often tiny, employing 5 and 20 people? They in a village or village are often the only employer, very often - the only bakery and the only store. Today these people have to shut down their business because their inflation is eating away at their expense, eating their high prices of electricity and gas. You're mocking me. [[But do you know what you're saying?]] Mrs Bartus is very nervous. You'll go to Primoshin. There Mrs. Barbara, who has been running a shop in her village for decades - the municipality of Puck, I recommend - has just closed it because it has been killed by gas prices and inflation. So? What are the consequences? A few people are losing their jobs. The local egg salesman will have nowhere to sell these eggs. Next thing you know, who's gonna get in there. There's gonna be some kind of market network going in there that pays taxes abroad. Is your government ready to reform within the labour offices, helping people find jobs, helping companies (the bell) that will rain? You're laughing, you're mocking, and it's because of your failure of these companies that you won't be. [[It's your show.]] What's worse, all you have to say is that seven years ago, Donald Tusk... Guys, knock yourselves in the head. Who cares that 7 years ago Donald Tusk... [[Applause]] The companies are going down today. Today people have nowhere to work. They have nothing to live for today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u318	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Teresa Pamula, Law and Justice. [[How beautiful, how touching, just so you know.]] [[I know more than you do.]] I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u319	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Pandemic crisis, economic crisis, global price increases. Plus, there's a sharp deterioration on the east border. It is in this context that I want to ask a question. We know very well that there is a price increase. the situation in the gas markets. We can already see that Nord Stream 2 which, as Russian leaders assured, but also politicians ruling the European People's Party in the European Union, headed by Donald Tusk, was to be only an economic project, became another tool of energy blackmail in Russia's hands. Is there a risk that this project, which was agreed by the leading European leaders of the European Council with Donald Tusk and Angela Merkel, will further increase prices and make Europe dependent on Russian gas? [[Obsession, some tuscomania.]] I just wanted to add... You guys are always saying that accountants can't count. In Lubaczów, a small town, accounting in high school, they counted it well. They knew how to calculate the teacher's salary. Everyone's been paid the right amount. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Why did the cops get less?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u320	Thank you. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u321	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! I see a clear obsession with Tusk inside the PiS camp. You do not leave well-being, and we listened to entrepreneurs. We have recently heard a representative of a laundry network who has made it very clear that for them 40% of the cost is energy and gas. [[Okay, but what do you suggest?]] If energy and gas prices increase by several hundred percent, washing the suit, which was recently washed for 50 PLN, will cost 150 PLN. What does that mean? It really means no one's gonna want this suit washed. [[You're not excited, you'll listen.]] We were standing under a vegan restaurant called Yellow, in Łódź. Turns out it's shutting down. You'd better not go there, I assure you. You wrote very clearly that it closes through gas prices, but also through the Polish Load, which destroys it eventually. We were also standing in front of Kebab House. It's another company that's wondering if it's gonna steal the business, because the Polish Load, along with gas prices, is killing it. [[What do you suggest?]] There are plenty of such companies throughout Poland. However, one thing must be said: in Polish Lada one group of Poles was very well cared for. Contrary to appearances, they are not pensioners, they are not entrepreneurs, they are not even medium-earning Poles. I have the impression that Polish Load wrote Obajtek. [[Applause]] Turns out there's a great relief. It's called a palace plus. It turns out that you can save several hundred thousand zlotys, or even millions, if you buy an antique palace and then renovate it. You can count it off. It's just a coincidence that this palace has Obajtek. Probably people like Mr Morawiecki can afford it, but not necessarily middle class. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I just want to say one last thing. Over the past 6 years, Poles and Poles have seen exactly who has led to inflation at 8.6% And you've taken over the deflation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u322	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Kazimierz Chom, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u323	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I hear here the term: the PiS state and similar terms which are disrespectful, ignoring, aiming more towards the PR fight than leaning over the really difficult fate of entrepreneurs at the moment. You're forgetting one thing. This is due to democracy. It wasn't the PiS who chose himself. It was the Polish people who chose the United Right, who chose their representatives who chose the government. [[Applause]] We have hatred and tribal struggles here, but democracy must be respected and the democratically elected government should be ignored less. Let's get back to the subject. There is a beautiful sentence that has been said: the chief policy of my government will be to gradually reduce taxes and other public danins. This applies to all the less wealthy and richer ones. You will admit that this is a beautiful expression of thought. One surprise is the fact that these are not the words of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, but Donald Tusk, who spoke them during his first exposé in 2007. We remember how in 2007 the Prime Minister said: I swear to Poles that anyone who in my government proposes a tax raise will be personally expelled by me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, as with many other promises, these were just empty words. It was raised, among others. VAT, the pension premium has been increased. [[40 new...]] Question to the Minister: What specific taxes have already been or will be reduced as part of the solutions proposed in the inflation shield? Is the government [[Applause]] plans to extend or extend solutions if necessary? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u324	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u325	Mr. Liberty Man Kaczyński! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is known to be expensive, but it is said to be only until 1 February, because then VAT reductions on selected foods come from 5% to 0%. Then it'll all blow over, won't it? The electricity, the gas and all that. What if it doesn't? If he doesn't, it's known that the shopkeepers will be guilty, a private initiative. They can destroy even the best system in the world. They've shown it more than once. That is why I would like to ask about the fate of the government's proposal to introduce regulated prices. I know that OUKiK is already checking the prices in stores, that from 1 February it is to be ready for action. But wouldn't the shopkeepers who wouldn't want to lower their prices impose fines? Will there be worker-boy and ecclesiastical controls? Will Kurski record such checks? It worked great for the communes. Does the government provide for the liquidation of such stores and the requisition of goods? Because we... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ma'am, think of the magazines full of them. It is known that prices are increased by speculators. They earn cynically on the imperfections of the Polish Deal and on all its patches. That is why they need to confiscate their assets against price reductions, and thus from the highest inflation in Europe and the highest cost we will go down to the lowest inflation, we can soon have the lowest inflation. Another success of the government, a scored, off-balanced economy and inflation... [[And you get any more roles in the theater or just here?]] ...and you can calmly go back to eavesdropping on the opposition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u326	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u327	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! World wheat prices only increased in October ub. 5 per cent and were more than 1/3 higher than a year ago. I am talking about this because one of the Members and the Member spoke about the price of flour. The reason is the smaller wheat harvest in the largest exporters of this grain - Canada, Russia and China. The record price level has also been reached in the market for barley, rice and vegetable oils. The reason is equal increases in palm oil prices, driven by concerns about reducing this fat production in Malaysia. Tomorrow there will be storms over Poland. I understand that the Government of the United Right is also responsible for this and has also contributed to the fact that they will be large. If anything is said, ladies and gentlemen, account must be taken of the reality of world markets, of Europe's economic and deconstructive issues, and of the pandemic. We can be blamed for different price increases... [[You have to ask the baker.]] ...but read on a portal called Forsal, you'll find out what it looks like. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u328	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u329	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! This discussion can be concluded by saying that this is no longer a country for entrepreneurial people. But this is not a country for single parents who are now standing under the Sejm and chanting: Polish Load has stolen children! And I say it as a single father. Following this lead - I recall the time when your predecessors ruled, which means I'm not talking about what's been going on for the last 6, 7 years. I was in the catering business. Your teammates, Janusz Kowalski, made fun of it. But today I know how entrepreneurs feel when they pay gas bills, electricity bills. All of this makes their economic account completely unbalanced. And now my question: Will the UOKiK, which I have heard is to control entrepreneurs in terms of lowering prices, as a result of government action, also control Orlen stations? Will Orlen's stations be subdued as well? That's where soap and pitchfork are sold, I don't know, buns. Will these products be cheaper? My next question is: Will entrepreneurs - who today, oppressed by the Polish shaft, really fight for survival and most likely close their interests - be forced to put out information at their own expense about the fact that you have reduced VAT on individual products by a few percent, thus campaigning for the government? Is this how it's supposed to look? Isn't it enough that you deprive them of their fundamental right to operate on the market, that they're still going to promote you for it? Really, the number of problems that occur right now in the last six years doesn't come from who ruled before. That's what you've been doing so far. So the Polish shaft can simply be summarised as a giant tax increase. And to this, the galloping cost by your inability to even deal with gas - by deceiving Janusz Kowalski's words - led to the fact that today, unfortunately, many Polish families (The Bell) in small companies will be forced to shut up. And the question is, what are you gonna do about it? What are you gonna do about it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u330	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Gawada, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! You are talking about bringing up facts to bring up specific data. I'll use the data from the statistical office. The table in a way, I think, clear and unambiguous also shows some trends. Speaking of which, let's take a look. I can even show you the link from this side. 2005 - almost 20% unemployment. This is the year 2005. This unemployment falls to less than 12% for only two years. 7 percentage points. Giant work done only in 2 years. Come on, let's go. 2008 - we have unemployment of several percent, 11.5%. We're talking about 2008. 2009 - unemployment is rising, 2010. - over 12%, 2011 - 13%, 2012 - 13.2%, etc., I could quote. At the end of 2021, when we were confronted with an extraordinary problem and a wave related to COVID, with the implementation of a very large number of programmes that countered all these very complex processes, December 2021 - unemployment 5.4%. These are facts. And further, if we are talking about prices - of course gas prices, prices of energy carriers. Look at this. This isn't a graph. by me, this is a graph drawn up by international institutions. In this graph, Poland is a country where energy prices are lowest, despite (the bell) the huge burden associated with the carbon levy. [[Then why is inflation the highest?]] Your marshal, two questions. I didn't say names or... Two questions only. If you really... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But I'm sorry... Madame, I did not disturb you, even though I disagreed with your statement. [[But your friends were in the way.]] Mr... Ladies and gentlemen... Mr President, your time is up and ask these questions. A lot is said about various problems related to the Polish Ład. I would like to ask the Minister and the Minister how much money will actually remain in Polish families' wallets after the introduction of the Polish Government into the tax system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u332	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Czesław Mroczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish small and medium-sized enterprises are in a dramatic situation. The highest inflation in more than 20 years and with this inflation the government and the National Bank of Poland have not fought for a long time because it has been beneficial for the government. The budget was bigger. The highest interest rates in many, many years. Radical, draconian increases in electricity and gas prices. In my town, in Minsk Mazowiecki, I spoke to a company that employs several people. The January 2021 gas bill - less than 4 000 and now for the same period in 2020 - 14 000. zł. The aid measures you are exchanging today are running out. You have extended Poland to an unimaginable scale, but this process is already ending. There's not gonna be a lot of help. Entrepreneurs are looking for a rescue today. And what's the answer? Shoe, arrogance, irresponsibleness and propaganda. Ladies and gentlemen, you know from your own experience that there is nothing worse and in private life, and in public life than an irresponsible man, an irresponsible authority. Everyone's guilty, not you. Ladies and gentlemen, the people who have to deal with those accounts that break up their companies won't listen to what happened 15 years ago. They expect your help. They already know they won't get it. They know they won't get it. We had to deal in Poland with arrogant, arrogant power, which fell. And you know you're gonna have the same thing. Your great fault, apart from all those I have mentioned, is that by the insane policy (The Bell) you were leading, Poland does not receive aid from the European Union, it does not use the recovery plan. [[Call Brussels.]] And therefore you will become history as those who eliminated small and medium-sized Polish enterprises. You will pay for all the damage you do to Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u334	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Bielecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u335	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask a question about support for Polish families within the Polish Order. What Polish families will receive support within Polish families? It was a question about Polish families. I wanted to ask what this PIT-0 is for families of four and more. [[Voice from the room: But there isn't a PIT yet.]] I wanted to ask if it is true that 300 million zlotys will remain in large families' wallets. And by the way, I wanted to ask you because the opposition state... [[Your families.]] All families, ma'am, all of them. I was just gonna ask you, so cool... I'm asking you to calm down. ...a man of opposition, intelligent. I'm surprised. Why are you wasting your time here? Your energy? Surely you know very well that the key to solving expensive energy lies in Brussels. That is where the ETS was established. I am surprised that you are simply being blackmailed by the Russian union by gas in Brussels. [[The voice from the room: you've ruined everything.]] That is why we built the European Union, the European Community, to be a large organism today, which cannot be blackmailed by Russia. So I'm very surprised. It's a waste of your energy. Because the government is doing everything it can in Poland. Some solution, the key to these solutions lies right there in Brussels. Get over there. Ask your leaders who rule there. What's this for them? [[Tell your men how to teach them.]] I'm not lecturing, I'm surprised you guys come here. We don't rule in Brussels, ma'am. [[Isn't the Prime Minister supposed to be handling things?]] There, unfortunately, I'm sorry... [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're not in charge. Thank you very much. Greetings. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u336	I'm asking you to calm down. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u337	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is known that more than 80% External factors, including those related to energy prices, have an impact on price increases. And that is why the Polish government is not standing still, only the family is concerned and the family is at the heart of the current government. The number of children that have been covered by government support programmes in recent years is impressive because it is up to 6.5 million children under the 500+ programme. 4.5 million children in the "Good start" programme and a good next program supporting Polish families in raising children, it is the Family Care Capital from the "Polish Load" programme. That's $12,000. zł and for the second, and for another child aged between 12 and 35 months of age. This solution allows you to combine your work with your children's upbringing and, as we know, is also of great interest. I'm scared to think if the opposition were in a global crisis. Tell me, Minister, how many children will be covered in 2022 by another instrument, i.e. Family Care Capital. And second question, if I can fit in time. My constituents report to the parliamentary office and ask about the effects of the Polish Order, and these are employees on the board, working physically, but also pensioners. They ask for concrete examples of how much such people will gain on the Polish Lad. And besides, I wanted to quote my opposition friend. This is the fault of Russia, Tusk and Brussels. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u338	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u339	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! Let me start by quoting. Those who understand basically the economy know that if the government had buttons, one would have written low prices, and the other would have been high prices, then I would have done nothing else. I wouldn't do it, I would just press this button for low prices. It's the only lumps that don't exist. And interestingly enough, I agree with that classic quote. I'm sure you and the opposition know who said that. [[We all know.]] There are no such buttons, but the Law and Justice government has found tools, economic tools that can lower these prices. This is a reduction in excise duty, a reduction in energy prices, the taxes that are being introduced, an anti-inflationary shield and cover additives for the poorest. [[And for entrepreneurs?]] For entrepreneurs? Speaking of which, my fellow Member. For entrepreneurs there are solutions such as: Estonian CIT, how transparent at the moment the rules, which can also influence that it is possible, when deciding on the appropriate form of taxation, to use them in their activities. Minister! I have a specific question about the advance, the health contribution. This contribution has increased to 9%. Micro- and small entrepreneurs, especially the smallest ones, may have trouble calculating this contribution, having regard to, for example, the remanents that were made at the end of the year, calculating this income. Would it be possible - also a spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs - for this advance to be flat-rate for these smallest entrepreneurs? The point is that it can be simplified to count and pay to the budget and then at the end of the year, to settle the next year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Small, micro- and medium-sized entrepreneurs are the largest capital of our country. I guess everyone understands that, and the opposition, and the ruling party. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u340	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Mirosława Nykiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u341	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! What we heard in the course of this information, especially those spoken by the opposition Members, and what the PiS-owska majority did yesterday, rejecting the Senate's amendments on phased tariffs, so that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs can benefit from reduced gas prices, bears witness to how you treat Polish entrepreneurs. That would have been enough, and I could've ended it, because that makes it clear. And they won't change the Minister's assurance or the minister's screaming that it's so perfect. Then why is it so bad? Now let me quote you something: The whole system is designed like this - it's called New Deal, let's call it elegantly - that those who pay extra contributions will get refund only after the tax year has passed, after settlement. This is a total scandal and a misunderstanding. Who's talking? Adam Abramovich, spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises. From your political family. For many weeks now, ladies and gentlemen, further business dramas have been brought to our parliamentary offices. In my town, Bielsko-Biała, an average entrepreneur who employs several hundred people, received a gas price of 900% higher. [[But which one is it?]] What do you think? It will increase product prices. And what will happen as a result? It will not be competitive on the Polish market or on the foreign market. Further consequences can be expected. You're the reason small and medium-sized companies die quietly. Inflation+, one of the largest in Europe, so-called Polish Cargo plus rising costs, energy and gas prices kill these companies. Entrepreneurs say: we don't want to raise prices, we don't want to fire employees, we don't want to close companies, but we don't have a choice anymore. This dramatic message came from a parliamentary consultation which we organized as the Civic Coalition for entrepreneurs from nine voivodships and ten industries. But you weren't there. PiS wasn't there. [[Applause]] Why weren't you there? Why didn't you listen, like you didn't want to listen to the opposition Members, what the entrepreneurs said? You weren't at that consultation because you don't listen to experts or opposition or entrepreneurs. Why would I do that? Because you know everything best. And today we expect concrete action from the government. Leave the tax-free amount, these tax thresholds, but suspend, and this is our proposal, Polish Load for 1 year. Give me a chance to consult with the entrepreneurs. Give yourself and the entrepreneurs a chance. We expect that from you. We are aware that some companies already took action in January to change their legal form because they were dramatically looking for new solutions, but we believe that this is better than being in this mess for the next 11 months. [[♪ The bell ♪]] High Seym! The Minister presented the statistics here. I'll use the statistics, too. Did you know that in 2021, 270 thousand. Did the companies suspend their business? Over 2,000 this year. The companies have declared insolvent. That's 70%. more than in the previous year and four times more than two years ago. Two years earlier... Thank you very much, Member. Marshal, just a moment. Certainly one of the biggest problems for companies in 2022 will be to maintain liquidity. Therefore, we appeal once again: suspend this Polish Load for a year, give yourself and entrepreneurs a chance to consult. [[But the Polish Load has nothing to do with gas prices.]] Introduce some anti-inflationary measures in the longer term and introduce restrictions on gas prices per year for entrepreneurs. These are our proposals. Otherwise, you'll kill small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u342	Thank you very much, Member. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Arthur Sobonia.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! That's too bad, because we missed our chance to have a serious conversation... [[Voice from the room: We lost too.]] ...because for Poles the subject of inflation and the pursuit of a tax system as fair and as complex as possible is essential. And that's the chance we missed today. And these are the voices, Madam Member, which have fallen today. It is about the voices of gassing anyone who fell out of this speaker from Mr Civic Platform, the votes addressed to the government. This is such a radical reduction in the level of public debate that you should really be ashamed of it. [[Applause]] Mrs Skowrońska, whom I very much respect, said: only the entrepreneur you are running gets help. Mrs. Member! All these entrepreneurs that Mr Tusk has been visiting recently are also receiving such assistance. [[Applause]] Every entrepreneur in Poland who required such assistance received such assistance. And Donald Tusk is not money from the European Union, because when we came to the ministry with Minister Kwiecinski just before the end of the 2007-2013 perspective, because it had to be settled, we had one and a half months to spend our own contribution on projects of PLN 30 billion. And it was the only time since Poland entered the European Union that we could really lose EU money for Poland. We could have lost them because of the inability of your governments. [[Seven years you rule...]] The same Tusk is responsible for climate policy and for all that today is part of this inflationary pressure. I think that no one with healthy senses, and in the Platform, I think, is lacking in people with healthy senses, does not think that this external pressure in the form of energy carriers is today the basic pressure on inflation and prices, also on energy prices. Today, more than half of the EU's climate policy is affecting energy prices. We, of course, do not underestimate these voices, also the voices about the need to improve. I myself mentioned a number of areas where we want to prepare these changes. We also do not underestimate the voices of communication. We've made tens of thousands of phone calls, webinars, there's infoline, live chat, there's a set of information, although it's probably not enough. So we agree that this information is something that is necessary. On the other hand, if you really want to use such primitive propaganda as the palace +, then I inform you that this mechanism causes that housing communities in the case of tenement houses or investors in the case of e.g. The manor houses won't be interested at last to destroy this location, this investment, but they'll be interested in rebuilding it. And if you were interested in the answers to the questions that came out here, for example. The Member asked about the number of apartments, so you would be here, but today you, i.e. those who have asked questions, are mostly simply not in the Chamber when we have to answer these questions. E.g. These apartments in 2015 were built in Poland 147 thousand. There are 234,000 of them today. - that's last year's data. I know that we are creating new programmes in this area and we are going to create them. We will create them so that these apartments, especially for less wealthy people in Poland, will arrive. The companies that operate today are about 600,000. more than when you gave up power. That's REGON. We can do all kinds of tricks here, but that's just the way it is, that's the numbers. Today, these companies are more profitable. As far as revenue is concerned, that's the ratio of 5.2 to 4.7. They have better liquidity, more exports, spend more on R &amp; D. That's 32 billion against 17 billion in 2015. Today we are in a situation where, in dialogue with small and medium-sized enterprises, we need to create instruments that will allow us to go through a difficult period of inflation growth. This is the period during which these companies can expect state support and unlike what was, for example. In 2008, such support was received and will be received by the State. The elements of this support are the 30,000, and the higher threshold, and the possibility of choosing a method of taxation on a general, very favourable flat-rate basis, a tax card for those (the Bell) who so far use this form, or a linear tax, a flat-rate tax, otherwise raised. I can talk about this in a serious conversation for a long time, because these challenges are extremely much. This tax system in Poland, which we are reforming today, is a complex and unfair system. And such a major change certainly requires a serious parliamentary debate. [[Voice from the hall: Suspend it for a year.]] Today, Commissioner, this serious parliamentary debate was not in the Polish Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u344	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology, Mrs Olga Semeniuk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u345	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Sobonie and I were hoping for a really serious debate related to the Polish Ład, with the mistakes that were made, for which we apologized, with the reform and the system that we are repairing. But there was no debate. [[You can relax.]] I was also hoping to give the answer to Mrs Nowacka, Mrs Jachira, Mr Mark Sowie, but the agenda of the day is fulfilled, the assumptions that are not true presented, the presence in the Chamber - none. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, short ad vocem. Unfortunately, this cannot be avoided, because the personal attack is linked to the lack of substantive arguments. So, Mr Owl, to tell you about the cosmic path, if you had travelled all over Poland twice in the last two years and met with craftsmen, with small and medium-sized companies, I think it would be a real space road for you. To Mrs Nowacka: if you read more, you would probably know that according to the competence of the Ministry of Development and Technology, the POLSA department... [[But what are you...]] I will also have a short ad vocem for you in a moment. [[But this lady is famous for her lack of class.]] If Mrs Nowacka had read more, she would probably have known that the assumptions regarding the supervision of the POLSA board were based on the regulation of competence of the Ministry of Development and Technology. But the Member doesn't read, so he doesn't have that knowledge. Minister, please... State Secretary at the Ministry of Development and Technology Olga Ewa Semeniuk: Mrs Jachira visiting craftsmen and small businesses, showing a great deal of emotion here. [[Voice from the room: Why not?]] It is only a pity that at a time when the Platform was ruled, the largest craft resources were actually destroyed in large and medium-sized cities. Very often Mr Kosiniak-Kamish, Members of the Civic Coalition talk about craftsmen. They're saying what kind of support they're getting out with. It's only thanks to our governments and the fact that we've introduced the crafts department... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...we have created a program for small and medium-sized companies, strategies for 10 years, so these companies are functioning. [[None of them came from your initiative.]] I encourage you to familiarize yourself with the strategy. This year another recruitment and proposals for small and medium-sized enterprises are launched. Thanks to this money we allow entrepreneurs to survive, we pay for the fixed costs associated with the maintenance and operation of these enterprises. It is an author's law and justice project and my great pride. Ladies and gentlemen, once again: small and medium-sized enterprises work loudly, they work for Polish capital, they also work abroad. You can see that in the export results. To Mrs Skowrońska, whom I also very much respect, especially for preparing your substantive capacity at the various committee meetings, I highly value your expertise. You said we should finally prepare an anti-crisis shield that will have some effect. Madam President, the crisis shield contained comprehensive solutions addressed to all entrepreneurs. The support instruments included: exemption from ZUS contributions, parking benefits, co-financing from WUP and PUP salaries, PFR 1.0 financial shield - without any criteria, 2.0 financial shield, working capital subsidies for small and medium-sized enterprises - all the possible programs that we have launched thanks to PARP, ARP and PAIH. Their task was to support the liquidity of companies, secure this liquidity and ensure that unemployment does not jump like in other countries, which today, ladies and gentlemen, is also a symptom of inflation... [[Activation.]] ...because inflation is a symptom of the economic exit from a given crisis. 240 billion PLN addressed to entrepreneurs. Next, the charge, which was very often made, concerning dialogue, lack of contact. Here someone said that he was with Mrs. Agnieszka, Mr. Bogdan, and I was with Mr.Mark, Mr.Tomasz, I meet with the entire Union of Polish Crafts, I meet with over 300,000. companies, recounting only sequences... [[That's not what they say.]] Mrs... ...about how to function, how to make it easier for them and what they need. [[Then why are they calling for the suspension of the Polish Deal?]] No one else but the Government of Law and Justice, ladies and gentlemen, has prepared a new draft law on crafts. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[They won't.]] Vocational training, professional schools - what was required of you in times of no crisis, when you could show that you were able to take care of, was eliminated in your day. In 2020, 60 meetings were held at the Ministry of Development and Technology with industry representatives. It's only thanks to entrepreneurs, ladies and gentlemen, that we've created an anti-crisis shield. It was because of their demands that their interference with these shields were pushed through. That's when you and Donald Tusk yelled that there wasn't gonna be enough money that wasn't gonna be enough. You have created draft laws without any coverage - neither an impact assessment nor a financial risk assessment. That's how you wanted to function and show that you could do something. [[But talk about yourselves. Talk about yourself.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally: I am very calm after this debate, because I am convinced that you will remain an ineffective opposition. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You'll see, Minister.]] [[And you wouldn't have a job without an e-mail.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u346	This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for January 27th. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Maciej Kopiec, Left, will be the first to speak. May I remind you that on your statements you have Today's three minutes because we have hybrid mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u347	Your marshal, thank you. High Izbo! Many times I have criticized the terrible way Mrs. Ewa Fica's PiS nominee managed at the Regional Specialist Hospital No. 3 in Rybnik. Mrs. Fica said she was pursuing her vision of the hospital's development. In practice, she shut down troops, fired people, and led the hospital to gross dysfunction. My criticism was always supported by arguments, responding to signals from patients, staff and doctors working at the hospital. Recently another border has been crossed by dangerous pests from the Confederation, who, for their own benefit and political theatre, have personally attacked the doctors of the Fisherman hospital, who are consequently afraid for their life and health. Doctors are another social group after teachers attacked by Confederates. In December 2021, I spoke here about the violation of the law by a man who pretended to be Mr Braun's assistant, who trespassed on the school premises and carried out an unlawful attack on school heads, calling it a parliamentary intervention. My application for this case has already been sent to the D.A.'s office. The Sejm operates Braun's team under the name Parliamentary Team on: Abuse and Violation of the Law in connection with COVID-19. It is closely linked to another project by director Braun Nuremberg 2.0, on which the website mentions hanging people. The man who pretended to be Braun's assistant, as well as assaulting a fisherman's hospital, is the coordinator of this project. The same man is also the president of the foundation, which creates a hat platform on the Internet, making the transmission available from illegal robberies to public institutions. The lack of reaction from the Marshal of the Sejm shows that the Sejm takes these actions under its wings. After a meeting of Braun's team, falsely referred to as an investigative commission, broadcast live, where doctors were insulted, comments were made calling COVID medics fascists and selfish murderers killing for money. Making another spiral of hatred for people who are doing what they can to save the lives and health of citizens in the time of another massive wave of pandemic, with practically zero government support, is scandal. The Confederation is entirely responsible for the cynical use of the disease to build political support at the expense of people. I appeal to Marshal Elizabeth Witek for the control and solution of Braun's team in the Seym, and I assure the doctors of the Fisherman's hospital of solidarity and full support - mine and my parliamentary office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u348	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A general strike has been in progress for four days at Solaris in Wielkopolska, which could not have been the case if the company's board of directors had taken their own employees and employees seriously and led to the conclusion of a multi-month collective dispute in establishments caused by the lack of wage increases, which both trade unions in the company are seeking on behalf of the employees: OPZZ and Solvency. Expecting 450 PLN gross increase, and after announcing strike 800 PLN equally for each employee and employee is not an excessive and unrealistic expectation. This expectation is entirely justified on the one hand by the company's record profits, and on the other hand by inflation, a cost which this increase will partially compensate. Unfortunately, disregarding trade unions and ignoring employees' expectations by the Board of Solaris is a sad sign of the times and Poland after the transformation. The tragic paradox of history is the fact that in a country where freedom and democracy won 33 years ago a powerful trade union - so powerful a social force that it managed to overcome, seemed, an invincible communist system and freed us from the tick of the Soviet Union - after regaining freedom the labour market began to rule the free market god without civilized rules and employee security, and the trade unions almost disappeared from the workplace. The greater the thanks for the strength and determination of the two trade unions in Solaris, the greater the recognition and support for all strikers. You are the hope for other workplaces in Poland. Hold on. You're gonna win. We're with you. I would also like to address the Spanish board of directors of the CAF. I wish to address the Spanish CAF group and strongly support the ongoing general strike at the Solaris Bus and Coach Company in Poland, launched by the workers on the 24th of January in demand for decent scales. I appeal to you, the CAF management to influence your Solaris board to resume talks and reach an agreement with their employers and bow down to their expectations. The demand for pay raises is fully legitimate and justified by your company.S record profits in the past 2 years on the one hand, and in the wake of Poland.Souring inflation and the plummeting power of the workers. The strike comes as the climax of long months of trade union effects to negotiate and reach a plausible agreement - effectivenesss [[♪ The bell ♪]] which have proven futile as the company board has continued to disregard the workers. Do not forget that Polish workers are to be treated with the same respect and regard as workers in Spain and other Western democracys. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u350	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u351	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! My seymous appearances very often revolve around history, this small and large one. 17 January 1982 Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko celebrated the first mass at war for his homeland in the parish of St. Stanisława Kostka in Warsaw, Żoliborz. Someone will ask: What is this event? Literally speaking, he would be right, but historical incidents should be judged in terms of context and the focus is on it. As early as October 1980, just after the rise of the Solidarity, Fr. Theophile Bogucki of Żoliborz initiated Mass. for his homeland, and following his example he followed, among others. Fr. Kazimierz Jancarz from the New Huta. However, the greatest publicity was gained by those led by Fr. Jerzy in the martial arts. It was this priest who spread the ideas of these liturgical meetings despite all limitations. I will remind you that in Piotrków Trybunalski Masses for their homeland were celebrated in the church of Jesuit fathers, and they were presided over by Father Jesuit Remigiusz Wysocki. Each Mass was celebrated every 13th day of the month and the first was held on 13 January 1982. The exact name of these Masses for their homeland is Holy Mass. for the sake of the country and those who suffer most for it. Fr. Jerzy opposed the violence of the authorities and urged us to pray for the repressed, arrested, beaten and humiliated. Nevertheless, he preached the principle: conquer evil with good. Holy Mass. For their homeland they were held by Fr. It was always on the last Sunday of the month, and the latter was on August 26, 1984. Why were they so important? The answer is obvious. At this darkest time they gave hope, hope that something would change, that someday it would be different. The priest gave the highest price for this hope. He was brutally murdered. This January Mass, Fr. Jerzy was just this effect, one of the many that eventually led to the overthrow of the Moscow dictatorship and the recovery of self-determination. This should be remembered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u352	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u353	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal! Today we celebrate International Holocaust Victim Remembrance Day. It was established on the anniversary of the liberation of the German Auschwitz-Birkenau extermination camp, where on 27 January 1945 soldiers of the Red Army, who opened the gates of this hell, met about 7 thousand. extremely exhausted prisoners, including many children. In this hell on earth, the Germans killed at least 1,100 thousand. people, mainly Jews, but also Poles, Roma, Soviet prisoners and people of other nationalities. The camp was a place of unimaginable suffering, shameful practices, and a place where humanity reached the bottom. In 2005, the United Nations established a day for the liberation of the International Holocaust Remembrance Day. Today marks the 77th anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz-Birkenau extermination camp. Remembrance will be forever throughout the world, reminding us that hatred leads to crime. And what happened can never happen again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u354	Thank you, sir. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u355	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna talk about the Solaris strike today. It is a company owned by an international Spanish company. I'd like to address our friends in Spain. Therefore, I will allow myself to make this statement in Spanish. El pasado lunes 24 de enero los trabajadores de la empresa Solaris en Polonia initialon una huelga general. Solaris pertenece al groupo español CAF. Por eso me dirijo a vosotros, nueestros compañeros y compañeras españoles, para pediros apoyo y solidaridad. CAF tiene la ambición de construir los mejores buses en Europa. El año pasado hiso una ganancia de más de 22 millones de euros. Al mismo tiempo, los trabajadores calificados, con 15 años de experiencia laboral, ganan 660 euros. Los obreros demandaban un aumento de 176 euros. El empleador rechazó esta demanda. En cambio, CAF ofreció aumentos de suldo que favorecen a los gerentes, mientras los oberos podrían contar con solo 45 euros. El coste de vida en Polonia está subiendo, debido a la mayor inflación en décades. Esto no es suficiente. En el curso de las negociaciones se hizo evidente que CAF no quería legar a ningún acuerdo. La dirección rechazó la demanda de aumentar los salarios a todos los empleados de manera equitativa, calificándola de ¿comunista. Además, el presidente de Solaris no se dignó a sentarse a la mesa de negociación. Javier Calleja se reunió con los representativees de los sindicatos una vez - cuando las negociaciones fracasaron - y no propuso ninguna solución. Con los huelguistas se encontró hoy, el cuarto día de la huelga, para preguntarles, Żecual es su problema. Cuando la huelga empezó, los gerentes de la empresa les prohibieron la entrada a Solaris a los líderes sindicales y a los abogados. Según los representativeativos de CAF, permitir que los huelguistas tengan contacto con sus consejeros, va en contra de los interestes de la empresa. Esta decisión viola la ley poleca y las recomendaciones de la Organización Internacional del Trabajo. CAF rechazó también la opportunidad de encontrarse con los diputados y diputadas de izquierdas, del partido Total y de New Left, que llegaron a Solaris con la intención de facilitar el diálogo. Además CAF se niega a pagar sueldo a los empleados que están de huelga. Esto es un chantaje evidente. Tras el fracaso de las negociaciones, CAF está intentando aplastar la huelga. La lucha de los empleados polacos ha obtenido el respaldo de los sindicatos de España: Unión General de Trabajadoras y Trabajadores y ELA Sindikatua. Hoy en el parliamento polaco la sigla CAF se menciona en el peor contexto possible. El hecho de que el congreso en Polonia tenga que debatir sobre cómo se trata a los trabajadores en CAF, sobre las violaciones de derechos laboratoryes y las normas internacionales en CAF, es una pesada carga para la empresa. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Las acciones de CAF han perdido un 8% de su valor desde el pasado jueves. CAF tiene que comprender que su estrategia de confrontación y trato humillante a los trabajadores, así como su política de competitionir con bajos costes laboratoryes deben terminar. Polonia, España y toda Europa necesitan terminar con el dumping social. Ya es hora de acabar con la precaridad laboratory. La izquierda recommend demanda empleo digno - tanto en Polonia como en España. Estamos contando con vuestro apoyo en esta lucha. Sólo juntos podemos vencer. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] On the last Monday, January 24th, Solaris' employees in Poland started a general strike. Solaris is part of the Spanish CAF group. That is why I am asking you, our Spanish friends, for support and solidarity. The CAF wants to produce the best buses in Europe. Last year it reached over EUR 22 million in profit. At the same time, skilled workers with 15 years of experience earn the equivalent of just €660. Employees demanded an increase of EUR 176. The employer rejected this request. On the other hand, the CAF proposed wage increases which favoured management, while workers could count on increases, the lowest of which would be EUR 45. The cost of life in Poland is constantly increasing, including the highest inflation for decades. In this situation, it is clear that these proposals were insufficient. During the negotiations it became clear that the CAF did not want to reach an agreement. The Directorate rejected the demand to raise the salary of all employees taking into account the situation of the worst-earned workers, specifying them as a communist. Moreover, Solaris' president was not gracious to appear at the negotiating table. Javier Calleja took part in one meeting with the union leaders, after the failure of negotiations, and did not propose any solution to the problem. Only today, on the fourth day of the strike, he met with the strike workers themselves to ask them what their problem is. When the strike began, the company's bosses banned trade union leaders and lawyers from entering Solaris' territory. According to the board, allowing strikers to contact their advisors is contrary to the interests of the company. This decision violates Polish laws and recommendations of the International Labour Organisation. The CAF also rejected the proposal to meet with the left-wing Members of the Party, together with the New Left, who came to Solaris to mediate between the board and the crew. In addition, the CAF refused to pay a salary to workers who were on strike, resorting to obvious blackmail and thus trying to strangle the strike. The fight of Polish workers gained the support of trade unions from Spain: Unión General de Trabajadoras y Trabajadores and Industria eta Eraikuntza en ELA Sindikatua. Today in the Polish Parliament the name CAF falls in a negative light. The fact that the Sejm must debate the quality of CAF staff treatment, the violation of labour law and international standards in the CAF is certainly no reason to be proud. CAF shares have lost 8% since last Thursday values. The CAF should understand that the current, confrontational and humiliating treatment of workers and the application of a policy to compete with low labour costs must end. Poland, Spain and Europe must put an end to social dumping. There is no place in the European Union for pre-care working conditions. The Polish Left demands decent work both in Poland and Spain. We hope you will support us in this fight. We'll only win together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u356	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u357	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! My statement is addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and concerns speeding up work on amending the law allowing farmers to get a full pension after reaching retirement age without the need to transfer the farm. It is the Government of Law and Justice, preparing the so-called. The strategy of Poland Lad, informed the public that such a solution would be implemented. Farmers, listening to government television, now come to the parliamentary offices and ask why, despite the entry into force of some tax solutions, so-called. The Polish Deal of this solution still does not exist. Although they have reached retirement age, women - 60 years old, men - 65 years old, cannot receive full retirement. They're getting a contribution pension. On the other hand, the supplementary part of the agricultural pension is suspended because it has not provided a document on the cessation of agricultural activities. Of course, today the law allows that if a farmer, for example. transfer ten-year lease to the holding, then he will be entitled to a full pension. But much of these people, without their successor in the family, do not want to be involved in such long contracts at the age of 65, 66 or 70. Therefore, they expect a certain history of justice. Because if, in the general system, after reaching retirement age and obtaining pension rights, you can work without problems, they also expect a similar solution. This was due to enter into force since January this year, unfortunately this document is still missing, and the information received from the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development shows that these works are only being carried out there. And today we have 1 154 376 farmers, households and their families insured at the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. It is worth recalling that these benefits are not high. They are at the level of these lowest benefits. Last year's benefits are on average PLN 1310,92. It is also worth knowing that the average sickness benefit per day for the farmer is PLN 10.8 - for the day of sickness insurance of the farmers. All the more so I ask you to speed up this work (the Bell) so that farmers reaching retirement age can receive full retirement without the need to transfer the succeeding agricultural holding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u358	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left. There is no Member. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u359	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! According to the Central Statistical Office, inflation was 8.6% in December 2021. That's more than economists predicted. Prices are rising, less and less is left in the wallets of Poles. Even the government noticed and took action within the framework of the so-called. Anti-inflationary shield. In December 2021 the excise duty on fuel was reduced and from February also VAT on fuel is to be reduced from 23% to 8%. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki boasts in the media that thanks to this activity the price of petrol will be 5 PLN per litre. At the same time, when the government in its shields promotes fossil fuels and individual transport, Poles and Poles using collective transport must pay more. In December, ticket prices increased by 5% up to almost 16% the largest railway carrier in the area of railway transport, Polregio. On 7 January this year, we learned from the press release that prices are also increasing PKP Intercity. The passengers received 6 days to get to know the new price list. From this point on, I would like to ask the question of what is worse for those who use in turn or buses instead of cars. Why have these people not been covered by any anti-inflationary shield? Do students, students and seniors have too much money in their wallets and are therefore punished by the government with increases that relate to train tickets and bus tickets? Passengers of collective transport exist. They're also voters. They'd like to benefit from the anti-inflationary shield, too. A few specific questions: When will you reduce excise duty for collective transport? When are you going to reduce the toll for access to railway infrastructure? What about the train fare that drains the carriers? These are questions that cannot be answered in your shield. Will you once again enter into a dialogue with the European Commission on zero VAT for railway tickets? I would also like to ask why a weekend ticket has been abolished among passengers, although the infrastructure resort of Minister Bittel's mouth in response to the interpellation assured me that there would be no such liquidation. It was the only offer for people who could not afford to travel at the basic prices offered by PKP Intercity. In Poland, there are still not enough people who choose collective transport, we still haven't rebuilt the potential of the railway, but, as you can see, according to the government, too many people use trains and demand needs to be reduced. As far as discouragement is concerned, Law and Justice is the master. First, the government spokesperson argued that coronation virus infections occur in buses, although it was a lie, unconfirmed by scientific research. Then the Ministry of Education discouraged the use of collective communication. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an idea that could only appear in the head of someone who lives in a big city and works (the bell) in some skyscraper. Thousands of students use organized collective transport each day because there is no other way to reach school. And now you're raising ticket prices while reducing petrol prices. Is that supposed to be a good change in travel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u360	Thank you, Member. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel. There isn't. Mrs Teresa Pamula, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u361	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! January 22nd was the 159th anniversary of the January Uprising. After Russia's defeat in 1856 the Poles realized the weakness of the conqueror. This strengthened the independence tendencies among the young generation of Poles, no longer remembering the tragedy of the November Uprising. Since 1860 numerous manifestations of independence and anti-Russian influence have begun. Violent protesting by the Russians caused even more radicalisation of social sentiments. The direct reason for the outbreak of the January Uprising was so-called. The banquet, or forced conscription to the Tsar's army, was to hold 12,000. young Poles, mainly associated with the underground organizations of the radical Red Camp. On 22 January 1863 the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the The Interim National Government issued a manifesto in which he called on Poles to fight the carat. The symbol of the insurgents was the emblem depicting the Eagle, Pogoń and Archangel, i.e. the coat of arms of Poland, Lithuania and Russia. After the start of the war, the Interim National Government issued a call on 7 February 1863, defining the role of Prussian and Galicia's recruitment in the uprising, calling on volunteers from these provinces to join the national ranks, calling for supplies of weapons and ammunition. According to the Uprising Command, Galicia, including a part of the Yolk region with Lubaczow, Cieszanow, Narol, Płazow and Oleszyce, was to serve as a back room where volunteers were gathered, weapons and ammunition were collected, and other supplies for volunteers entering the Kingdom. This region is currently the area of the district from which I come. The organization of aid in Galicia was dealt with by the Lviv Main Court, composed mainly of landowners. To this end, the organisation has been divided into existing circuits, designating the heads of the circuits responsible for the organisation and coordination of the activities. E.g. the head of the Przemysl and Sanocki circuits was Prince Adam Sapieha, and the Żółkiewski district, which includes the area of today's Lubaczowski district, is a Member of Stanisław Polanowski. They bought weapons, ammunition, and clothing for volunteer volunteers. In addition, aid committees were set up on their own initiative in order to organise aid, e.g. City Committee of Lviv, Committee of Brothers' Assistance. The Polish Women's Committee was established, which dealt with among others. the provision of clothing, organization and running of hospitals, as well as the awakening and warming of the national spirit of Poles. Antoni Jeziorski, Marcin Borelowski and Leon Czechowski should be mentioned from the designated commanders of insurgent troops forming in the Lubaczów district. The concentration places were forest areas adjacent to the Russian border, which are mainly the property of Zamoyskie, Działyńskie and Sapieh families. These owners supplied troops with weapons (the bell), organized clothing and food. In their goods and their efforts in Lubaczów, Cieszanow and Oleszyce were arranged well-stocked field hospitals. Go ahead and finish it, Member. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u362	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u363	Since 24 January, a wage strike organized by the Confederation of Labour and Solidarity has taken place in Solaris in Wielkopolska. The employer refuses to grant employees a raise of PLN 800, even though the company is in excellent financial condition: it has recorded more than PLN 100 million in profit and has huge financial reserves. Instead of raisings, the workers saw more views of the farm management system. In accordance with Polish and international law, trade union representatives, experts and trade union lawyers were not allowed to enter the company. The board says it's not in the company's best interest. According to Art. The 59th Constitution shall ensure freedom of association in trade unions and trade unions shall have the right to organise employee strikes and other forms of protest within the limits laid down in the Act. The Board of Solaris seems to think that it is not subject to Polish legislation. The attitude of the board is best illustrated by the fact that the president of the company honored the employees with his presence only on the fourth day of the protest, asking what it was actually about. For members and members of the Party, it is clear that supporting strikers is in the interests of all employees. Strong trade unions guarantee stable and well-paid jobs. For those who believe that trade unions are in the past or that - I quote an extremely stupid statement - a good entrepreneur, the owner of the plant is the best expressor of the interests of employees, a few facts: in Denmark the level of union is almost 70% , in Sweden - more than 66%, the Danes and Swedes are in the top ten medium-earning societies, taking into account the purchasing power parity in the world, and are among the most equal in wealth to countries in the European Union. According to the U.S. think tank Economic Policy Institute, workers in the U.S. earn an average of over 11%. more than those who don't belong to them. Polish people and Poles have a beautiful and long history of strikes. The first strike in the United States in Jamestown was organized by Poles in 1619. The first strike in the Kingdom of Poland in 1883 was organized by gyrardów spoolers from the flax factory. After World War I, the occupation strikes were called Polish strikes, because they were so often used by Polish workers. The way they creatively approached the organization of Polish protests is illustrated by a weaver strike from 1951, during which the strikers' seat was located in the women's toilet. Party officials, managers, and managers - men themselves - did not dare to enter it. We also remember that the great workers' break of Solidarity began strikes, and it was wage strikes. It is time for this story to add to the success of the strike at Solaris. I call on the Board of Solaris (The Bell) to implement the demands of employees and employees, to comply with Polish law and to take action to strengthen social dialogue within the company. Go ahead and finish. Paraphrasing a classic, there is no democracy without labour democracy. Solidarity is our weapon. Greetings to the striking crew of Solaris. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u364	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jarosław Rzepa. There's no envoy. Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u365	Mr. Liberty Man Kaczyński! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 1994, in exchange for security guarantees recorded in the Budapest Memorandum signed by the United States, Russia and Great Britain, Ukraine gave up its 1800 nuclear warheads. It was done for the sake of safety. all of us, including Poles and Poles. Therefore, now that one of the parties to this agreement wants to attack this country, I would like to express my solidarity with the Ukrainians and Ukrainians who do not have an easy way to freedom, but are still fighting for it, dreaming of the way west, of membership in NATO, in the Union. As a teenager, I went to protests to support the orange revolution. I believed that in a moment you would enjoy full democracy, just as we were happy about it. Later, as an adult, I supported your dedication and unfortunately the victims of Majdan, and again I thought that everything would be okay from now on. Unfortunately, today comes again to fight for your independence, but I believe in your strength and hope that one day you will become a full part of Europe, because you are no doubt part of Europe, you belong to it. There is no fully united Europe without Ukraine. I also want to thank the Ukrainian brothers and sisters who chose Poland for their place of life. Here they work hard, often too much lower rates than Poles and Poles, here they pay taxes, here they raise their children. It is thanks to you that there is no total collapse in the labour market, especially at a time when it is more and more profitable to be on welfare than to go to work. I know that our Polish-Ukrainian history was sometimes not easy, but we should not look back, we should look at what we have in common. Especially today, when there is a real threat to the attack of Putin's Russia and war, we share common values, such as the love of freedom and the fight for independent Ukraine. Chaj is alive a wilful and dependent Ukrainia!
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u366	Thank you, Member. You're welcome, Mr. Konrad Berkowicz, the Confederation. There's no envoy. Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u367	For 4 days there has been a general strike in Wielkopolska Solaris. He's hitting 90%. production workers in all plants. Arm-to-arms become unionists with OPZZ.Confederation of Labour and Union Solidarity. How one fist protests electricians, painters and welders. Everyone demands higher wages and equal treatment. They fight for decent wages and fair distribution of profits, for which Solaris, a European leader in electromobility in the public transport sector, cannot complain. But the Solaris strike isn't just a money fight. It's also a fight for justice. Because, as the company itself admits, the money for the raises is. What employees demand is that this money be distributed fairly. To get them not only to a narrow group of managers, but also to direct production workers, whose hard work is the salt and the foundation of large profits of the company. The Third Republic was founded on the shoulders of the strikers of workers, yet its subsequent decades disappear under the sign of widespread violation of workers' rights, prosecution of trade unions and obstruction of the constitutional right to strike. Polish employees still listen to the same song. When you have to work hard for the company's success, they hear that this success will also be a success for employees and that the tide will pick up all boats. And then it turns out that the tide of the presidents' boats turns into luxury yachts, and the employees' boats leave them on the ground. The huge profits of corporations are consumed by a narrow group of executives, and the employees are most likely hit by crumbs from your table. That is why organised resistance and strong trade unions are so important and valuable. The Left stands behind the workers and expresses its full support and support for the workers and the Solaris crew and other establishments where there is already a strike today or any day. Greetings to the striking Solaris crew. Today, the whole working Poland is looking at you. All of Poland supports you and all of Poland supports you. Stay strong. Your pressure is already working. She's the reason you're gonna sit down tomorrow and negotiate with the board of directors. Remember, when you fight for your rights, for a decent job and pay, you fight for values that affect all of us. Thank you so much for that. Solidarity is our weapon.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u368	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u369	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It is the end of January, so it is the first month of implementation of the Polish Order. And actually we spent a lot of time during this meeting of the Sejm, when we tried to repair this failed project, which is Polish Load. It's not transparent, it's very complicated, it's complicated. One might say that it is actually a mess or a mess. Why? After all, there was a proper preparation. Test it, discuss it with practices, entrepreneurs, economists, accountants mentioned today, to which we have repeatedly referred. So you could have done it differently, better. There's no information on who's gonna get what they're gonna get, who's gonna lose what they're gonna get. There are only general declarations that this will benefit. You try to make this economic agenda, tax program properly propaganda, which was intended to serve certain political purposes. This will result in bad results, which is why it is important to take advantage of the last moment and carry out a certain authentic, true review. I think there are still some changes that could fix this bad project. Especially since we have a special situation. There is a pandemic, expensive, inflation, which have different conditions, various causes and external, and domestic, as well as the negligence of the Polish government, the negligence of the National Bank of Poland. They're all over each other. Therefore, it may be worth to postpone Poland's Load and introduce only some elements, such as the tax-free amount or others, those which would benefit people, but still give time to talk, discuss and implement it in a prepared, tested way, from next year, [[♪ The bell ♪]] since 2023. I think it'll benefit. It's not going to bring political losses, which I'm sure the PiS is afraid of. It takes courage, and the situation requires such courage, and it is worth considering seriously the translation of the Polish Order. [[Applause]] for 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u370	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u371	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the list of undesirable institutions in schools, developed by Małopolska curator Barbara Nowak, there is a Jewish Center in Oświęcim, a Polish-American foundation. Before the war, Jewish and Christian residents were neighbors in Auschwitz. Almost all Jewish oświęcimies were murdered because the Third Reich launched a campaign of hatred, exclusion and then mass murder against them. These are the words of the director of the centre of Mr. Tomasz Kuncewicz. Today, on the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims, flowers were placed under the statue of the Heroes of the Ghetto. a large delegation of Members of the Left. There were dozens of us. I am very pleased that we have participated today in the celebration of this very difficult and memorable day. And as we remember, in 2005, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the International Day of Remembrance for Holocaust Victims. High Izbo! I still wanted to show you the picture. It's a picture. When I see this picture of a little girl at the invitation, I feel real pain, real pain. And to be honest, I'm very sorry and sad that the Sejm didn't honor the memory of the murdered today. #WeRemember. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u372	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u373	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Today we celebrate the day we remember the victims of the Holocaust. I will now read the draft resolution on this matter. On the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims in pain, we bow our heads before six million European Jews murdered during World War II. Half of them were Polish Jews. 27 January 1945 is the day of liberation of the Nazi concentration and extermination camp Auschwitz-Birkenau. Today only a few Jewish communities live in Poland - descendants of the Holocaust Survivors - and anti-Semitism is still an unresolved social problem, which requires a strong response of all of us: politicians and politicians, representatives of state institutions, teachers, but also all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Poland. We - Members of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland have a special obligation to disseminate knowledge and maintain the memory of the Holocaust. We agree that we will publicly and unambiguously stigmatize acts of anti-Semitism, so that Poland will remain a safe homeland for all, regardless of religion. Our shared responsibility is to maintain the memory of these terrible events in the past, as well as actions aimed at the future, including the education of the young generation. We must teach and remind about the sources and consequences of Nazism or racism in order to prevent the development of hate ideology. Auschwitz did not fall from the sky. Only through a shared memory of a painful past beyond political divisions and a consistent condemnation of the reprehensible incidents and acts of anti-Semitism and intolerance can we stop this tragic story from happening again. Poland is and will be an open and secure country for all. I very much regret that the Sejm of the Republic of Poland was unable to adopt this resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-27-sejm-47-2.u374	Thank you, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 1 February 2022 until 3 p.m. 16. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 20 min 51]]
