ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators! I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. The senators in the Senate building! Please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the meeting. The Senators taking part in the meeting remotely! I'd like to inform you that in 15 minutes, we're gonna block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen! We will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators taking part in the sitting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted and so many are currently attending the sitting. Dear Senators! I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Law on Civil Procedure and the Law on the Restructuring of Debts of Farmers of Agricultural Farms and considering it as item 8 of the agenda; the establishment of an Extraordinary Commission to clarify cases of illegal surveillance, their impact on the electoral process in the Republic of Poland and on the reform of special services and to consider it as item 9 of the agenda; the appointment of members of the Monetary Policy Council and consider it as item 10 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Mr. Senator Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm against it. And I make such a request not to complete the agenda for the appointment of an emergency committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u3	Thank you very much. I understand that there are votes in favour because that was the conclusion of a group of senators. I would also like to clarify the issue of the RPP. The doubts of the lawyers have been resolved, we can make a choice, and the continuation will be done, so to speak, post-electionally. We therefore proceed to the vote on my proposal, but only for the emergency committee. Because I understand there's no objection to the other two points? Yes, Mr. Chairman? Thank you very much. Dear Senators, we therefore proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of putting a point on the agenda: the establishment of an Extraordinary Commission to clarify cases of illegal surveillance, their impact on the electoral process in the Republic of Poland and the reform of special services? Who's in favour? Press the button and raise your hand. Please report the results... [[Voice from the room: Who opposes?]] Who's against it? I'm sorry. I've already seen that they're against it, so that... Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm tired of joking on my lips, but I'm sorry. I've already seen who voted against, so that... Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 1]] The point has therefore been introduced. I would like to inform you that the vote on the appointment of an emergency committee will take place immediately after consideration of this point. Then there will be another vote on the acceptance of the election of the chairman of this committee. Dear Senators, since we are expecting an urgent government bill to enter the Senate to compensate for the dramatically rising gas prices to be processed at this meeting of the Sejm, the Seniors Convention has decided to speed up the senate's call. The meeting would take place on 20 and 21 January of this year. If there are any amendments, the Sejm will be able to deal with them at its meeting on 25 and 26 January so that this law, which is valid for people affected by horrendous increases, can enter into force as soon as possible. That's the decision I made. If this bill comes to us, then this is the date of the sitting, and if not, which is unlikely, we will deal with it within the normal time frame. But please be spiritually prepared for an additional meeting. Then... We are working to have the meeting deleted on February 2. We will try to get rid of all the laws on 20 and 21 January, so that the next meeting would be on 17 February or 16 and 17 February... Anyway, these days. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate agricultural farmers' trade in retail. The text of the Act is contained in print No 598 and the report of the Commission In print No 598 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, a report on the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the conduct of retail trade by farmers; print No 598. After a brief discussion, ladies and gentlemen, the committee considered that no amendments should be made and the law adopted. I would like to point out that in the Seym 444 Members voted in favour of this law, and there were no votes against and no one abstained, i.e. almost the entire Chamber voted it. It is a law which gives the possibility to introduce 2 essential things, i.e. to increase the tax exemption threshold From 40 000 to 100 000 s as well as the abolition of restrictions on the sale of own products contained in this previously amended law many times. It is about extending the sales opportunities to many points such as shops, restaurants, cafés. Now this possibility is extended to the whole country, so we are aiming to make it especially small farmers, because these are small productions, to give them the opportunity to process products or plants, whether they are animals, so that those farmers who have small farms can gain some greater income by selling their processed products and with this added value have a higher income. This is expected by farmers. On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, please support this. Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, I've finished my report.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u5	Excuse me. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I'd like to see a list of invited government representatives to greet them by name. Excuse me, Faux pas in the area of Savoir-vivre. I would like to welcome Mr Krzysztof Cięcóra, who waved so nicely at the Senate meeting and thank you for your presence. You have a question for the government representative, Senator Pup. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u6	Dear Minister, this is a bill in some way expected by some farmers. Of course, not by all farmers, because not every farmer is able to sell his agricultural fetuses in such a way. He must also take care of his farm, so there is often no time to go to the market and sell his products. But what number of farmers will this law apply to?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u7	Please, Minister. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! Currently covered by this Act. because this Act is amended, so its provisions are currently being used by farmers of 14 000 entities that have made themselves known. This number increases from year to year. We anticipate that this will also happen after this amendment. The notification procedure is simplified, there are no additional difficulties for this entity who is interested in using this solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u9	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Mr. Senator Pup.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u10	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! The law is indeed expected by farmers, by 14 000 farmers, as the Minister himself noted, but in Poland there are currently around 1 million agricultural holdings registered. This shows that this law will not apply to all farmers due to the nature of the production. It is good that 14 000 farmers will benefit from this, you can say, the benefits of this law and also consumers will be satisfied in some way because they will receive food... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please focus on your deliberations.]] ...directly from the farmer. Is this bill important to these 14 000 farmers? Well, we saw a parliamentary vote in which all the voters were in favour of this bill, no one was against it, no one abstained. But let me say, I can take advantage of this situation, that this law is being considered, and draw the attention of the Minister, the Ministry of Agriculture, to the fact that it is not only the need to bind very small farmers or farmers to consumers who want to sell directly small quantities of goods for the consumer's needs. It would be good if we thought, Minister, about bringing about the situation in the West. We often break open doors, looking for different kinds of explanations, solutions, ideas, and these ideas are often used in other countries. These ideas were also known in Poland at one time, but often no one wants to use these ideas. We all pretend we can't do things. What do I mean? Once, before we entered the European Union, I was an MEP and vice-chairman of the agricultural committee in the Sejm. Between 1997 and 2001, we were on a trip to show us what EU agriculture looks like in the European Union. We were in Portugal, Ireland and somewhere else. We'd check it out, we'd visit it, and we'd watch it look like agriculture. And I remember that when I saw this Western agriculture in Portugal, when I came to Poland I said: in many cases the farm is in better condition, in better condition than in this Western agriculture, the problem was generally one. I asked the young farmers: where are you selling this stuff? Those melons, those tomatoes you plant, and all the other vegetables. And they said, "We have contracts with bets, with processors, and they take them away from us." And the whole philosophy was that there's a connection between the processor and the farmer. We want to link them symbolically, so to speak, or give the consumer a chance to supply the farmer with good agricultural goods. But the problem is that we make an organizational effort. I think it would be possible to lead to such a situation that by means of reasonable contract agreements... And such models in Poland functioned in the past, but now they also arise. By all means, I use a model that allows small farmers to sell their products, agri-food products, cereals, soya and other agricultural products. A person who buys this kind of stuff from small farmers and then sells it further to the interested ones. And I think that if we created such a model, it would be an effective model and a correct model, a model that would relieve the burden, one could say, in many matters of the farmer. ♪ 'Cause today's the farmer ♪ That's what I'm gonna say. He is also a producer and agronomist and economist. He must be a manager and a mechanic. It's all on the farmer's head. And we have a lot of institutions around agriculture that work. There's practically a director in every one, there's a deputy director in every one, there's an accountant in every one of them... And many of the financial resources that you give to agriculture do not somehow reach agriculture precisely because of the lack of proper organisation in the countryside and in agriculture. In my opinion, that's why we have a problem with this. I may be looking through the prism of Podkarpackie, Małopolska, part of Lublin and Świętokrzyskie, but I am looking through this prism because I come from there. And I'm watching what that agriculture looks like around there. Because if you look globally at agriculture, at the village, you also have to look regionally and notice that the other is agriculture in Wielkopolska, others in Małopolska, Podkarpacie, and others in my colleague Jozia Łyczak in Kujawsko-Pomorskie. And that's what you have to pay attention to. 'Cause a big farmer's gonna be okay somehow. He does not need this intermediary body, but a fairly intermediate body, which could serve him and would make an organizational effort to manage agricultural fruits. And that is why, Minister, I have used this retail element to draw attention to the fact that it is also possible to take such measures, which will serve the organisation and the better and more efficient disposal of these goods, which will benefit the farmer as well as the consumer. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u11	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Here's what I'm gonna say. My previous speaker has already said a lot, and I do not want to repeat these words, but I must ask the Minister on behalf of farmers for a little more commitment to make it easier for farmers to produce or actually process these products. I have special attention about this law, of course, only about agricultural trade in processed products. For the sake of explanation, it's not that when you grow plants or animals, you can sell them from now on. It was and can be sold, and this is about processing these products. This added value will be increased, i.e. the intermediaries will not earn, and consumers will not have to overpay. We're shortening this chain. This is the direction that the European Commission is imposing at the moment and saying that as short as possible... That's the direction. Here's the point, Minister. The last time we spoke was at the agricultural bureau meeting, you were there. And the agricultural position of "Solidarity" was such as to make it easier to simplify the rules on pig breeding, i.e. pigs, for those who can't grow today. We note that the same rules are for large farms and small farmers. Today, no one can raise one pig without registration, and a small host does not meet those requirements that are for large farms. You have to do some shut-off, reduce these restrictions, so that, for example, you can grow up to 10 pieces and then process them. If this small farmer can't raise a flock because he can't meet the requirements, he won't be able to process it either. So, the request... We have already discussed this with the main veterinarian who believes that there is a possibility that certain derogations may be applied so that these requirements are not the same as for large farms. We understand there's an ASF problem, there's a struggle with ASF. We understand all these... But if it's locked in a circle, it'll be easier for farmers to grow and process. Because that's how it's gonna turn out that we're only gonna have big farms and that only big farms are gonna produce cattle. And we're not gonna be any different from the others. The taste of good pork, of our native races... that's not gonna happen, and we're all gonna eat what the Danes or others have. And there's only going to be overlay production. Pay attention to that. We want farmers to be able to produce these highest quality Polish flavors, otherwise we will lose those Polish flavors, which we have known for years. Even before the war... Our grandparents always mention what kind of sausage it used to be, what kind of products it was. One can make very good products, and the other can fill so many preservatives that really this quality of food is beginning to be questionable and it is not known whether it is healthy or addictive. The Supreme Audit Office has shown how many additives there are in food. We eat so many of those preservatives that are used only for the sake of trade... Because trade wants products with long durability, and we think products with short durability without preservatives, without other additives They're the safest. And that is the possibility of agricultural retail trade. Just give the farmers the opportunity to grow so they can... Otherwise we will eliminate native breeding, family breeds in Poland and we will only have what is in the west. Hence the appeal for action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u13	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Janusz Gromek.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u14	Mrs. Marshal, can I have a moment? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please.]] I fully support what Senator Pup and Senator Chróścikowski have said. Thousands of Polish farmers not so long ago had 200 pigs, 300, 150. An example of my cousin who doesn't have... Well, maybe it does, but quietly, because there are no rules. What's the problem? It's about how Mr. Senator said Polish farmers should grow Polish pigs, tasty. For example, I'm going to tell you what happens to those pigs that are raised in small farms, they're still raised. A Danish man who owns a big farm comes and buys a pig from this farmer, not his own. What does that mean? That he buys a good pig, good meat, but not at his place. Me and many Poles would like to buy such pigs from our farmers, because they are much healthier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u15	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that senators Alexander Szwed, Mariusz Gromko, Ryszard Świlski, Benjamin Godyla, Viktor Durlak, Alice Zając, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Maciej Łuczak, Mieczysław Golba, Przemysław Błaszczyk, Józef Łyczak presented their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crime against the Polish Nationals. The text of the Act is contained in print No 599 and the report of the Commission In print No 599 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present to you the opinion of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. As you know, the bill concerns the creation of a new museum at the IPN. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee met on 5 January. The Commission requests that the bill be rejected, with such a request to the ladies and gentlemen of the senators. I'm putting it in your hands, Marshal. Now I'm going to explain briefly what the committee was doing. Let me add that the vote was unanimous. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft of the bill on the Institute of National Remembrance was a parliamentary project, not a government project, and I will return to that later. The aim was to introduce legal solutions, advocated by IPN, in the area of commemoration of fights and martyrdom by the Institute, including as part of the possibility of running the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic in Warsaw. The Act proposes that, in order to ensure the proper conduct of the construction and operation of the museum, the Council of Ministers should, within 14 days of the entry into force of the Act, adopt a resolution on the establishment of a multiannual programme on the subject. The construction of the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic in Warsaw. This bill will have immediate financial consequences within two weeks. The museum is to be the only facility of this type, which will not be subject to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, but to the Institute of National Remembrance. And then there's the information that's important in the debate on the bill. The cost of rebuilding the former detention in Rakowiecka, the Museum of Cursed Soldiers, increased by nearly 400 million. Ladies and gentlemen, the arrest at Rakowiecka was closed in 2016. In 2017, the architectural competition was decided. That's what he did. The Minister who declared at the time that the museum would be built until 1 March 2019. The construction did not begin until today. So far, there's no money for that. In the meantime, last year, the museum came to New Deal, so to speak, to this project in part, which does not concern the change of taxes and various such things, but is more ideological in nature. And in May no longer Minister Jak, only I think Minister Kaleta announced that under the New Deal the museum would cost 300 million PLN. Minister Kaleta, presenting the bill we are discussing today at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Culture and Media But it was confirmed later at our committee meeting that the construction costs of the museum are well known because the documentation is already in place and the proposal for a multiannual programme is included in the annex to the bill. In total, it is distributed for the years 2022 to 2027, i.e. in 2027 this investment would end and the museum would be given up. But now Minister Kaleta has stated that the total costs are to be PLN 682 million. What the Senators emphasized And I think you've noticed that, too. This is a rare amount in general when we discuss museums. And, of course, it raises doubts about what really happened between May and the moment when this bill came in, when the amount increased by such a huge amount, by 400 million PLN. This is amazing. I hope the Minister will explain all this to you today. I would like to remind you that this amount of 300 million was given after the architectural competition was decided, this is the version from May this year, this 300 million is from May this year. And today we have almost 700 million zlotys. But not only were the substantive issues discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media. I'll admit, we didn't even focus much on... well, there were reservations, among other things. As to the name of the museum, but mostly we focused on the legal matter, on the cost of the museum, on the way in which it was conducted, and on what would happen in the future if this law were accepted by the High Senate. Therefore, let me once again quote the legal arguments, very, very well signalled by the counsel of Renata Bronowska from our Legal Office, and I will briefly remind you of the basic assumptions of this legal opinion. So once again, but already in the legal aspect. The Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic in Warsaw was created by order of the Minister of Justice of 4 April 2016. It was created, like the others, like other museums... Because not all museums... As you know, there are various types of museums in Poland, some are subject to local governments, are created by local governments, etc., etc. The bill makes that very clear. On 2 March 2020, the museum was transformed into a national cultural institution with the Minister of Justice as the organizer, supervisory authority and entity providing funds for maintenance and development. It was all legal and practical. I would remind you that at that time the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, according to the Act, had some control, insight into all of this, etc. And what do we have today? This law prejudices that the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic is a national cultural institution acting on the basis of the statute given by the President of the Polish National Remembrance Institute, as well as the Act of 18 December 1998 on the Institute of National Remembrance. It therefore refers to the National Remembrance Institute Act, which does not mention a museum. But let me remind you that the law on organizing and conducting cultural activities is crucial here. The following provisions will not apply to the activities of the museum, which should be applied in all museums. Art. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 establishes an obligation to agree on the statutes of the museum with the Minister responsible for cultural and national heritage protection That's not gonna happen. Art. 8 talks about the supervision of the museum by the Minister responsible for cultural and national heritage protection That's not gonna happen. I would add that this supervision will not be exercised by the Minister of Justice either, because it is already completely moving to the IPN. The article will not be respected. Eleven, that is, the obligation to create a museum council. Art. 23 gives the possibility to sell or donate museums after obtaining the permission of the Minister responsible for cultural and national heritage protection. Art. 4 creates rules for removal from the inventory. Art. 27 talks about the establishment of rules for the management of museums in the event of the liquidation of the museum by the Minister responsible for Culture and National Heritage That's not gonna happen. Everything the Minister of Culture has decided so far will now be decided by the President of the IPN. The holding of the museum by the President of the Polish Academy of Sciences is intended as a form of implementation of tasks related to commemorating the fights and martyrdom of the Polish people. The President of the IPN was obliged to submit annual information to the Sejm and the Senate about the activities of the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic. So it's not like there's gonna be absolutely no control here. A report on this activity shall be submitted to the committee. However, in fact, no one else but the president of the IPN will manage or decide this museum. I would like to point out that art. 5 extends the duration of the permits obtained by the museum, including construction permits, until 31 December 2023. The list of decisions which will not expire before the date indicated shall be annexed to the Act. These are all the building permits that were issued after the architectural competition was decided. And now... I'll be right back to what it means, but unfortunately, this record is probably against the constitution. Of course, we can't say that, the Constitutional Court could say that, but I would point out that this is a serious flaw in this law. The Act in Chapter 6d provides that the authority of the organizer of the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic is taken over by the President of the IPN. The status of the organiser shall be determined by the Act of 20 October 1991, providing that the organisers are the bodies forming the cultural institutions referred to herein, i.e. ministers, managers of central offices and local government units. The organizer shall issue an act on the establishment of a cultural institution in which he determines the subject matter of the action, the name, the seat, etc. Also, the Law of 21 November 1996 on museums does not indicate any State bodies other than those I mentioned as entitled to create a museum. So that this is a manifest flaw of this law, it was simply wrongly, faultyly constructed. Another thing from the legal opinion. It should be noted that the President of the IPN, being a public authority which is within the structure of government administrations, is not This is the result of a literal interpretation of the provisions laid down It is entitled to organize and run a museum as a national cultural institution. There is simply no legal basis for the museum to be created in this way. In addition, the analysis of Article. The 53rd Act indicates that the President of the IPN does not fully assume the authority of the organizer, because he was not entitled to issue an act on the creation of the museum, but takes over the powers of the previous organizer in the field of running this museum. These are the flaws that show... And one more thing. The proposed separate regulation should be characterised by a sufficient degree of detail to enable proper reconstruction of the legal standards on which the museum will operate. The separate regulation contained in the opinion of the law is relatively cheap, cost-effective, does not allow to obtain an answer to important questions concerning the functioning of the museum. So that there is such a charge that this law does not settle matters which should be settled, and there are special laws which concern different museums and in which all these doubts are settled. This bill doesn't settle it. For this reason, there are doubts even about the fact that the museum has legal personality and the effectiveness of legal activities carried out in the period between deletion and entry in the new register. It's just wrongly specified in the bill. It is also unclear whether the statutes to be issued by the President of the IPN are the statutes of the organisation or the applicable statutes. It's just been forgotten. The Act does not regulate the rules for the appointment and dismissal of the Museum Director, limited to the conclusion that this competence is conferred on the President of the IPN. The application of Article is therefore excluded. The 15th Act on Cultural Activity, which sets out the procedure for the appointment of the Director of Cultural Institutions, indicating the actors involved in the proceedings, as well as the grounds for the cancellation of the Director of the Museum. The law also excludes the application of Article. 16, which provides for the possibility of setting up a director by means of a competition, which was, after all, normal practice and is still used in such cases. Finally, the article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 indicates legal acts, i.e. laws and statutes, on the basis of which the museum operates, which is a substantively unnecessary and incorrect legislative solution. But let's leave it. Let's just say that there are things in this bill that shouldn't be in it. However, it should be noted that among the mandatory elements of the Statute there are no data which the Museums Act requires to be included in the statutes of these institutions, which are the area of operation of the museum, the governing and supervisory body and the advisory bodies and the manner in which they are appointed, as well as the rules for amending the statutes. Let me remind you that when the minister's statutes are issued, this is a completely different situation. It's actually up to the head of I.P.N. here, and it's really up to me. Once again, I stress that. This is contrary to the laws in force so far in Poland. I will ignore inconsistencies in terms of terminology, it is not clear the meaning of concepts such as installation, device, object. I understand that neither the IPN nor the Ministry of Justice has much experience in running cultural institutions and museums, regardless It would be worth it if this bill were written right. And the last thing I mentioned was presumably unconstitutional. Art. 5 The Act provides for the extension of the administrative decisions obtained by the museum which constitute a building permit or a permit for the demolition of buildings or buildings. Those decisions shall not expire before 31 December 2023. This Regulation is an expression of legislative interference with the content of final administrative decisions. However, this effect is not due to changes in the substantive provisions of the law. Content of the Article 5 is of an incidental nature and has the effect of maintaining the powers deriving from these decisions to circumvent the applicable laws... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, time.]] ...only by the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic in Warsaw. What's the reason? COVID. I would like to point out that the current epidemiological situation has already repeatedly led to the introduction of legal solutions aimed at extending the validity of certain documents, permits and licences. We made those decisions here in this room. This was done by law and it would seem that COVID could possibly be legally justified. But I would like to remind you that all these solutions were of a general nature and shaped the legal situation of all the addressees of these standards. This legal standard favours one entity and must therefore be negatively assessed in the context of the constitutional principle of equality. What does that mean? That it is the only museum in Poland, the only cultural institution that can afford to extend building permits without applying for it. The only privileged institution. Well, that's against... Because everyone would want to, but some institutions, and local governments, and the state ones, etc., if they find themselves in a similar situation, will have to apply for an extension of the building permit. And that's it. In fact, that would be enough legal justification to... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, time is up.]] Oh, excuse me. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll cut it short, and then I'll answer the questions. So, yeah, the first basic thing is that the cost is huge, close to 700 million. The second thing: this is a bad bill that contains serious flaws. The third thing is that IPN is not prepared to run these kinds of institutions, such museums... The IPN may still be prepared to run the institution, but it is certainly not prepared to invest for 700 million. There is also a lack of supervision by the competent minister. The head of the IPN is actually the only person who decides everything. We don't know what Senator Martynowski asked about the employees. Because it is not specified, and according to what is in this law, the director of IPN actually decides everything. We don't know what's going on with the employees, so... and that's the question: what happened in six years that nothing happened, and we get this expensive project when you're in such a deep crisis? And this is one of those... For me, this financial argument was decisive. Can Poland afford such a thing at the moment? A strange and bizarre moment is when, after more than 6 years of operation, the PiS suddenly makes such an expensive decision. Especially since we recently voted for the 2 billion for the Saski Palace, which also aroused huge controversy. So that's it. Thank you. Sorry, Mrs. Marshal, for the extension.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Sławomir Rybicki's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Ms Senator, during the committee meeting was the issue of possible cooperation, possibly submission and some systemic solution in terms of the functioning of the already existing Museum of Cursed Soldiers in Ostrołęka The state cultural institution subordinate to the Minister of Culture? Were there any conversations, possible decisions, arrangements in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u19	No, we didn't talk about it at the cultural committee meeting, and it wasn't explained either. Although, of course, the members of the cultural committee have... It was mentioned that there was such a museum, so there was a question: why another one? I don't know if this museum is over, because it's having some trouble... [[There it is, it's over.]] But is it already committed? Is there a permit... [[On 1 March, the permanent exhibition will be launched.]] Oh, March 1st is the launch of the exhibition... [[Yeah, a constant.]] On 1 March the permanent exhibition will be launched, therefore the museum does not yet function, Ladies and Gentlemen, although it was already given a year ago. So much for your question, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u20	Senator Halina Poor's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u21	Thank you very much, Marshal. Madam President, I would like to ask whether the exhibition area of the museum was given at the committee meeting. I ask this because it is customary to say that it is so much and so many square meters and then you can calculate the cost of building 1 m2. I'm also asking because two very large museums... In the case of the Museum of World War II, it was 500 million, in the case of the Museum of Polin, 320 million. So I'd like to ask if there was talk of exhibition space at the committee meeting. Then I'll ask about other things.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u22	About this case... We attended a committee meeting of both the representatives of the Ministry and your Museum Director and of course the head of the IPN, and I must tell you that... Well, they had the opportunity to speak, but there were no questions, because we focused on other matters. Nevertheless, the senator is right to ask, because even the amounts I've exchanged... This amount, which I have exchanged and which you mentioned to Minister Kalet at the meetings of our committee and of the Sejm committee, is not included in the bill at all. And let me remind you, for example. in the case of the Saski Palace which I have already invoked here, we had to write the amount in the bill. Why am I saying this? Because having such experience as the Museum of History of Poland, which is still under construction, I am talking about a museum, not an exhibition... Its costs have increased two or three times, and I'm not going to tell you exactly now. This is the way the investments in culture in recent years are simply prolonged and their costs are rising many times. The cost of the museum is the part that concerns the construction of the museum, but in my opinion the concept of the exhibition should be created at about the same time, and we did not see something like this, because the concept of the exhibition also generates huge costs, it also requires a competition, it would be best, and it also requires a long-term development.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u23	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, according to Senator Mammoth's message here, the Museum of Cursed Soldiers in Ostrołęka is functioning, so you're saying it's not true. I am a warm supporter of the Uprising of the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic in Warsaw. I'd like to ask... In your report, you said that the motion for rejection was unanimous. But I have information here that at that time there were meetings of other Senate committees, and not all senators could participate. I would therefore like to ask: how many votes have been cast in favour of this motion for rejection? And what senate clubs voted for him?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u25	Well, I guess it doesn't matter. Here's what I'm gonna say: I don't even remember it right now. But I will also tell you to the senator that not participating in such an important vote for our committee also proves something, and that should tell you something, Senator. And when you say there's a museum that doesn't have a permanent exhibition, it's already in operation... Well, it may be functioning there, we have an example here, the same will work museum, it will just be a museum in the organization, but that doesn't mean it's finished, it's made available to visitors. By the way, I would like to say that you can see it there, you can visit it, it is on the grounds of the former prison. It's just available, there's some stuff already shown. Meanwhile, here we are talking about an investment that is completed, has some stages and the final stage, Mr. Senator, putting the museum into service is the completion of the work and making the permanent exhibition available in the museum, not the fact that there are people working there and they are getting paid. [[Mrs. Marshal, may I ask you a question? I have another question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u26	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u27	Thank you. Mrs Senator, I am surprised that you, as President, regret that the funds for the creation of cultural institutions are intended for culture. I'd like to ask you a question, because in your report, you're clinging to the costs, the procedures, the method of setting up a museum, the body that's gonna run this museum. I would like to ask if such a question was raised at the committee's meeting: was the necessity of the establishment of the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic denied?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u28	That wasn't the kind of voice you heard. We've focused on legal matter. To be honest, like I just said, this institution has been working for a long time. I'm sure it wasn't some major argument not to set up a museum like this. It could be one of many museums, although, as I said, there is already such a museum, I am talking about a museum in Ostrołęka, in which on March 1st, as you noticed the senator, you will be able to watch an exhibition. Only that it does not matter at all, because we as senators should refer primarily to the content of the Act, and in case of cost determination we should respond to these costs. I admit it, because I think that's what you meant by the senator, that I don't recall questioning the purpose of such a facility. Let me remind you that she already exists right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u29	Thank you very much. Senator Halin Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few I'd still like to ask you about a case like this. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 point 2 of the Act states that the buildings resulting from the implementation of the investment will be used for the purposes of the Museum or Institute of National Remembrance. I'd like to ask if that was the case. I'm asking because I realized that this is a law that only leads to the construction of a museum, not to the fact that some of the buildings will be dedicated to the Institute of National Remembrance. I'd like to know if that was the case. [[You're talking about transferring objects.]] Yeah, about the fact that objects can be designed for either the museum or the institute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u31	Yes. We didn't hear much about it at the cultural committee meeting. It was such a strange meeting at which, at the time of presenting the bill, neither the Minister nor the Director focused on dazzling us, they did not present us with any projects or visualizations. So it wasn't mentioned. Probably because there isn't much more to say about it. But I've noticed this. And it's in our Legal Bureau's expertise. That all this is not clarified. Therefore, it will have to be defined by the director of the Institute of National Remembrance. And how he's gonna do it and whether he's gonna do it by the law, by the law, we're only gonna find out when we ask him about it in the course of the report. Ladies and gentlemen, the laws on cultural activity, on museums have been in existence for many years, and everyone knows that when there is no supervision, there are irregularities in the conduct of such institutions. They often involve collections, handing over exhibits, having them, I think that's where I mentioned it. And here, unfortunately, it is not defined. We don't know where it's gonna be, how it's gonna be. Maybe the principal will take care of it, but then there'll be some other director who won't have a head for it, and that oversight won't be appropriate? This is not specified properly in the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u32	Thank you very much. Senator Rafał the locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u33	Mrs. Marshal! Senator, you have already partially answered my question by reacting to Senator Alexander Swede's doubts, but the crushing criticism of this idea has made me think Which, to tell you the truth, I am ashamed that perhaps the committee does not share our conviction and discernment about who was a hero and who was a bandit after the war, and these doubts go towards some kind of narration-promoting, that some issues concerning bandits should be nuanced, because then they dressed up as professors of sociology, well-known conductors or fled to Sweden. But I understand that the senator in this dispute is clearly on the side... that you consider our soldiers heroes and their oppressors to be bandits.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u34	I mean, Mr. Senator, I didn't say anything about it at all. That's one thing. And secondly, I don't know why you're bringing up threads that haven't come up so far either at the committee meeting or in the discussion. I think you'd like to argue with someone, argue about it. Wait for the discussion. Maybe those voices will be there. I'm the committee's rapporteur. And, first of all, that wasn't a question, Mr. Senator, and second of all, I'd really like you to point out that with your statement... [[Mrs. Marshal, correct this statement.]] ...you're provoking a political debate. So, I'm asking you to make a substantive statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u35	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Senator Robert Mammoth's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u36	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Senator, the first thing is that you are trying to compare the Museum of Soldiers Cursed in Ostrołęka with the museum of soldiers cursed and repressed on Rakowiecka. You can't do that. That's why I'm proposing that next time... Next time, I'm gonna ask you to go to your seat and see what the difference is. The Museum of Soldiers Cursed in Ostrołęka operates and the first... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, question.]] Good. I haven't heard anything yet. [[Mr. Senator, you will have time to comment on my comments. Listen to me.]] Okay, but I had to say it... [[Now I'm asking you to focus on the question.]] Okay. [[Voice from the Chamber: Who is holding the meeting?]] I have a simple question: why is there not a single thread in your report that would correct the bill? There's only denial.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u37	Good. I'll be brief, but I think I mentioned it. It is simply not possible to improve this law. It would have to be completely changed, rewritten. I mean, of course you could think of some elements and, for example. transfer supervision to the Ministry of Culture, etc. But since we have a representative of the Minister of Justice in the Chamber today, who was also present at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, we can presume that it was all agreed that it was just supposed to be. And here, unfortunately, the outcome of the vote will be determined by political and not substantive considerations. I also assure you that at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, we focused on the legal considerations concerning the costs of this museum, etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u38	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo. The question is simple... Usually, if the committee suggests rejecting a bill, it must, as you said, be related to the impossibility of improving it. But usually, if there's a bill, it's a reaction to some kind of reality that exists. So here's the thing: there's a reality that needs to be improved. That's how I understand it. And you say as a committee that it's not that kind of text, not that law. Is that what this is about? Well, we can't, in quotes, tolerate the current facts, and the state that the bill proposes is unacceptable. [[Timer signal]] I admit that I would rather have the committee try to improve the text rather than say "No," the next one doesn't, and the next one doesn't either, because this isn't the method.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u40	Here's what I'm gonna say. As far as the content is concerned, the senator agrees with me a little bit that there are mistakes in this bill. We all know that. But here's the other thing: what's the intention? The intent is to transfer this from the Ministry of Justice to the IPN. I perfectly understand the Ministry of Justice, which does not have the resources in its budget to carry out the project for which the tender took place. But I would also like to point out that this has been postponed for years, Mr. Senator, for many years, because there was simply no money for it. How did he suddenly find himself here and in the Seym, unfortunately, as a parliamentary project, although in my opinion such an important project should be a government project? He found himself here because Solidarna Polska probably would have guessed that I had negotiated with PiS that as part of the New Deal of PiS he would spend money on this museum. But you should think about what you're going to do... If the Law and Justice had allocated this 300 million, we might still be wondering, but if suddenly it's close to 700 million, the museum suddenly cost more than twice, then I'd like to know, for example. from the Prime Minister, which has decided here. What's the matter with this museum all of a sudden? Now we get the museum for nearly 700 million, and in two weeks' time, as soon as the President signs the bill, there will be a meeting of the government in which the funding mechanism will be presented, and this funding will be granted. It's amazing. Senator, as I said, at such a time it is worth considering what is currently happening in Poland. I am in favour of spending big money on culture, I am in favour of the development of museums in Poland etc., but I do not know if it is currently The most necessary museum. I remind you that it functions, it functions there somehow. I would point out that we are at the top of the crisis. Such a project can be presented when there really is money for it. Working on the budget, we see how fatal we are: we lack health care, we lack COVID treatment, we lack compensation for entrepreneurs and citizens, taxes rise. And now we're gonna tell the residents that the means of raising those taxes that we're dealing with are gonna go to the museum of the Cursed Soldiers? I don't think society understands that kind of decision.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u41	Thank you. [[If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to ask.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u42	There are new threads, and I'll admit that very interesting, interesting. I understood that the committee went very widely in its competence and addressed financing, taxes, New Deals and yet issues related to, I would call it, the state budget. But we're talking about the text. I didn't find any alternative in your statement, that last answer. You explained why the committee rejected this law, with political arguments rather than substantive arguments. [[Okay, let me get this straight, Mr. Senator.]] Exactly. Is this museum necessary or not? [[Okay, yeah...]] Because it sounded like it wasn't now, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u43	I'll answer you that question the way you asked me, I mean. I'll talk about alternative solutions. I would remind you that there are now hundreds of opposition proposals in the Sejm that contain concrete solutions. [[Timer signal]] They're still in the freezer, including our senate projects. And you're telling me that the opposition is now going to write a good bill for you? It's embarrassing, isn't it? It is embarrassing when the Ministry of Justice sanctiones a bill that is so badly written by some Members. [[May I, Mrs. Marshal? For the last time, then I won't interfere at all.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u44	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u45	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yeah, I was just gonna read it. Or even better to hear what the right motivations are, what this is all about, why the committee wants to reject this bill. And I finally found out. These hundreds of projects may be, but they don't concern this issue, I haven't seen an alternative project. Here's what I'm gonna say. Many times the Senate presented such projects in very different situations. I do not demand or require you as a committee whether they presented such a project as the Chamber in gromio. But thank you so much for explaining. I understand that according to you there are other needs and this museum can be frozen at the moment, you can not do certain work because, as I understand it, the financial situation needs to improve and then we will be dealing with this museum. Thank you for that explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u46	I understand there was no question, but you said what you thought about what I was saying. I'm not going to refer to that.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u47	Senator Joanna Sekuła. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u48	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Senator, rapporteur! I would like to ask if anyone from the Ministry of Culture attended the meeting. Because I am very fascinated by the situation in which the Minister of Culture speaks about the Museum of Polish History, the museum which is to cover the whole Polish history, and at the same time the director of this museum says that it will be a closed story within the framework of: the Gallery of the Piasts and the Jagiellonian Gallery of Poles towards communism, and now there is this law. Did those who submitted this project and even started a discussion about the Museum of Cursed Soldiers and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic find some parallel between these two institutions? But of course I understand that Rakowiecka is a place of execution and deserves to remain in history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u49	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u50	Thank you very much. We had two committee meetings that day. The first one concerned the budget and was attended by Deputy Minister Sellin. We asked the Minister if he would stay at this second meeting of the cultural committee. The Minister said this is not a matter for the Ministry of Culture. But I would like to remind you that the New Deal program, in which the creation of this museum is recorded, was approved by the government in its entirety, so that I think we can consider that, although the Minister of Culture did not want to speak on this subject, but signing himself under the New Deal, it is actually the establishment of such a museum and does not consider it appropriate to enter this museum with some supervision, which would be recorded in the bill in a precise manner. I remind you that this is really the only unit like this. Well, there are many cultural institutions that operate on the basis of special laws. It's our Wrocław Ossolineum. It is established by a special law, etc., etc., it functions, there is an excellent council in which I once had the privilege to sit, even as a self-government officer, but in his case the Minister of Culture views investments. If there are special grants, money, etc., all this is supervised by the Minister of Culture and has representatives on the Ossolineum Council. It's not here at all. Everything here is a matter of the freedom of the President of the IPN. One time it could be the president who can handle it, another time it could be the president who can't handle it. But the worst part is, we can't rule out abuse. This introduced bunk surveillance has already been tested for many, many years and has worked very well in running cultural institutions. I would also like to point out that this museum is financed exclusively by the State. It's right for this... You could say that's a good thing, but these are expensive things. The exception is the museum in Ostrołęka, because I think that's where the local government contributed. No? I'm not sure anymore, but this is a museum built for much less money. I draw attention to the fact that these great institutions that have been created or even now are being created... An example is Camerimage in Toruń, 400 million from the Ministry and 200 million from the local government. So that here there is a mechanism. There used to be huge European funds, and now we don't have European funds. Once these facilities were financed differently, now huge money goes straight out of taxpayers' pockets.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u51	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Once again, Mrs Senator, I am surprised that the chair of the cultural committee regrets that there are additional resources for culture, additional resources for the creation of cultural units. Well, you're talking about other areas that could be used for this. But I would like to ask if, in addition to the negation at the committee meeting, you proposed a change in the host body. I understand you don't like the cost. Did you indicate a different location? If you do not deny the creation of this museum, you could indicate another place where these costs would be lower. Were such proposals presented?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u53	No, but this place isn't exactly... It wasn't raised at the committee meeting at all, it wasn't questioned at all. Such a location has a pretty deep justification. However, you can do what the light towers provide for projects, etc. And you can also renovate something modestly, leave it in the state it is in right now. You can do that. You ask me if I'm glad the government has the money for these investments. I'd be happy if I knew the government had the money, but I think it's all on credit. That's printing money, that's increasing government debt. And that's the problem, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u54	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. Mr Dariusz Olszewski was authorised to present the position of the applicants for the bill. But your MP isn't here. As a result, a government representative... Welcome to the Secretary of State, Minister Kaleta. Do you wish to speak on the bill under consideration? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! During the first part of the discussion of this point, there were many inaccuracies, half-truths, sometimes just incorrect information. I will try to correct them here and persuade the senators, above all the Civic Platform, to support this bill. First of all, I would like to say that this bill does not set up any museum. The museum is here, it's working. Originally, since 2016, it functioned as part of the Prison Service, due to the fact that Rakowiecka was then an active investigative arrest. It was necessary to carry out work within the Prison Service to close the arrest and carry out a series of activities towards the competition. Following this lead, I'd like to tell you 'Cause there's some inaccuracies in this area in the senator's statement. That all necessary competitions in the field of architectural concept and exhibition are already completed. The senator said you couldn't see what it would look like. It's all been publicly available for several years. If I had known that this information had not reached all the senators at the time, I would have completed it, but I would have encouraged you to go to the museum website, on social media, for example, and see visualizations, presentations. All these materials are the result of competitions. For all proposals there is a design and architectural documentation. It's all been finally approved with building permits. Maybe I'll just close the story. There's a charge that the bill is going to extend the building permit. Due to the emergence of COVID, the documentation was closed in January 2020, received and the permit was obtained a few months earlier, and it turned out that there were other financial priorities, and this investment, in short, was waiting for a further fate, for a decision on investment. Authorisations were therefore not granted. However, the allegation that these solutions interfere with the content of the decision is curiosable. Why? Because decisions are made. Their content is to remain unchanged. In this case, the legislator would only and only decide that what is already published in the field of museum construction will be able to be carried out for a longer period of time. It seems to me that the covidary justification in the light of the various other cases that have been dealt with in this mode, by means of legislation, is as adequate as possible. Why are we talking about the individual situation? Ladies and gentlemen, we have a law on a particular institution. If it were a law on all museums, if the legislator wanted to move all museums to IPN, it would probably be a general solution. But we're talking about a law that concerns a particular entity. Now I'm going to move on to the issue of the shape of the bill, whether it's right or wrongly written. In the first place, as the law begins to be written, the effect which the law is to cause shall be determined. This law is intended to have the effect of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance as an IPN body, organizing and supervising the museum. He will also be responsible for carrying out the investment and the Council of Ministers will guarantee him financial resources. The various provisions of the Act implement this objective. It was also intended that the President of the IPN should not be subject to control by the Minister of Culture. Why? 'Cause if we put it in. I'm 100% sure of it. convinced Today, it would be alleged that the IPN is being politicised, that the government will influence the functioning of the IPN, that it will influence the decisions of the President of the IPN. This law retains some consistency with regard to the systemic position of IPN in the Polish order of administrative authorities, authorities. At this level, the designer's intention is also fully implemented. The allegations that the bill has some flaws are not about the wording of the rules, but about the idea that the Members of the law adopted. Their purpose is fully fulfilled in this law. It's a matter of museum status. This issue came in context in the senator's statements and in the answers to questions. The Museum, I would like to make this clear, since 2020 has had a stand-alone legal personality, is a legal person. This law does not affect the museum as a legal person, but does so in the context of its internal system, except for changes which concern the authority which continues to run the museum. I'll tell you more: there's been a charge that the Minister of Culture won't have the authority to delete the museum. Well, he shouldn't have that kind of authority. Since the legislator has adopted a law ordering the President of the IPN to build this museum, the Minister of Culture cannot have the authority to liquidate the museum by another law. It's kind of contradictory. We have a hierarchy of legal sources in Poland. The laws are equivalent in this hierarchy. And to make an assessment, which provision of a particular law is binding in a given situation, simply the rules of interpretation apply. In this case, we are dealing with specific provisions which, in certain areas, indicate specifically what entitlement is given by the President of the IPN. The President of IPN cannot set up a second museum because it is not mentioned in the Act on Cultural Activity. Nevertheless, this law determines that it runs a specific museum. Because it is by law, this law gives such powers to the institute and this law gives it specific responsibilities and competences in this particular case. Thus, this is a special solution in relation to the general principles of functioning of all such institutions in Poland. Moving on to the cost issue, which was also raised... Well, I encourage you. I also spoke to Director Pavlovicz. All your senators, perhaps before the votes, if that's possible... Mr. Director is declaring here if anyone wants to. 'Cause it's close, a few miles from here. That it can show you what this place looks like, it is dramatic for the history of our nation in the 20th century. It's a special place. It is not such a museum as many other museums that we build or build in Poland, that there is a concept, a building from scratch, from foundations and within the adopted concept prepares exhibitions. In Warsaw we have, for example, a museum such as the Polin Museum, in Pomerania we have a Museum of World War II. There are many such investments that have been raised from scratch. Here we have a unique situation, also, I would say, on a European scale, because the whole complex of these buildings is contaminated with the blood of heroes, it is contaminated by the suffering of your colleagues as well. Because what's important about this question is that even about Ostrołęka... [[Voice from the room: Blood-contaminated?]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You're right, Senator. I made a cardinal language error. I'll straighten it out. This complex flows with the blood of Polish heroes, but also with the suffering of many of your colleagues who later were there by the commune prisoners, interned. There is no second such place in Poland, which combines all these events and brings together this effort of our nation to free itself from the occupation of the Soviets and communist oppression. And these are walls that are unbreakable, they are to be restored, in many places even to zero interference, if possible. This is also a very important element of this project. Because, of course, from the outside, it visually looks like there's a lot of interference, because there's going to be a restoration of the facade to the historical state. It's right there, in this building on Rakowiecka... He's warmed up, there's Styrofoam. In addition, IPN has carried out research in this area. Some walls are already exposed for research purposes. Ba, a picture of plasters led to the discovery of the wall of death, before which flowers are laid, before which we always gather on 1 March to pay tribute to Polish heroes murdered there. This investment is therefore exceptional. It's not just building a building, it's just preserving what's important, what needs to be preserved. On the other hand, it is also a large complex of economic buildings. The point is to make it all a coherent whole. It cannot be that, on the one hand, we have a restored main building of custody, with the X Pavilion, which inside will be intact, but on the other hand, the destroying administrative buildings. That's all we've taken in this concept collectively. Why IPN? I move on to this issue fluently. When the Ministry of Justice conducted all these works, which are closed to the issue of financial resources, tender and implementation, it was also within our political camp that discussions were held on the further fate of the institution. It is obvious that the Minister of Justice, within the powers assigned to him by the government, is not the member of the Council of Ministers who is responsible for running museums on such a scale. On the other hand, from the very beginning, from the first day of February 2016, because then formally the first acts to create this initiative were signed by Minister Ziobro... From the first day the Institute of National Remembrance was the main partner for all purposes: research work, substantive work, scientific work, consulting. On a daily basis, IPN employees were involved in all aspects of the creation of the museum, competition works, creation of the concept of exhibitions. And it became natural, when this decision was to be made, that it was the Institute of National Remembrance, with its intellectual, human resources and perhaps a changing vision of its activities in a few years, is the entity within our state bodies, which should run the museum. Because what period of Polish history does the Institute of National Remembrance describe? Well, that's the period, that's the dominant part of the tasks that the IPN performs. What other place in Poland, if not this, can be the best place to present these effects of the work of the Institute of National Remembrance? In my opinion, this is the place. This place may in a few years be the pearl of building Polish national memory and the owner of this place should be the president of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Institute of National Remembrance. A lot of people living... We've been celebrating the 40th anniversary of martial law lately. The opposition state had the opportunity in the 1980s, the 1970s, when you were in opposition... for many of you people whose memory you wanted to cultivate, because you knew that they were getting older, that their memories of fighting for free Poland were increasingly distant, former Warsaw insurgents, soldiers of the AK, Soldiers of the Cursed. Let me put this straight: for my generation slowly this generation, which we must take care of, his memory, his memories, becomes a generation of oppositionists of the 1970s and 1980s. And that's what the museum's gonna do. Many of these opponents pass on souvenirs there, there are several thousand of them. That is why this project is unique. This is a unique project, which will allow Poland for years to effectively show the truth about a difficult period of communist occupation, about a difficult time when Poland was even devoted to this Eastern regime, whether it was communism or perhaps other forms of... This was the result of the de facto oppression of Poles. And we know very well that regardless of these historical changes it is not said that these threats have disappeared forever. All the more so should we show and cultivate the spirit of this struggle, which accompanied the Soldiers of the Cursed, the KOR activists, the Solidarity. I hope that the senators, those who voted against or wanted to vote against this law, will change their minds and together, we will do something good for those whom this place is to honor. Thank you. I'm waiting for questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u56	At present, the senators... Thank you very much. But stay still, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Eve Matecka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u57	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, this law is ruining the system solutions already contained in the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. Therefore, I have the first question, which I ask immediately for an answer, and then I will ask the second question. Please tell me: what are the sources of funding for this museum?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u58	Senator, thank you for that question. Currently, a draft resolution of the Council of Ministers guaranteeing a multi-annual programme for financing the construction of the Museum of Cursed Soldiers and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic is included in the list of legislative works, which assumes, as the senator indicated, the financing of this project until 2027, ultimately all parts of this project, which is known and approved some time ago. This financing formula is currently proposed for this investment. I would just like to add that as far as the current activities of the museum are concerned, i.e. the possibility of introducing groups to visit, care for this building, maintenance, simply maintenance, as well as preparatory work, scientific work on future exhibitions, the Museum of Cursed Soldiers has been financed from the state budget since 2020. Also next year, this funding, such a basic, very narrow amount, is provided for in the Budget Act and, on the other hand, we also have investment issues here, and this law does indeed also prejudice the obligation to finance investments. [[Do I understand correctly that this museum's statutory activities will finance the state budget?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u59	Allow me, Minister, to point out the absurdities contained in the bill. It is said that the organizer of the museum is the president of the IPN. It is the President of the IPN who gives the statutes, that the President of the IPN determines the source of funding in this Statute. So the president of the IPN will determine that it is the minister or other government sources who are to finance the statutory activities of this museum. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Sebastian Kalet: May I?]] This hasn't happened yet. So far, according to the Act on Organizing and Conducting Cultural Activity, it was the organizer, which is most often the city council, who gave the statute. The City Council obliged the Director to establish the contents of the Statutes, which set out the sources of funding. The source of funding is the city's budget and other resources available. Here, there is a complete transformation of certain system subordinates.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u60	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u61	Mrs. Senator, first of all, the law determines that the Council of Ministers must allocate funds for the investment. And that recipe you gave, the recipe for... [[But I'm talking about business...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, let the Minister finish. You'll have to ask me later. There you go.]] Senator, the statute of every institution provides for the sources of funding. This applies to every institution. After all, you yourself indicated that the city council's resolution indicates the sources of funding, must indicate the sources of funding. The sources of funding in the statutes act shall indicate who is entitled to grant this act. Of course, the body which makes the act or its adoption shall act on the basis of regulations which indicate what the activity may be financed from. In short, the President of the IPN as an organ... this also applies to the Minister of Justice. Maybe I can explain this on an example of the legislation currently in force. The organizer of the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic is currently Minister of Justice The Minister as an organ, because the Ministry is an office serving the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice in the Statute has identified sources of funding. The President of the IPN will do the same as the Minister of Justice did, because each organiser must identify the institution he supervises, how it is to function. For example, the president of the IPN can indicate whether the museum will be able to apply for grants or whether it will not be able to apply for grants. It's very simple, for me, this issue is very simple. I kind of don't understand why a case so simple is raised. Well, of course I understand the concern, so I'm gonna straighten it out as much as I can.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u62	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u63	Yes, in the light of the existing law, the law on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities, it is simple and understandable. It's working well, but the change that... [[Secretary of State at Sebastian Kalet's Ministry of Justice: But the senator will admit that the lead authority indicates the sources of funding.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: But I ask that the Minister now give the opportunity to ask you a question so that you do not...]] [[Secretary of State at Sebastian Kalet's Ministry of Justice: But I just want to...]] Indeed, according to the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities, the governing body assigns the statutes. The governing body shall be a higher authority than the director to whom it is appointed. In this law, you are proposing a complete upset of this subordinate. Well, I'm sorry, but unfortunately, the Minister didn't get my attention at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u64	No, Senator. As for the first part about system differences, I said in my statement that this provision is a special design. I agree with that, but that's why... Just as well, Senator, we could adopt a different construction and add the IPN to the act on cultural activity. Then the senator would say that the IPN will be able to create dozens of museums. Here we propose that this particular museum should simply be the responsibility of the President of the IPN. Well, then you wouldn't be able to make a plea against a violation of the general rules. If we put the President of the IPN in the act on cultural activity and maintained other solutions, the President of the IPN could appoint several further museums. So our purpose is, you can say, more thoughtful and precise. But I think we understand in such a way that the arrangements for the organisation of the museum's activities... that also in the light of general regulations, the managing authority indicates the source of funding in the statutes to the authorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u65	Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Sebastian Kalet: After all, each institution must have its own budget. Yes?]] Senator Joanna Sekuła. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u66	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You are in the group of Members of the applicants. Please tell me: did you have any intention of changing the authority of the museum, choosing the Ministry of Culture? And if not, why not?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u67	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u68	I think I answered that question in my speech. Due to the involvement of the Institute of National Remembrance, its current statutory objectives as well as its actual commitment, it was a smooth struggle in recent years of the museum's activities with the activities of the National Remembrance Institute that made such a decision. It is also a political decision, let us not hide it. Members of various groups within the United Rights supported this law, including Minister of Culture, Prime Minister Gliński, and Deputy Minister, Minister Sellin. This solution, due to its functionality, has been accepted as a legitimate solution, but precisely with the condition that this specific facility, of such a nature, will operate within the institute. This is a purpose that kind of falls under the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u69	Thank you. No further questions. You're still Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What will happen if, God forbid, the Senate decides to reject this law and the Sejm does not reject this rejection, or will there be no law? How can this result in the operation of the museum?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u71	Thank you, Senator, for that question. The consequences are obvious. Construction permits will expire. All the long-term efforts, efforts towards this investment, will simply be lost. Alternatively, if there was the will to continue this project, to continue it, it would be necessary to ask again for permission to build the capital city of Warsaw. Then the officials would have taken a position on whether such a construction permit should have been granted to such an undertaking. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Minister...]] So, in short, there wouldn't be an investment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u72	Minister, I have a question. But it would only be if the Sejm hadn't rejected the Senate, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u73	If the Sejm had not rejected the rejection of the Senate, the bill would not have entered into force. She wouldn't have gone to the President then, and the President couldn't have said anything about her, so she wouldn't have come into force.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u74	With this condition. Okay, I get it. Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Gogacz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u75	Minister, I would like to ask you something because, according to my opinion, the work of the museum is part of the performance of the statutory tasks of the Institute of National Remembrance, especially as regards Chapter 6b. So I have a question for you. Is there a need for a change in Article? 24, where is the current record that the President of the IPN reports on the year-round activity, included the "Museum of Soldiers of the Cursed"? Doesn't it seem that the activities of this museum are, as I said at the beginning, the activities of the IPN?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u76	Mr. Senator, thank you for that question. We were actually discussing whether or not it was superfluum. We have finally come to the conclusion, also in connection with the allegations made in the Seym by the politicians of the Civic Platform, that there will be no supervision of the Minister of Culture... There was a charge that it would not be in the supervision of the Minister of Culture. We replied that the Minister of Culture could not oversee the President of the IPN. There's a cross between the powers we wanted to avoid in this bill. And you touched the point here. There were allegations that the president of the IPN would not be controlled by anyone. Some forget that the President of the IPN is controlled by the Sejm. It should not be controlled by the Minister of Culture because under the IPN Act it is controlled by the Sejm. And this provision aims to strengthen, you can say, this direction of supervision. This is also an element from which the President of the IPN will report to the Sejm as an equivalent activity of the Institute. Of course, it can be argued whether, for legislative reasons, the solution we have chosen is right, and the senator pointed out that it could be debatable. However, there are also some legal references and precise wordings, despite the possibility of reference or interpretation... Such treatments are also used to strengthen the records and possibly avoid another interpretation in the future. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska's question, please. [[I'm quitting.]] Thank you. Well, in that case, it's very... Is there anyone else who would like to ask a question? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Thank you very much, Minister. There are no more senators who want to ask questions. [[Voice from the room: Chairman of the IPN, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, where's that in the script? [[Voice from the room: There isn't. But they can invite guests, also invited by the marshal maybe...]] Oh, I see. Since the President of the Institute of National Remembrance is invited to the Senate meeting, I ask if the President would like to take the floor on this bill. [[President of the National Remembrance Institute of the Criminal Crimes Commission against the Polish Nationals Karol Nawrocki: With pleasure.]] You're welcome, Mr. President. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u78	Dear Marshal, Dear Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The place on Rakowiecka Street, a museum on Rakowiecka Street, as it has already rained many times during this meeting, is a unique and special place. It is still a bleeding wound on the Polish body and a special place in the Polish historical consciousness, dripping with blood victims of German Nazism and Soviet communism. It is actually a central place for the story of the Polish nation, who fought for freedom in the collision with German Nazism and Soviet communism. It's a special place. Therefore, I would ask you to exempt me from the question whether thirty years after the fall of the communist system 300, 500, 700 million Polish zlotys is a lot or not enough to finally create a museum, museum, experienced institution, which will sustain this knowledge in subsequent generations and will talk about the Polish history of the 20th century in a national and international context. I will not address these questions of yours, and I will leave it to your conscience. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the initiators of this solution, because it is over-ministerial. It says that today Polish political elites do not wonder whether it is the Ministry of Justice, whether it is the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, whether it is the law firm of the Prime Minister or local governments, because local governments also have the opportunity to build museums, to deal with this history. It is a super-ministerial gesture and an attempt to give a special place in the Polish history of an independent state institution, which is the Institute of National Remembrance. It is an expression of a transpolitical solution and a desire to give this investment to a man who answers only to the Polish Sejm and only to the Polish Senate. It's making history and history. above the primacy of ministerial discussions, and I also hope that above the primacy of political discussions. That is why I am asking all of you to support this bill. I would like to assure you from this place, and on this declaration I will end, because many words have already come out that the Institute of National Remembrance has today infrastructure, buildings, archives, several dozen such buildings throughout Poland, in all 11 branches, in all delegations of the Institute of National Remembrance. We invest in Cracow, we invest in Olsztyn. We are ready to build a museum on Rakowiecka Street in terms of human resources capable of making investments. In terms of content for this museum, i.e. professionals, specialists dealing with the history of Poland of the 20th century, we are the most prepared institution to undertake this investment. I would like to remind you that it is nearly 200 scientists throughout Poland dealing with exactly this period, which concerns the Museum of Cursed Soldiers and Political Prisoners at ul. It's a cancer movie. You stand today, my dear, before a real chance to decide whether in the next 2 or 3 years in your main body of the museum at ul. The Racovian Uprising or not. If you decide to take care of the Institute of National Remembrance, I make you a solemn declaration that the Institute of National Remembrance will build such a museum. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. I understand, Mr President, that on an analogy to the situation of the members of the government, the President will be gracious to answer the senators' questions... [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish Nationals Karol Nawrocki: Yes, I'm sorry, yes, of course.]] ...if the senators want to ask such questions. I therefore ask whether the senators would like to address questions to the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, which we will assume in the same rigour of one minute as we apply in the case of questions to members of the government. I see Senator Spider reporting. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask the President only how many Poles, the Treasury cost the construction of the Polin Museum, the Museum of the History of Polish Jews, and in what amount every year the State finances the activities of this museum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u81	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u82	I, Senator, of course, am not the director of the Polin Museum and did not participate in this investment, but I know the scale of museum investments in Poland. So far in Poland's history, the largest museum investment was the construction of the Museum of World War II in Gdańsk, which was 0.5 billion Polish zlotys. This scale has the opportunity to pierce the Museum of History of Poland, which is more expensive. So I would assume, but I can only estimate that it was several hundred million Polish zlotys, but in detail I am not able to answer you. These are always hundreds of millions of Polish zlotys. And I will point out that this planned investment in... not always, with larger solutions, with these biggest Polish museums, not at memorial chambers... In any case, in the case of the museum we are talking about, of course its budgeting is spread over the following years, so it does not refer to the scale of the Polish state's budget within one year, this should also be added.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Are there any other questions? If you have no other questions, thank you very much, Mr President. [[President of the National Remembrance Institute of the Criminal Crimes Commission against the Polish Nationals Karol Nawrocki: Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u84	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! At first, I would like to reassure the President of the IPN, Dr. Nawrocki. Well, we have a chance to speak in this important debate, we have not only an opportunity, but we have the right and the duty to speak in matters that concern the functioning of the institutions of the state, it is simply our duty whenever we have doubts, and we have doubts and of course we express these doubts. If these doubts end with the rejection of the bill, it is not because we are all opposed to the functioning of the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic. I'm one of those people who thinks this museum should work. My political sensitivity, the formation of my sensitivity and political and historical is largely based on the history of young people, Warsaw insurgents, soldiers of the Home Army, also Soldiers of the Cursed, although perhaps more from this poak revolution, and not from the National Armed Forces and the Świętokrzyski Brigade, more the history of Zygmunt Szendzielarz I'm one of those people who thinks this museum should be built. In 2014, then President Bronisław Komorowski, with the then Minister of Justice, Marek Biernacki, expressed the intention that the Mokotowski prison, so important for our history and identity, would become a place of execution and oppression in the Stalinist times and later, a museum in the future. Therefore, on the suggestion of Minister Kaleta that the senators visit the museum... I think that's a good idea. I also think that a better guide would be sitting in this room of Bogdan Borusewicz, the person who was sitting in this prison on Rakowiecka. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015, during the presidential and parliamentary elections, Law and Justice accused the Government of the Platform that a year had passed, and so little happened in terms of the announced construction or organization in the Mokotow museum prison. It's been over six years since Law and Justice so zealously criticized the alleged tardiness of the Platform government. And after six years, we stand in this House, and earlier in the Seym, for a debate on this matter. How little has happened in six years. Well, you could build big institutions for six years, but it didn't work, despite the general acceptance of the idea, this museum was fully operational. So we are now asking for the legitimacy of the funds allocated to the government budget for this institution. We ask why this is a parliamentary project, not a government project, when it is essentially about the system and organisation of an institution financed by the state budget. The bill we're discussing today... There is a provision here that says that the Council of Ministers will provide and guarantee funding from the state budget for the financing of a multi-annual museum project. Well, it's legal, because we know that a good project should take into account the financial implications of the state budget. So that the bill should contain such financial forecasts and not contain them. We know from another point of view of the debate in the Sejm that this investment, as your rapporteur, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, has already mentioned, is the amount in the state budget of PLN 700 million. It can be said that, with such inflation and price increases, this will be a much higher amount. Not that I'm criticizing that this amount is in the budget because I think the museum should be built... Although I'm not sure that wasted time isn't bouncing right now, colloquially speaking, with hiccups. I don't know if for that kind of money... How you will manage the functioning of 2 separate institutions, i.e. Museum of Cursed Soldiers, financial culture institutions from the state budget in Ostrołęka... How does this apply to the Mokok museum? There is no good answer to this question, and it seems that she was not at the committee meeting, as the senator said. 700 million PLN per important institution... But in this state budget, the Minister of Culture's budget lacks funds, small funds, to finance an institution that has been operating for many years, namely the European Solidarity Centre. Let me remind you that the Ministry financed ECS activities of 7 million. It's been a few years. This amount amounts to PLN 4 million, to a functioning institution which perfectly implements the Polish state's right, reminds Europe and the world that it was on the Coast that the process of erosion of the communist system began in Poland. This is priceless diplomacy. No other museum and institution in Poland, headed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, currently functioning, has implemented the Polish state's right as far as historical policy is concerned. There is no money, there is no $3 million to contribute to ECS activities, and it is so freely planned to spend hundreds of millions of zlotys. And the key thing, I think, in all these considerations. Although we do not question the idea of building this museum or expanding it, improving it, investing it, we question the idea which is disrupting a certain institutional order in Poland. It removes the museum, which is a cultural institution, from jurisdiction, from care, from the supervision of the Minister of Culture, and transfers it to the IPN. I will avoid personal comments about the President's ability to manage investments, because we have already had a debate in this room about the investment you started in building the World War II Museum. Well, we know that there were some reservations of the Minister of Culture and that tenders for the construction of apartments or apartments in the museum caused controversy. I don't want to go back to that. But I believe that the IPN should not be a supervisory authority for reasons that have appeared here somewhere in Minister Kaleta's statement that the IPN is changing and will have a different role. It's a political decision. That's how I understand her. I believe that the IPN is becoming an institution which aims to shape the historical and political sensitivity of young Poles based on new patterns and ideals, and historical, in a new way, with such, I would say, politically inspired moral and ideological backbone, and based, among others. of the crooked, in my opinion, proportions of the memory of the Soldiers Cursed at the expense It is undoubtedly the memory of soldiers and achievements of the National Army, the largest underground formation in occupied Europe. In this situation it is necessary to thank the local government of Kraków and Małopolska for running the Museum of the National Army. I would like Poland to see that the National Army will be honoured in a similar way, through some great exhibition, whether in the Museum of History of Poland or in a separate museum. I don't think it's a coincidence that the cult of Soldiers Cursed by the current crew and by the IPN so much exploited, to a large extent at the expense of the Home Army. I don't think it's a coincidence. That's the idea. And that's why the IPN appears here, not the Minister of Culture. Because IPN has been shaped for some time as a tool of influence, shaping, raising young Poles based on new ideal patterns, yes, not otherwise understood, understood... [[Timer signal]] ...and an educated history of contemporary Poland. Therefore, as a supporter of commemorating the Soldiers of the Cursed and paying tribute to political prisoners, I believe that this law must be rejected and perhaps immediately proceed to the proceeding of the Government Act, which will take these matters into account in a systematic, orderly manner, in accordance with the principle adopted in the Polish State for several terms that cultural institutions are subject to the Minister of Culture. [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] Yes, sir. Thank you very much. By rejecting this bill in the Senate, we expect a new project, which will simply be a project better prepared, not by a group of Members, not by a faction in the concentration of power, but by the government of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u85	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u86	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! In fact, it happened that I was the only one, apparently, of this group present in the Senate sitting in Mokotów; of course I was not a Cursed Soldier. But after what I'm about to say, I'm probably going to be cursed by some extreme PiS. I've been observing the ideology of the PiS for a long time. By part of the piss, I'd like to say. An ideology to become a state ideology. The IPN is very active in this. The IPN was called to secure archives, conduct research, publish, pursue. I was involved in the creation of the IPN Act. At the time, none of us thought that the IPN would also manage museums and build them. The situation had been clear for some time: the museums were subject to the Minister of Culture. I understand that the matter of the prison and what to do with this prison in Mokotów was specific, but this museum should have long since been transferred under the authority of the Ministry of Culture, which has the appropriate services, has the appropriate structures, departments, specialists, including history and museums, and above all, has services that deal with and deal with investments, huge investments. And this is a proposal for a huge investment, because it is about 700 million PLN. A huge investment. I wasn't looking at what she was supposed to look like. I think the most important thing in this prison in Mokotów is the behaviour of the substance. Improvements, renovations Of course, but interference with this substance should be as small as possible, because this substance is a value. I do not agree with building such ideology that the most important are those who fought after the war. Those people who stayed in guerrilla troops were people who had fought before during World War II. As we look at their resumes, we will see that all or most of the forest troops were left in these forests after 1945. Separation of these two spheres, the fight against the invaders during World War II and the later struggle for independence... Defending a democratic system was the continuation of that fight. For those people who stayed in the woods, it was clear, for historians who looked at their previous fates, it is also clear. Why is there no National Army museum in this regard? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] In Krakow, local government. Yeah, local government, not what you're going to build. This is not without reason, because the struggle of the Home Army, which was, however, mostly composed of people with democratic views, organisationally connected, also personally, with soccer players... That's not the direction. Yes? For a long time you have been referring to extreme ideology, NSZ, the Holy Cross Brigade. After all, they were extreme troops, they were party militias, which in part entered the Home Army, and then came out of it. In part, they didn't get into it for political reasons either. I object to that. The Polish state should not be based on such ideology. The period of post-war combat should be organically connected with the period of war and with the National Army, because the largest post-war organization was WiN, and WiN directly, personally and ideologically, came from the National Army. The discussion about whether or not it was necessary to stay in the forest and fight, whether to come back, build and study, is still ongoing today. The same as the discussion about the meaning of the Warsaw Uprising or the Warsaw Uprising, because that is what it should be called. You have decided to judge this for political reasons, not because of historical teachings and what we know about this period. I repeat: the construction of this type of ideology, which is to be the ideology of the present Polish state, raises opposition in me. I've been watching this for a long time. Prominent former senator, senator of the previous term, one of the builders of this ideology thought that it was necessary... that those who remained in the forest, this is the best part of the Polish nation. His father didn't go into the woods, he was working at the Capital Reconstruction Office with Professor Zachwatowicz. Professor Gieysztor and a whole group of historians undoubtedly deserved in the fight against the occupier or the occupiers, especially the German occupier... They were then luminaries of Polish science. And the question is, should we remember them in this regard? Formal matters are important, but not the most important to me. I looked at the bill. It should be down to two paragraphs. First, the IPN of the museum is transferred to run, and second, the president of the IPN can do anything. [[Timer signal]] Because he can do anything under this bill. On the formal side, it's a terrible bill. I repeat, fatal. And this 700 million zloty is only in justification. Nowhere in this law is it said that this museum will cost so much and only that in a given period we will spend so much and so much money. Well, I heard it was gonna be 80 million zlotys in the first year, but that's all I heard. So it's full freedom, full ambiguity and full ideology of our history for the past few decades. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u87	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The number of questions and, in particular, the various suggestions made in the discussion, especially at the stage of asking questions, was so huge, and the inaccuracies so extensive that I would have to use huge shortcuts to answer some of them, and especially those doubts that are crucial from the point of view of this initiative. I will start by saying that what can be said positive about the whole project is that the initiative itself is positive, the initiative, in short, the transformation of the prison into a museum institution. But I'm gonna make sure there's no doubt that I was hoping you could tell Senator Sławomir Rybicki. That this initiative to make this place a museum institution dedicated to the Cursed Soldiers, i.e. not only to the Cursed Soldiers, but above all to them, it was the initiative of President Bronisław Komorowski of 2014, announced on 19 January 2014. At that time, we very quickly discussed how this project should be implemented so that it could actually be implemented. He was supported by the then Home Minister Marek Biernacki, so in general, it could be said that the initiative took shape in terms of the idea itself. I would like to add immediately that a few months later I was already in the European Parliament, which is why I was unable to continue this project, but because I have carried out other museum projects, such as the said Polin Museum, such as the mentioned World War II Museum, the Palace under the Plate, Arkady Kubicki, numerous renovation works on Wawel or in Wilanów etc., etc., I have some idea of how a well prepared project should look like, about which the Senate should debate. Well, first of all, it should be a very precise exhibition area, intended for both permanent exhibitions and variable exhibitions. Secondly, it should also be planned for all the elements consisting of the basics: the basic cost of maintaining a given museum, so that we know how much it will cost after construction and who will be responsible for it. Here's another thing. The number of visitors is planned, even by those who are Poles, or their own society, as well as those who are foreign guests, because this museum should be defined in terms of objectives and implementation of certain projects. We We don't have it all. We know notabene that the museum, generally speaking, has an area of about 32 thousand m2, so at least it is written in one of the portals. 32,000 m2 is, of course, a giant surface. Well, I'll say that Polin, which has been mentioned several times, has 12 thousand m2, Wawel's exhibition area is 7 thousand m2, the Royal Castle in Warsaw, about 7.5 thousand m2, Wilanowa 4 thousand m2. There's 32,000 m2 at your disposal. There are 11 objects, including 4 to be demolished, and the cost of implementing this entire project is 700 million PLN. Well, I'll say I know the prices of demolitions and how I look at these four objects designed to be demolished one at a time... Well, these are prices of PLN 150.400 for 1 m2. I've calculated all this quickly and I don't find any justification for this newly created object, not entirely, because it's designed to build only parts, cost over 25 thousand PLN for 1 m2. I mean, this is crazy. But I'm gonna move on to a lot of more important things, things that are important from my point of view. Because you have to remember and it was said that the Polish state, the government already has one museum. The Museum of Soldiers Cursed in Ostrołęka is, I will remind you, a state museum. This initiative was launched in 2013, but, contrary to what one of the senators said, the museum is still not open. You can check on the website. There is information to the management of this museum that the Museum of Soldiers Cursed in Ostrołęka is not yet open to visitors, and the opening date will be announced online. This is an official statement. I would like to add immediately that it is also very interesting to announce, which is on the website of this museum: we are looking for museum guides. It is not so easy to build a museum for 700 million PLN and gain staff, employees who will have the powers of curators, curators' competences, competences of those who are responsible for storing specific collections or popularization of history. This is a great and very difficult undertaking. Let me remind you that the Museum of Cursed Soldiers, which I mentioned, was founded in 2013. It's 2022, and it's not open. Another thing, very important to me, is what this government has done so far. Well, the Museum of Polish History was supposed to cost about 300 million, before 270 million. A multi-annual plan was created, which changed Prime Minister Szydło, and changed Mateusz Morawiecki. It's gonna cost 1 billion. I'm looking at the 700 million, and I know, knowing the government's actions, it's going to cost three times more, which is two billion. I also look at the Museum of Józef Piłsudski, which was closed immediately after the opening. It was supposed to cost $90 million, then $120 million, and now they're talking about $250 million. As I said, it was closed after opening. Well, I have to say, if it's so unprepared, it's just written on paper. I don't know what quality... I'm actually nervous because I know what state the entire cultural area is in right now, how underinvested it is in many, many areas, despite the enormous financial resources available to the Minister. Unfortunately, they do not go to the culture that is developing, but to the culture that is behind us. If we do not get the right ratio between investing in the future and creativity and investing in the past I'm notabene, but that's what you have to do in the right proportions. We're gonna start, in short, rolling. And a few very important comments. This is the second state institution dedicated, as I said, to the Encursed Soldiers. You'd have to think about how these two museums would work. The Museum of AK soldiers, a self-government museum run by the city of Kraków, run by the local government, was mentioned here. This is a museum where the initiative belonged to war veterans themselves. We're talking 1989, 1990. Initially, this institution It was a paradox. It was located in the old Lenin Museum. It is an institution that has been preparing for the inauguration for 10 years and for the completion of its tasks for the next 8 years. This is a really serious challenge. And what's the project? This is a government project? No, it's a parliamentary project. The government is trying to bring about the transfer of certain competences and make the head of IPN an heir to the project, as I mentioned, Bronisław Komorowski. This is to be implemented without any initial, real, professional museum plan. It's not the right way, it's not the right way. I will say this again so that there is no doubt: I am in favour of commemorating the Soldiers of the Cursed. My uncle was a Cursed Soldier, spent more than 10 years in communist prisons, and under catastrophic conditions, the worst, so to speak. But I know him. If he'd heard about the 700 million, he'd be willing to use that money for something else. Some could be used, for example. for our Afghan veterans, from Iraq, who are in poverty. They have paid a gigantic price for military service, and in present conditions, in present times, they cannot even meet with the Minister of National Defence, they cannot express their various pains. I also know that it is worth strengthening the existing museums, which are very often poor. Under current conditions, with current inflation, I would already be worried about what the real cost of these museums will be at the end of the year. Just a few more things. I can see I'm running out of time, so I'm gonna do another five minutes later, and now I'm gonna do two more things that are very important from my point of view. We're actually in a very difficult time. inflation, expensive, poorly calculated costs for the functioning of cultural institutions, with various problems concerning curators, curators, etc., etc. I am very concerned about their fate in 2022. I think it is necessary to do everything in this budget to make adjustments very quickly, so that our culture, these institutions run by the most outstanding professionals under the supervision of the Ministry of Culture, because this is the most appropriate place... [[Timer signal]] ...the most appropriate address to help these museums... The point is to help them this year, because it's gonna be really hard for them... [[Time.]] It must be remembered that shaping the proper competence of museums is not a year or two, it is most often a dozen years. And that's what we need to think about right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u89	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. President of the Institute of National Remembrance! Ladies and gentlemen! It seems that the echo of this discussion, which is now taking place in the Senate, is the applause of these disputes about the latest history of Poland, which concern events from the period of World War II and immediately after World War II, but also in a sense the aftermath of historical, political and ideological disputes around what happened. After 1989, August evaluation, evaluation of the various events and transformation model that took place in Poland. We have so much problem that we have not adopted, unlike other countries of the former block of states of folk democracy, some single law, as Hungary did, Czechoslovakia of its time or other countries, which would clearly separate the political, moral, legal period of the light past of socialist times from the regaining democratic rights of societies and independent states which, after 1989, began to arise in Central and Central Eastern Europe. Thus the echo of this discussion on the various aspects of our dramatic history during World War II and immediately after World War II continues until today and takes the form of a certain political dispute that is taking place. It may be worth recalling that the National Day of Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers began to be discussed seriously in the public debate in 2001, even during the time of the Solidarity Election Action, when a special resolution was taken. Later, in 2009, the veterans' environment, the patriotic environments asked President Lech Kaczyński to establish this day. With such an initiative, as we know, there has been a sleep. Professor Lech Kaczyński to the Sejm at the time when Donald Tusk, historian and Marshal of the Sejm was Bronisław Komorowski, also historian. After the tragic death of President Lech Kaczynski, this initiative was supported by Bronisław Komorowski, who was a A supporter of the establishment of this day of memory. And since then, and so since the formal establishment, various kinds of social, museum, event initiatives have started to emerge, connected precisely with this national day of memory, which, as we know, is celebrated on 1 March. I think that in the districts of all countries this national day is somehow, more or less shown, celebrated. And from this point of view, those shortages that were in the historical narrative... This is also the aftermath of this Marxist, progressive historiography, however we define it from the period of the Polish People's Republic, which basically represented the very one-sided dramatic fate of those patriots who could not accept that in Poland power is installed with the help of Soviet bayonets who rebelled against it with guns at their feet. No matter how we feel, what were the chances of effective resistance in this situation, against this propaganda machine, but above all against the apparatus of security repression... Well, the manifestations of this were, among others. False elections and referendums in 1946 and 1947 This is a dispute between historians. I think that politicians should be free of such assessments, we should leave it to professional historians. Nevertheless, it is important that the Polish state raises awareness of the public, citizens, how complex the history of Poland was and how many dilemmas were then faced by Poles, our grandparents, our fathers, our great-grandfathers. This youngest generation is also involved. I think that the Polish state should conduct a multi-nurtive policy. I understand that policy is being pursued. Marshal Borusewicz mentioned that there is no National Army museum. Yeah, it is. It exists under the supervision of the Cracow government, but runs a very beautiful activity. On February 14th, next month, we will celebrate the round 80th anniversary of the National Army. It is known that the order of 14 February 1942 from various organizations of independence, freedom, military was created a uniform structure of the National Army. This anniversary, according to the announcements I know, will result in more than 150 events and events. Well, it'll be honored. While there are times of pandemics, inflation, Polish Governance, various discussions, other issues are now giving to the public debate After all, various important events take place, including ceremonial celebrations, which will take place in connection with the National Army. I believe that this dispute that is taking place in this Chamber on the occasion of this bill is a substitute dispute. I perfectly understand the dramas of these Poles, who e.g. they could not leave the Soviet Union with the Anders Army due to age or organizational reasons. Well, the only chance for them was to participate in the so-called. The People's Army of the Polish Army - Sielce nad Oka, 1 Division, etc. And that just has to be taken into account. The drama of those events should be leaned down with calmness, despite, of course, the role of those who used these Poles for their political purposes or later organized a apparatus of repression and totalitarian state around them. I'm talking about a country in the Stalinist period. Of course, all this drama must be kept in mind. And that's why I think that the initiative to give this museum, which was originally appointed by the Minister of Justice, and praise him for it, is sanctioned by some co-ordination or co-operation with the Institute of National Remembrance... This institute is a professional institution, which also arouses political emotions, there were also ideas to eliminate the IPN, there were probably dozens of amendments to the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, there were disputes about the election of the president of the Institute, about the profile of activities, the involvement of the Institute of National Remembrance over the last 20 years. But I write it down on the merits that I had the honour of being a Member of the Polish Parliament at the time of the Election Action of Solidarity, to take part in the work on the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, and I think that if we remove these political, ideological and other disputes .. or historical even.. The institution played a very positive role in shaping the awareness of Polish citizens, not only in commemorating or reminding about important events of our dramatic history, but also in the research aspect. How many jobs have been created? How many publications? This is perhaps less visible to the public, more interested in some specialists, historians, sociologists, readers who are interested in history, but this work is very significant. Of course, this work is also subject to evaluation and discussion on this subject is ongoing, but there has been... [[Timer signal]] ...a mile ahead. That's why I think this bill is needed. Probably the script will be I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. The fact that it will pass the motion to reject this law, as requested by the Committee on Culture and Media, while in the Sejm it is likely that this proposal will be rejected. That's what I'm going to say, the script for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u91	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Gentlemen of Ministers! There is a proverb: among the dear friends the hare wolves ate. [[Voice from the room: Dogs.]] Dogs. Fine. It applies, unfortunately, to some of the speeches we have heard here. I do not wish to judge your motives, but as I hear it, the bill must be rejected because it was prepared by Members, not by the government... But the text of the bill comes out as a uniform text and it doesn't say whose project it was. It's just the law. What does it matter here? The law must be rejected because we have seen tardiness in previous renovations, organizational works at the museum. I understand. Let's not do anything, because it's been slow to do so far. It doesn't have much to do with logic. Other doubts Okay, okay, okay, in the text. We reject the whole text because there are errors in the text. Okay, but what if we turn that down? From this speaker it was clearly stated: it will simply delay the organizational process and the creation of this museum in a full picture, unless it makes it impossible at all. Why? Well, for example. all decisions about building permits or demolition will expire. Is that what this is about? Well, a new project is expected. But I didn't see this new alternative project here. They say, "Let's throw this old guy away, and then it's gonna be okay." In fact, if there is a motion at this point to reject the bill, then there can be only one effect: stopping the organisation, stopping the investment process and, as a result, slow atrophy and disappearing this museum. What does that mean? Well, that means we're not gonna take this seriously. I mean, there's gonna be research, there's gonna be an IPN, I'm sure, but it's not gonna be presented anywhere. in a way that now reaches the young generation, i.e. the image. And another note. As a question related to the text of the Act, it was indicated that it mixes with each other, I would call it, organisational issues, subordinates, supervision, etc. But you have clearly said here that this is a special provision in relation to the General Act on Cultural Institutions. It's a special recipe. And the question is: why is the IPN and why does this special provision have to be? Well, because the other museums that the Ministry handles are kind of finished. There's no major research... Well, I don't know, maybe there are, of course, causes, but... [[Voice from the room: All of them...]] Okay, so let's say they are, but they don't arouse so much emotion in this room. And this particular subject is alive and burning. Well, then, as if the supervisory authority should be those who directly research it historically. Because I understand it in such a way that this organization of the museum, its appearance, its exhibitions, they will be created on an ongoing basis, also as part of historical research. It's a little different than that. In understanding the whole distinctness, e.g. Museum in Auschwitz, Museum of World War II etc. There, these historical controversys are much smaller. There's research, there's some causal issues, but certainly not so much that I'm going to say passion. Perhaps these passions are at stake. After all, this is the case in the history of Poland I am speaking now of course about this story of the newest, free, after 1989, well, it is not known whether free, so à about the fact that certain topics were taboo topics. In communist times it was Katyn. I remember that Katyn was in the underground press before 1989. Then the subject of the taboo was the soldiers cursed. The subject of taboos, regardless of how we look at it, were also reparations, i.e. standing in the truth of Poland against factors and external countries. The taboo was also a part of the Holocaust, because only one of its pages was presented. Fortunately, these taboo topics are slowly removed from Polish history, from Polish historical research. It's going very hard. The closer the event is to history on the timeline, the more resistant it is. Why? Well, because there are still those people who took part in the events, their family members, direct witnesses. Therefore, this museum should be built as soon as possible. And here, I understand, is the commitment of the President, not only to us, but also to the public. I understand that in two years this museum will eventually work. Well, maybe three years. Let's give it a little more time. Because it's also an obligation, Mr. President. Like I said, taboo topics should be removed from Polish history. Incidentally, we have nothing to be ashamed of when it comes to the whole nation. Any, I would call it, social connotations, even the family nature should not be taken into account in any way. The historical truth will defend itself. And this historical truth should begin as soon as possible. present that the next generation of young people will not grow, who will only know it, say, from online entries, so to speak, with all the benefits of this presentation. First, the scientist should investigate the truth, and even check these objects on Rakowiecka, because I suspect they are not fully tested yet. And to present it in an explanatory and accessible way, and at the end it should reach the consciousness of our young people, our nation, as I said, without taboo topics, without these passions. When I hear of such pretexts that are supposed to heal the situation, and in fact stop the development of this institution, this museum, I say clearly that we are still, unfortunately, at the stage of the puberty of our nation. Well, maybe not the nation, because young people do things a little differently, after all the Soldiers Cursed... It was mostly young people who contributed to the fact that we could talk about them, which was mainly the attitude of young people. But it is certainly the case that elites, politicians should rise above personal, family, group interests and should, as a rule, equip Poland with its history, recreate this story. The Ministry of Culture does not create history, it deals with history already formulated. And to recreate it and present it in an appropriate way... It must be those who know about it, those who are simply professionals. I believe that the IPN will meet the task of observing its existing activities It will also deal with organisational issues, as I said just now. And one last thing. Perhaps no other building in Warsaw, in the centre, in the capital of the nation, in the capital of the state, is so much pretending to present this section of history. It's kind of continuity. It's not just World War II, but the effects of this World War II that depend... [[Timer signal]] ...directly from her, which we talked about differently, but we did not treat it as the second stage of occupation. I will only read you the title: from the Tsar's tiurma to the Peerel's cathedral. That's the essence. or the essence of what's in this museum. And that's how our history should be understood. They weren't separate sections, they were from each other. It's lucky we can get an objective examination now.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u93	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! To sum up a little bit of this discussion, which is already coming to an end, I would of course like to thank everyone for taking the floor. I would also like to address a few comments and share my reflection. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that Minister Kaleta, while performing, did not refer to what happened, that of 300 made 700. You haven't referred to it, Minister. It's amazing, because that means either you're early... or you're just miscalculated. This raises huge doubts. That's the one thing I wanted to say. Second thing. I'd like to... It's not what you think, it's not that we can afford anything at any time, that you can afford anything. Actually, I haven't heard any voices today that would question that this museum should be made available, that the memory of these people should continue, but saying that the state must stand... I'll remind you... And I encourage you to visit these institutions, which, I say, are digging up. I remind you that the history museum... it's been six years. You've been attacking so hard that it hasn't been completed before. It's been six years and it's still not ready. A huge, big, giant investment costing huge money. This is another case I wanted to remind you of. And if you'd like it any more... I'll remind you what we lived here not so long ago. We lived a century of regaining independence and on the wallpaper there was the Museum of the Battle of Warsaw. Why don't you go and see what's going on out there and what millions have already gone for it? Take a look at this as a follow-up. I would also like to tell you that there are experiences... I forgot to mention it, but I was... I think you and the director of I.P.N. and the director of the museum were there, too. There's a museum in Budapest... [[Voice from the room: Terror Museum.]] Yeah, the Terror Museum. It's worth a look in Budapest. This is the old prison building where the museum was organized, but not on such a huge scale. I would also like to point out that the Budapest Museum was financed by private funds. This is a museum funded by a private donor. Yeah, well, there are cases like that, too. And I wouldn't underestimate... Right now it's 700 million, right now, on paper. And how much this museum will really cost, you'll be convinced. I assure you, not so much. And I can assure you, it's gonna be a lot of money, a lot of money. I would like to point out that the cost of materials has increased by 30% and some, ladies and gentlemen, by 60%. So what are we talking about? You have to wonder if at this point we can afford such an expensive museum, crazy expensive, so to speak, crazy expensive. In this situation, all these arguments fall out because here we are talking about concrete. Speaking of... it's very good that Marshal Borusewicz mentioned ideological issues here. He's a historian. We've had a lot of polemics here. Nobody denies the authority of people working at the Institute of National Remembrance to take care of it. I refuse museum competence. That's what you really need to have. A great deal of knowledge. I'm talking about employees, about those people who... this huge museum, for that kind of money, can't be compared to any memory room. That's not an option at all. I'd like to say that as far as these ideological issues are concerned, for me... I can imagine what it's gonna look like and why it's a museum. We can guess that based on the fact that in the previous council In this one too, I'm guessing. The main person who runs the museum there, in the council of the museum, is Professor Żaryn. So I'm looking forward to what it's going to look like. I'm sure it's not gonna look like... this council also hosted Senator Jan Maria Jackowski from PiS. And, Mr. Senator, if you were sitting there, I would have some faith that there would be a lot of attention. But no, there's only one aspect. We know Mr. Jarin, ex-Senator, and we just know what direction it's going to be in. At least that's what I think. Once again, thanking you for this discussion, let me remind you that this amount is huge, huge. This investment, in my opinion, I'm saying this, since you asked me what I'd advise you to do, you'd have to reduce it to 1/3 to about 200 million. This should be painted, made available to the public and slowly develop its activities. Let's stop with investments that Poland can't afford, because we're going to have The other Lambs are so cultural. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u95	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Józef Zając.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When I attend the Senate meetings, I often feel like I'm in history lessons. With all my conviction, I am in favour of commemorating these heroic people, to whom my father's brother also belonged, but I would also like to live to see the moment when here, in the Senate, we will discuss the destiny of a similar sum which is mentioned here, for the construction of a factory which could later be called the Cursed Soldiers. [[Voice from the O.R. Or the hospital.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u97	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Now there's only two things to make sure there's no doubt. One. I am an orthodox, I stress: orthodox, a supporter of respect for public money, therefore I believe that every investment project should simply be well, in a responsible, professional way. This one's not. I don't share the philosophy of saying that there are flaws, many flaws, many dangers, but at least let's do it. This is not the way to success, this is the way to failure. Let me remind you that this institution is talking about a museum on Rakowiecka For 3 years she existed without legal personality and for 3 years with legal personality. So there were six years for this project to be well prepared to be consulted, to prepare certain competition projects to be defined assumptions and well-counted costs. That time was wasted. Whether we waste another six months or a year... Yes, we will if nothing professional is going to happen in this matter. In my view, the time after possible denial of this law can be used to ensure that this investment is better prepared, better calculated, and therefore the investment process is better managed, so that there are better guarantees of spending certain financial resources, the preparation of permanent and temporary exhibitions, and of course to calculate the costs that are necessary for the calculation, i.e. how much it will cost to open such an institution, in short. So here's the first thing: this time, which may come after the denial of this law, needs to be used properly. This is one element. The second issue is ideological, but not political. I am convinced that the fewer countries in culture, the lighter the culture. Of course, there are institutions, especially museums, in which the State must participate, but all the more so must be responsible, exemplary for all those projects that appear in public space. Let me remind you once again that one museum dedicated to the Soldiers of the Cursed has already been nationalized. The second resort will run a similar project in terms of intentions, although in another object and with another program. But it is still one country with two institutions that decides to spend huge money to commemorate the Soldiers of the Cursed. And the last point I have to address. For me, the condition of culture, the condition of cultural workers, the condition of artists themselves is very important. I don't think we're spending money on living, creative, creative, those who will carry us for decades to come. Very often I talk to young artists, with those who make their debuts, who take off. They operate in extremely difficult conditions, in difficult times. Preparing projects that the little ministry... Because I will remind you that the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage is one of the smallest ministries. Preparing this ministry for proper and transparent grant policy, support, project preparation, supervision, and assistance to existing institutions... This is an extremely difficult task and extremely demanding. But today, if I had to bet on someone, I'd bet on them alive. I'd think of them in the first place. In particular, during the pandemic, especially when inflation is in place, especially in the context of such an increase in operating costs And with such projects, extremely risky and undoubtedly poorly prepared, I would just wait. I stress once again: I am not opposed to commemorating the fate of communist prisoners as well as the Cursed Soldiers, but I believe it is necessary to build a responsible hierarchy of the importance of goals, tasks and, above all, responsibility for the professional preparation of investment projects, so that it is not the same as those 2 towers in the Ostrołęka power plant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u99	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski for 5 minutes, because this is the second statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. President of the Institute of National Remembrance! I would like to refer to some of the speeches in this second part of the debate, after my speech, but I will start with some reflection. My father was a lieutenant of the Polish Army in the September campaign, a participant in the fight in Poland's defence in 2. The Heavy Artillery regiment. Later, during the occupation he lived in Lviv, he was a lieutenant of the Home Army. In August 1945, under dramatic circumstances, because his mother-in-law and father-in-law died with two young children. It was my two sisters that set out from there in a cattle carriage, because he was subject to the so-called. repatriating, which was a fraud in itself, because he was forced to leave Lviv. My parents made this dramatic decision, on the one hand, not wanting to part with their hometown, but on the other hand knowing that my father, as a lieutenant of the Home Army, who took part in the action of the storm, would sooner or later be repressed by Communists and Soviets who were in Lviv. He's got the so-called one. northern lands and recovered. And there in 1946 as a forester engineer, because he was a forester engineer by profession, an engineer by the Lviv University of Technology, he was beaten as someone who came from the East, knew Russian fluently because he was born in Kiev before the revolution, and as a Soviet citizen who was sent here to build a Polish state by such representatives... There's been so much drama. But I have no objection to it, although these were dramatic events, and my father barely came out of that beating that touched him in his own house with his wife in 1946. And those were the dramas of Polish history. I'm not making excuses, I'm not accusing anyone, but I want us to just remember these dramas. And then there's the second line. I am addressing the head of our committee here, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. Basiu, I studied with Bronk Komorowski, he was an older friend from college. Janek Żaryn, on the other hand, was my younger colleague in historical studies at the Institute of History at the University of Warsaw. And I wouldn't depreciate Professor Jan Żarin's scientific achievements here because he's huge. Moreover, he received the degree of professor of humanities in history from President Bronisław Komorowski in 2013. The fact that Professor Jan Żaryn also has his views on various contemporary events is the effect of the natural right of every citizen And not always everyone has to agree with these views. However, his scientific achievements in substance, his publicistic achievements, his involvement in social life, in my opinion, are simply worthy of respect. But that doesn't mean that everyone has to share everyone's views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, ad vocem...]] But it's in ad vocem mode. You're welcome. [[Yes, in ad vocem mode.]] Because you were named... [[Yes, mentioned by...]] ...you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u102	I'll be quick to say ad vocem mode. Dear fellow, Mr. Senator, I didn't question Professor Zarin's knowledge. We know exactly what she's like, and he's often impressed us with that knowledge. I just said that if there was a role-changer, then I would believe that there would be some pluralism here, some broader perspective, some consideration of options. That's all I'm saying. Professor Żaryn, with great knowledge, is a very politically determined person in one direction. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u103	Thank you very much. I will finish this debate between you. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u104	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'll start by congratulating Senator Jackowski because I've always been sure that Senator Żaryn is an older friend of the senator's, not a younger one. So congratulations... [[He's two months younger than me.]] Congratulations on your form, Senator. And that's the first thing. The second case, and the first one is totally serious. I would very much like to support the votes and Senator Zdrojewska and Senator Zając. I think it's been a while for everything. ♪ The time we live in right now ♪ I'm talking about our economic situation, about the pandemic, about all the troubles that are, objectively, This is not the time to spend such dramatic, monstrous money on even a very noble cultural purpose. That's one thing. Secondly, I have the impression that the Institute of National Remembrance, which was created under certain circumstances and for some purpose, has become such an institution... We are dealing in different countries with institutions that are lucky to find new tasks for themselves every now and then to increase their budget. It would seem that the IPN, which at some point was actually created for the purpose of vetting and prosecuting crimes against the Polish people... I've watched prosecutors employed in IPN for years... We were comparing the bedding of them and the other prosecutors, and it was outrageous. They had two, three cases a year, while a private prosecutor had those cases several dozen or more. I remember the failure of the IPN prosecutors who learned from the newspaper, and that foreign soldiers were still alive who were involved in the capture of the bodies from the Liberator wreckage where General Sikorski died. None of them, working for a lot of money, didn't get to it before, but they read it in the paper, probably in the British. I remember other I.P.N. ministers and bosses coming here for more money because you had to digitize, because you needed money for a new headquarters, while And here I'm referring to what Senator Hare was talking about. The budgets of institutions that deal with the living and which are important for the functioning of the State on a daily basis have been cut. And now this idea of placing the museum in the IPN I read as another attempt to magnify, by doughnuting, this institution, which by its definition should rather go down with its budget, because most of the tasks that were defined at the beginning have actually been done. But, of course, as a result of further novels and changes in the scope of the IPN's operation, it gets more, new business areas and more money. I also have the impression that for many people connected with a certain political option it is a sonecura. The money is paid for studies, which unfortunately only specialists and colleagues read. And I really don't see your efforts to make our history in our young society wider or deeper. I don't see it. And if you even watch jokes about Youtube asking young people about certain things, it turns out that there is a dramatic unawareness. And that's why I think another expansion... Because our statements are not against the museum. All these statements, showing different points of view, are against this being done now, in the form that this is happening, and that this is done by the IPN, while the normal path is completely different. And that's a pretty serious problem we're colliding with, but there's also And I'm going back to where I started. It's a problem of time. This is about the giant money that today should be spent on the Polish economy, on hospitals, on getting out of the crisis. You should have enough respect for the dramatic situation of society to say to yourselves: we are limiting ourselves, we will do it later or we will do it on a slightly smaller scale for the time being. Because it's not a good time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u105	Thank you, Senator. Who else? Ah! Mr. Marshal Kaminski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday we held a debate in our House about the state budget. Yesterday, during this debate, information came to us, which surprised the Minister of Finance present on it, because here is the Prime Minister who presented further proposals to combat inflation in Poland. I would like to point out this because it was indeed a curial situation: the minister responsible for the budget in the Senate Chamber found out that this is the prime minister who is changing the budget once again. Why am I talking about this? Because only yesterday we heard from this stand the Minister of Finance, who spoke about the difficult financial situation of the Republic of Poland. He talked about it and appealed to our responsibility. He said that today the various social groups, the various regions of Poland, must realise that due to the COVID, because of all the problems that have affected us, we have to bear certain expenses as a society. Moreover, also in this House, but not only in it, government representatives of many social groups in Poland, many professional groups in Poland say: "There is no money. There's no money. There's no money. There's only one situation when this power always finds money. This is when the president of public television or the father of the director of Torun asks for it. And then every amount is always there. Or if we make a patriotic ideology for the next money heist. At a meeting with the inhabitants of Baranów, frightened by what with their land, with the land of their fathers does the present power, planning his misplaced investment, Central Communication Port... I unwittingly quoted the Russian classic, not knowing that I was quoting it, and I told them this: when power speaks of God and homeland, hold your pockets. And today, ladies and gentlemen, the day after the Minister of Finance of the Government of Law and Justice declared de facto the financial bankruptcy of this government, they demand 700 million zlotys from us for the museum. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In this bold proposal, because that's what you have to call it... To demand 700 million zlotys for a museum from a nation that is now hitting mortality records on COVID not only in Europe, but also in the world, is impudence, impudence and lack of conscience. And the president of the Institute of National Remembrance appealed for his conscience here. He called for us to have a conscience and give him 700 million zlotys when this money is lacking for the poorest. It is the conscience, the Polish conscience that forbids us to give you this money. On the day when so many Poles are worried about what they will see in their accounts next month, on the day when so many Poles are worried about the price of gold, about the loans that they will have to pay with rising instalments, when so many Poles read leaks from e-mail boxes and worry about how spending on Polish defence is treated... In the face of aggressive Russian politics, this is the most important thing today, and Poles are reading with which disvolution, how shamefully about shopping for the Polish army are discussed by the most important officials in our country. And on the same day someone dares ask the Senators of the Republic to take 700 million PLN from the pockets of suffering Poles and give it to the museum. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, My vote for 700 million PLN for the next meeting of the historical obsession with the financial obsession of this power will not be. I'm not voting for this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Martynowski. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Culture and Communications to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that, after considering point eight, we will proceed with the examination of point ten. After the eighth point, the appointment of members of the Monetary Policy Council. Then we'll consider point nine. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Road Transport Act, the Act on the working time of drivers and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 600 and the committee's report In print No 600 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jan Hamerski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Infrastructure adopted by the Sejm on 15 December Ub. R. Act amending the Road Transport Act, the Drivers' Working Time Act and some other laws. It was a government project. The vote in the Sejm was adopted by a majority, 402 votes were in favour, 12 against, the other Members abstained. December 15th Ub. R. Marshal of the Senate sent the bill to the committee. Following consideration of this law, the committee asks the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. The Act adapts Polish law to the rules of the European Union creating so-called. mobility package, concerning, inter alia, rules on the remuneration of drivers engaged in international road transport in accordance with the rules in force in the host country and their recognition as posted workers. Changes are also being made to increase the effectiveness of supervision of the transport market in Poland, to eliminate unfair competition between carriers and to better protect the internal market. At the committee meeting, you discussed this law and presented it to the committee, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Rafał Weber. A representative of the Legislative Office, Counselor Maciej Telec, presented the opinion on this law and proposed the appropriate amendments. Following the discussion of this law, representatives of the social side attended the meeting, of course, in addition to the members of the committee. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that you have spoken, among others. Chairman of the National Association of Road Transport Employers, President of the Association of Employers I'll be honest with you, I'm very impressed after this committee meeting. Namely, between representatives of the social side, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Legislative Office and of course those taking part in the meeting of the senators, there was a full understanding, as shown by the committee's positive opinion on the summa summarum 14 amendments to this law, including, of course, 3 strict legislative amendments. For this, I would like to thank both the senators and the members of this committee. As I said, the High Senate is ready to adopt the attached draft resolution. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u109	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I would like to refer to this element in your report, in which you mentioned that there were representatives of the industry at the committee meeting. Namely, I have this question: does this regulation impose any additional costs if it comes into force, i.e. This law implementing this directive... Poland has, as I read, an obligation to comply with this directive by 2 February. Does it impose any additional costs, or is it cost-effective for those entrepreneurs who operate on the European market on the basis of the current rules? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u111	Thank you very much, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u112	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, these amendments, which have been tabled, have been tabled, among others. because, so to speak, cooperation between this social element represented by the trade unions in question and the ministry. And it was precisely that there should be no additional costs associated with the operation of these companies in mostly Western Europe. It was also a derogation from the increase in the monetary penalties, which were set out in the annexes to that law. So that, as I mentioned before, I was built up such a pro-social approach both by the ministry and those trade unions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u113	Thank you, Senator. I don't see any more questions. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorized to present the position of the government in the course of parliamentary work... [[Voices from the Chamber: Infrastructure.]] Oh, sorry, Minister of Infrastructure. Would Minister Rafał Weber like to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Let me add a few more points. I thank the senator, Mr Hamerski, for such synthetic information about the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure itself. I would also like to thank you for the discussion at this committee meeting, both to the senators and to the social side, which was active, and not only at this meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, because the social side, of course, here I am referring to the road transport industry, has been active since the beginning of the drafting of these rules. And really many comments, especially those essential remarks and proposals, were included in the draft law adopted by the Sejm. A brief genesis of the legal changes that are currently under discussion. Well, ladies and gentlemen, over the last 5 or 6 years, the European Commission and, above all, the two countries, the largest countries of the European Union, Germany and France, have worked on this, to be clear, and also taking part in meetings of the EU's bodies, have done everything, and have taken such measures to clearly reduce the development opportunities of Polish transport companies. Polish road companies involved in the transport of goods, but also the transport of people, have developed very strongly since Poland entered the European Union. At the moment, we estimate that between 26 and 30%. transport within the Union is precisely the transport carried out by Polish economic operators. Large countries, seeing this, tried to reduce this activity first in these individual countries, while the mobility package 'Cause that's what they call it. The aim is already such a structural and systemic limitation of development opportunities not only for Polish transport companies, but also for transport companies from Central Europe in general. Poland, in questioning the mobility package, was challenged by the TSUE in the latter phase, stressing that the legal provisions which in any way restrict the market competitiveness of economic operators are inadmissible. That's one thing. But second of all, In our view, it should be the most important for EU decision-makers They also have a negative impact on the environment, as requiring vehicles to return to their homes every few weeks is generating additional emissions. Thousands of vehicles that would return to Poland, but also to the Baltic states of Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia In addition, Central Europe, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania would generate unnecessary CO2 emissions. According to the calculation of the Auto Transport Institute, it is 3 million tonnes per year. Well, just so it's not that only Poland used such an analysis... The European Commission has commissioned an independent study which shows a similar scale of environmental pollution. So that we emphasized, using economic arguments, that these environmental elements are very important. Since we're implementing the Fit for package right now, 55... well, the mobility package is something that contradicts this climate package. I hope that this will be noticed that other countries of the European Union will also see this and that the summa summarum of these economic provisions of the mobility package will be amended. Back to the bill, I would add that we had to impose this social part on Polish legislation, i.e. organize a new model of remuneration for international road transport workers, who are called from now on. They work outside the borders of our country by means of posted workers. And that's the main cost. That's what Senator Jackowski asked. Which Polish transport industry since 2 February this year. She's gonna have to wear it. If we had been passive, i.e. if we had not prepared these rules, if we had not created this model, which is proposed, this cost in Europe would have been even greater, because in addition to these salaries, on the basis of Polish legislation, carriers would have to pay wages on the basis of the rules of the country in which their driver carries out the transport activity in which he works in a given month. So that this taxation, the contribution would be double, and, as you know, in Western European countries, this taxation is much higher than in Poland. The provisions we propose ensure the implementation of the mobility package. So that Poland will, I would say, be legally clean and will not threaten Poland or Polish carriers with any repercussions. Secondly, in a maximum way, we will reduce the costs to be incurred from 2 February this year. This has been noticed by the abovementioned carriers, who, as I said, have taken a very active part in the work on this law and at the level of public consultation, and later, at the level of the work in the Sejm. There, too, we have made some amendments, some significant amendments, which were suffocated by road carriers. Working in the Senate Committee on Infrastructure has also resulted in a limited effect, we have greatly reduced the penalties that threaten the failure to comply with the rules. On the other hand, penalties are part of the mobility package and we had to implement them, otherwise we would be exposed to accusations and even higher penalties not only towards the Polish state, but also towards carriers being imposed. In addition, we have clarified some issues related to the exploitation base, how to look, how many parking spaces should be included. The resulting provisions in those other amendments have also been corrected. So, in summing up these few sentences of introduction, I would like to say that we are presenting a law, as the President said, adopted by the Sejm in mid-December of the previous year by a large majority, including the votes of the opposition Members, which means that these are provisions that have been drawn up in the right way, in a good way. They are, of course, a necessity. Like I said, we have no choice if we do not want to generate additional costs on the carrier side. We do it in a way that is the best possible. This is the minimum mini-morum that we can afford, not so much as we need to implement into Polish legislation, so that the transport industry, this road industry, not only can function because it will be able to function, but it can also function in a way... well, develop. I am convinced that Polish carriers, who have done a lot of work in the last 16 years, have built huge corporations that successfully compete with the Western ones in terms of road transport, and will also cope with these problems. They are reliable, reliable, professional. And I am convinced that the Polish state, which, on the one hand, prepared this law, I mean the Ministry of Infrastructure, on the other hand, adopts this law, i.e. The Sejm, the Senate, and then the president, who, I hope, will sign it, will not make the economic conditions of transport companies that will be in force in Poland from 2 February. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u115	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u116	Minister, thank you for this explanation of what this additional cost will be. But now please tell me if my reasoning is right. Well, at one time there was a dispute, let's say, with the European Union, because it was proposed to introduce that Polish guides who employ drivers... to work outside Poland had to pay at the rates in force in the country. At least that was the trend. I understand that this solution is preventing this situation because it would affect the personal costs of transport companies. But I also understand that these solutions, which have been adopted, improve the situation, including the material situation. The drivers who work for these carriers will change their rates. Is my reasoning right? And do you confirm... [[Timer signal]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. Are you confirming this information that the Polish transport industry is about 1/4 of the potential of the European market, or has something changed here? Because I have the data here before the COVID came along, so maybe something's changed here. So we're the power in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u117	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u118	As for the second question, I referred to him. And yes, I confirm, between 26 and 30%. all transport operations carried out within the European Union are transport operations carried out by Polish transport companies, especially cabotage and cross-trade. This is the kind of Polish companies that have developed very strongly in the last 16 years and have gained this market. As for the first issue raised by your senator, yes, I agree that there are two sides to the coin. One side of the coin is employers, i.e. carriers who employ and who are responsible for the proper remuneration of employees, in this case drivers, and they will be affected to some extent by these regulations, because they will have to raise their remuneration to a certain amount, to the average in the national economy, to cover them with ZUS contributions and health contributions, but also to tax. And the other side of the medal is employees who will thus have more money saved into retirement accounts and will receive more sickness benefits when they are sick and will be staying on L4. And they will, of course, benefit from it in this sense. So these two sides of the coin are opposite here. We were trying to find a golden measure so that we would not create solutions that would cause the collapse of Polish transport companies, because this was what we feared most, i.e. that the increase in costs will be large enough that even orders that will be received in the West will not allow profit to be earned, will not allow to maintain what has already been earned, which has already been achieved by the time. So, that seems to me to be supported by the Sejm, that these provisions are the best solution, they are a compromise, on the one hand filling in what is the result of the mobility package, on the other hand improving in some way the social situation of workers, which are posted drivers or drivers in international transport, and on the other hand they will not burden employers enough to have to go bankrupt, they must fall and, so to speak, lose what they have already gained.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u119	Thank you. [[Can I ask you another question?]] In a minute, Mr. Senator. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u120	Maybe I missed it. I have a question. Six amendments were tabled in the Seym, quite important, and from what I have read, it appears that you have declared that these amendments will be taken into account during the Senate work. Were they really taken into account? Mr President here said that the amendments in the committee were accepted, but how many of these 6 were taken into account in the present procedure of the Senate Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u121	Five and a half amendments have been taken into account, because one in part, also after discussions with the industry, we have resigned and five amendments have been implemented in its entirety in terms of intentions. Of course, these regulations had to take a different shape, so that no one would colloquially cling to them, but the intention itself was fulfilled. I told you: the operating base and the penalties were two fundamental issues that emerged during the seym work of the transporters' environment. They were properly regulated by the Senate amendments which were tabled at the meeting of the Senate Committee on Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u122	Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u123	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask you an ancillary question about those issues I've been asking the Minister about. Do transporters in conversations with the resort After all, do you have any contact with the social side, with the businessmen, have they said anything about a certain loss of competitiveness compared to those conditions that are currently in place? 'Cause they're gonna have to pay some costs. Was this aspect addressed in these conversations? Will this not affect the potential of the Polish transport industry, which, you can say, is impressive? Probably few areas of economic activity of Poland have such a large share in the common European market. This is admirable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u124	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u125	There are concerns of Polish transporters that these conditions of competitiveness will be distorted and will not be as good for us as they have been so far. Fortunately, they will apply to all countries, carriers from all countries of the European Union. Here, in some sense, concerns may concern carriers from outside the European Union, but they go to Western Europe in a regulated way, on the basis of permits that have been established between countries, so that it is not so that we will suddenly have an influx of drivers from abroad in the European Union and that they will deny those who have been operating here for decades. So there's a fear that the costs will go up. For the sake of clarity, I will say that we do not change the remuneration or pay model for domestic transport, so that all those who operate in the country will not be affected by these rules. So it can be said that Polish society, if it carries goods or orders goods in the country, will have nothing to do with these changes, especially in terms of price increases for transport. This increase will concern transport from abroad, whether in bilateral transport or in cabotage. So that such fear is, but I am convinced, and I will repeat that Polish carriers who have proven that they can cope with these conditions, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u126	Thank you, Minister. I can't hear any more questions. Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komornicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The purpose of the law is to transpose into the Polish legal order art. 2 Directive 2020/1057 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2020 coming from the so-called "European Union'. mobility package. Member States were obliged to take the necessary measures to implement it, and here is a very important remark, until 2 February 2022, and the Minister also spoke about it. From this day forward, we must take these measures. According to its recital, the directive aims to create the so-called. the safe, efficient and socially responsible road transport sector. The aim of this Directive is to ensure a balance between improving the social and working conditions of drivers and increasing the freedom to provide road transport services, based, of course, on fair competition between domestic and foreign carriers. This should therefore contribute to improving the functioning of the road transport market throughout the European Union. The proposed law introduces changes aimed at increasing the effectiveness of supervision of the transport services market in Poland, eliminating unfair competition between carriers and better protecting the internal market against unfair competition from non-EU carriers. The draft law, of course, also aims to ensure the application of the provisions of the amending regulation as regards minimum requirements for maximum daily and weekly driving times, minimum breaks and daily and weekly rest periods and amending Regulation No 165 of 2014 as regards the determination of the position by tachographs. Unfortunately, attention should be paid to the tardiness of the government and the implementation of this directive at the last minute. There's very little time left until February 2. This will make it difficult for transport companies to properly prepare for this new law. Attention should also be paid to the failure of the government in negotiations with the European Union, aimed at securing Polish transport companies as much as possible. Unfortunately, at a time of inflation in Poland, expensive fuel and the COVID-19 pandemic, companies will lose their profitability, Minister, which could threaten bankruptcy and job losses. I'm sure the carriers will turn the cost of operations into their co-operators. It's obvious. But at the end there is the last link, the consumer, and thus we will soon see an increase in retail prices and service prices. We can't run away from the economic consequences. The result of the mobility package is, unfortunately, a deterioration of the conditions of operation of Polish companies. And it's the government's fault, unfortunately, Mr. Minister. This is directly the fault of the government, which, instead of taking care of economic interests, as the French and Germans do, has become involved in a senseless and losing political war on control of the justice system. Today the ministry and the government are outraged that the Germans, the French, are fighting for their own. However, we demand from the government: fight for Polish companies, fight for the Polish economy, not politics, because there are really other places for this. And in the end... Senator Maria Jackowski was right about the fact that Polish transport companies are salt in the eye of competition in Europe. I, preparing for the speech, had a meeting with 6 owners of large transport companies. They have a great regret, Minister, that for so many years you left them alone on the market, that you didn't really take care of it until now. And one more thing: what is most important, Minister, we do not have in the country such production and technology as Europe and the world have. Transport companies and furniture companies are our window to Europe and to the world. And we should take care of them because we have lost the last six years in investments, we are at the end of Europe. I therefore appeal on behalf of these entrepreneurs and ask that they be taken care of. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u128	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u129	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Chamber of Commerce for Urban Communications has asked us to amend the article. 31b, motivating this with far-reaching negative consequences for urban transport. We can read in the justification of this proposal that leaving a fragment of the law, precisely this article. 31b, in the current shape voted in the Seym, has profound and burdensome consequences for both organisers and public transport operators as well as, perhaps most, for passengers and drivers themselves. Moreover, including the explanatory memorandum, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Urban Communications also claim that the project was amended at the last minute without giving social partners, such as the Chamber of Commerce, the opportunity to present the situation in public transport. Next, representatives of this organisation say that, of course, the focus of the work on the law on so-called issues. The mobility package for adapting the right to European regulation is understandable, but the issue of public transport covering more than 80% of all passenger transport throughout public transport in our country should also be taken into account. And what negative effects do the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Urban Communications have on the current record? They claim that the new wording of the provision causes each driver service, during which at least 6 hours of driving is provided, to provide not for 2 but 3 breaks of at least 15 minutes, possibly one half-hour and the other 15 minutes. The timetables in public transport, especially in large agglomerations with high traffic intensity, do not provide for so many breaks today. This means, according to the Chamber, a revolution for organisers and urban transport operators. First of all, you're gonna have to reconstruct all the timetables, and so on. Of course, it's to be done, but it's also a cost. Name countless signs at the stops. And this reconstruction of the timetables will consist in increasing the number of breaks, and an increase in the number of breaks will have to reflect on the transport offer for passengers. If the vehicle is standing at the ends, there'll just be less crossings. This will also result in a revolution in the employment system of driving vehicles, as they will be interrupted outside vehicles, e.g. at social points at the ends of their journeys. This means further a direct increase in the number of services, i.e. also employment, by about 5 and 10%. This situation will be particularly critical for tram carriers. By nature, especially as a result of the limited track layout on loops, timetables for tram lines do not always provide for enough breaks, because longer breaks would simply block these loops. Due to previous staff shortages, it is expected that transport work cannot be maintained in public transport at the current level, which will translate into restrictions on bus and tram running. So... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I don't know what was so funny about my speech at the government side, but I hope you'll be able to respond later and share with us the funnyness of this situation. And in view of what I said, on behalf of Senators Jadwiga Rotnicka, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Stanisław Lamczyk, Marcin Bosacki, Ryszard Świlski and Janusz Pęcherz, I am making an amendment concerning the article. 31b. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Thank you, Senator.]] I would like to thank the government's side for its attention to quite important, I think, changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u130	Please take the floor of Senator Jack Bury.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As my colleague Władysław Komarnicki mentioned here, the bill is a adaptation of Polish law to EU regulations. I would like to remind you that these regulations have been discussed within the European Union for several years. The Polish side, of course, also took part in these discussions. What we are dealing with today is an adjustment, but this is an adjustment to the smaller opportunities that we as Poles, as Polish business, have in the European Union at the moment. To the smaller opportunities that have been negotiated by our government. Weak was a negotiation. It seems that Poland was a power before, as far as the transport market is concerned. This is one of the economic sectors within which we have been and yet we are a power in the European Union. If someone dreams of great Poland, I will tell him: Poland was great in transport. I would like the Polish economy to be great in Europe all the time, not only in the past but also in the future. What happened as a result of negotiations with the European Union? Because of the weakness of our country's government, we have established a glass ceiling. I'm talking about the Polish people, thinking about the Polish business. Now we're gonna bounce off this ceiling. It was like this before: sky was the limit. Not now, we have a glass ceiling now. I want to show some respect for the Ministry of Infrastructure, the people who are in charge of transport, who are now responsible for the situation in this industry. In fact, this bill, which we are currently working on in the Senate, gives us the opportunity to maximize the use of this ceiling to the ceiling. Respect for you. It's a shame this ceiling was suspended so low. Thank you to the Ministry, I really thank you that many proposals which were originally submitted have been removed and which would completely put Polish transport. Thank you for this gesture of cooperation, for treating business normally. It is only a pity that negotiations with the European Union had already collapsed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u132	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u133	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would also like to refer to the negotiations on the mobility package. I must admit that the arguments and commitment of Polish transporters, who were able to build a wonderful line of defence, a substantive line of defence against the proposals made by Members of the European Parliament from the western side, were very much. The lack of government support has really led the negotiations to fail with the best solutions for our transporters. Let me give you a very simple example of the rest we fought so hard for. We wanted it to be rational, and in fact this situation caused earlier regulations of the European Commission which forced Polish transport to purchase cars with properly equipped cabins. In fact, the cost of purchasing new transport equipment was 30, 40, 50 000 euros higher and the period of use was short due to the mobility package, which forced completely different solutions for rest. The lack of government involvement in the negotiations is precisely where there were very many arguments, because the proposals made by Members for this rest to take place in hotels where there is no infrastructure at all that would allow such rest... This has made today both French and Germans, using the rights of Macron or using Milogu, very intensively control Polish carriers, impose for any nonsense, for a small failure very high penalties, which also affect how costly it is to operate in this field, in this industry. Also the lack of interest and lack of defence in cases where often our transporters are wrongly punished... The lack of government commitment to defending them in such situations makes these situations more and more. I must admit that I do not understand why the Polish government, having such a wonderful partner as transport organisations, who have built their position on the international stage, in the European Union, together with other countries... We have heard here that actually Polish transport is salt in the eye of Western Europe. This is not true, Mr Senator, because Western European drivers are not interested in long-distance transport, which requires a week's work, sometimes several weeks' work to be carried out, to deliver goods. They are only interested in short distances that allow them to return home for the weekend. Therefore, our drivers are not exactly salt in the eye, on the contrary, carrying out these most difficult tasks, and these most difficult tasks, as a result of the lack of interest in our government, carry out in the most difficult conditions. And I am very sorry that this interest is still lacking from the Polish government in transport on the international stage, which is actually even more than a quarter of the total transport at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u134	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, senators or rather senators, Senators Gromko, Świlski, Golba, Czelej, Szwed, Hamerski... no, Hamersky does not Godyla, Łyczak and Bladder have submitted their speeches to the minutes. Legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Hamerski, Bury, Pociej with 7 other Senators and Senator Hare. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I will try to refer to the statements made by the senators and to the proposals presented in the form of amendments. And maybe I'll start with the amendment that Senator Pociej referred to. We also spoke with representatives of the Chamber of Commerce for Urban Communications, even after the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure last week, declaring openness to the problem presented by these countries. And as a result of this openness, an amendment has been prepared to implement the intention presented by Senator Pociej. I know that this amendment was tabled by the senator, Mr Hamerski. So that the Chamber of Commerce for Urban Communications can be calm. I hope that the senators, along with the bill, will approve this amendment, and we will do everything we can to persuade the majority of the parliament to introduce this amendment, probably tomorrow in the plenary session of the Sejm. That's one thing. Other cases that have emerged in the statements of the senators have a political thread. In my first speech, I did everything I could to avoid politics, and I think I did it, and I didn't refer to the times of the past, those earlier governments of the Civic Platform. However, I cannot leave without the echo of the statements that accuse the current government or the Ministry of Infrastructure in the fight against the mobility package. We have not negotiated anything with the European Union or with the European Commission. We have challenged what has been established by them to the Court of Justice of the European Union. We're not the only ones... [[But...]] Senator, in a minute. Not only did we, but also nine other countries, i.e. a total of 10 countries, mostly Central Europe, challenge the entire provisions of the mobility package, hoping that after these analyses and expert reports that I mentioned in the first statement, which show that this has an extremely adverse effect on the climate and the environment, generating an additional emissions of more than 3 million t per year, but this reflection will take place. That is the signal from the European Union Transport Commission. Well, the facts and figures cannot be denied, and I hope that, although in this area, the facts, figures and expertise, I will repeat: prepared at the request of the European Commission, however, will result in reflection and amendment of legislation which have a negative impact on the environment. They also have a negative economic impact: competitiveness and reduction of cross-trade or cabotage capacity. So that here the fight continues all the time. Believe me, Minister Andrzej Adamczyk has also carried out almost all his visits to Brussels in the context of the mobility package and taking further action, including with the MEPs, to show the harmful consequences of this document. However, it is important to say whose child the mobility package is. The mobility package is the child of European diplomats, politicians associated with the EPP group. After all, it was Mr Ertug who pushed these rules, he was the face of these changes. And let me remind you that EPP is the main... [[He wasn't in the EPP. What nonsense are you talking about?]] ...form, which also includes MEPs of the Civic Platform. So that if there should be a blow to the chest here, it should be in your own. The mobility package was also willingly supported by the MEPs who were introduced into Parliament from the list of the Civic Platform in 2019 and who moved to the left-wing faction. They even voted directly in favour, saying that these provisions are beneficial from a worker's point of view, although this may not be the case to the end, we will see what we will see in this short future. That's two. And thirdly, I asked your Members at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure and in the plenary room... I ask for at least one quote from a person who, between 2014 and 2019, was President of the Council of the European Union, although one quote from the previous President's statement, negating the mobility package. Because what's different is the 27 governments, and what's different is that the person who seems to have authority should have a lot to say, because that person was created in EU structures. I repeat my request once again: at least one quote from the then President of the Council of the European Union who denies the mobility package. Members did not find this quote, Members could not find such a quote, I think it is because simply such a statement, and even an interest in this topic then was not on the part of the President at that time. Another issue is the cost issue. Since these regulations concern international transport, which is largely carried out by Polish companies in the form of cabotage or cross-trade, these costs will be borne by the inhabitants of Western European countries. If the Polish entrepreneur serves the route Germany France, these costs will be borne by the public and Germany, and France. That's the absurdity of the rules. EU politicians from these countries have imposed an additional cost burden on their citizens. Once again, the mobility package does not concern domestic transport. We don't change anything around here, we don't change anything here. We don't add a new one, we don't regulate anything here. I know it's hard to believe. Ladies and gentlemen, I couldn't believe it at first, either, but that's how it's gonna be. Consequently, the costs of the mobility package will be passed on to the last recipient, and in most cases the latter customer lives in Germany, France, the Benelux countries, Spain. That's where the costs will be visible. I am convinced that Polish entrepreneurs will still be able to function and operate successfully in the European Union so far, and that perfectly in these new difficult conditions, because these are difficult conditions, they will manage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u136	Thank you, Minister, for this non-political speech. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the special powers of persons affected in the event of exhaustion of the guarantee sum established on the basis of the provisions in force before 1 January 2006. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 488 and the committee's report In print No 488 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present, on behalf of 2 committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Senate's draft law on the special powers of victims in the event of exhaustion of the guarantee sum established on the basis of the provisions in force before 1 January 2006. I'd like to start with the history of these regulations. This project refers to the law that we adopted in 2019 and was a Senate project. This project was born on the citizens' initiative, which was carried out by Mr Tomasz Piesiecki, who was in this Chamber today. What was the project about? Before 1 January 2006, the courts ruled on the victims of motor accidents a specific amount which was paid to them in the form of an old-age pension. At a time when the amount decided by the court on the victim of an accident was exhausted, the person concerned received, e.g. a month before such an amount is exhausted, information that this pension will no longer be paid from the following month, as the sum has been exhausted. This is not the case since 1 January 2006, unless, in accordance with EU rules, this amount of compensation has been raised to EUR 5 million, so it is virtually impossible for this amount to be exhausted. There have been no such cases. Previously, such cases were because it was referred to the insurance sums that were in force in the 1990s or before 1989. The Senate Initiative, which we adopted in 2019 and which became the law of Mr.Piesiecki initiated it to ensure that, if such a sum was exhausted, the further payment of this pension was taken over by the Insurance Guarantee Fund. And that's what happened. Previously, these individual persons have been brought to justice in individual trials, and such a solution has been decided by the courts. Since 2019, this has been simply a rule. In 2020, the Ombudsman, Professor Adam Bodnar, addressed Marshal Grodzki with a letter stating that he believed that there were 24 people who had suffered such accidents before 1 January 2006 abroad, so that the provision we introduced in 2019 did not cover them. The Insurance Guarantee Fund therefore refuses to assume the obligation to continue to pay such benefits. In this connection, Mr Bodnar's letter of 2020, as well as the signals I received from the various victims, allowed ourselves over the party divisions All political actors represented in the Senate are present among the initiators of this project . prepare a draft law which these 24 persons include. The cost of implementing this bill is PLN 17 million. I would like to thank the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance very warmly on this project. I would also like to thank the representatives of the insurance institutions, which, as I say, have accepted this solution without protests. And I want to announce one thing right away. When our meeting of the two committees ended, a certain remark was made by the representative of the Chamber of Motor Insurance that this original draft should be further detailed. We agreed then that we would vote on it at the committee meeting as it is, and if we needed to table an amendment, I would propose such an amendment in the plenary debate. It is about the amendment that makes it more specific, so that we are sure that we are covering all those who, so to speak, are subject to such a situation. And in a moment, in the part of the sitting for speeches, I will make such an amendment. I would like to thank you from the Chamber of Motor Insurance, who pointed out the need for this clarification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u138	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and at the same time an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Jan Filip Libicki to represent them. No such questions, Mr. Senator. [[Can I speak in the discussion then?]] Yes, of course. [[Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, let me briefly state what this amendment is about. She's concerned with this...]] Excuse me, is there a government representative? [[There isn't.]] There isn't? Because first... [[May I?]] Go ahead, sir. [[I understand there's been an open discussion.]] Yes, sir. I'm opening a discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u139	Good. Thank you very much. I want to say yes. It has been pointed out that at the time of our entry into the European Union, our motor insurance became EU insurance. Hence the increase in this amount, which I was talking about, to EUR 5 million. And before that, if someone wanted to go abroad, they had to buy insurance like this. It was called voluntary insurance, but it was de facto compulsory insurance, because if someone didn't have it, it wasn't allowed into this country. At the time of his departure from Poland to Germany or to the Czech Republic, he was simply not admitted. We applied this solution and the wording that spoke about compulsory insurance. In this way, those who formally included voluntary insurance, which was de facto compulsory, would not be included in this solution. This is what the Chamber of Motor Insurance pointed out. And such an amendment, formulated in pkt 1b, is a statement that these are voluntary insurances that were in force at that time, allow me to put on the hands of the marshal. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Here's the amendment. So much for me. Thank you very much. I'll ask Mr. Paul to...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u140	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed has submitted his statement to the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Jan Filip Libicki. The discussion is closed. [[Voice from the hall: Yet Mr. Libicki wants to speak...]] Yes? More?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u141	Because you asked me to say so, to give you the right formula, so I'm gonna give it to you. [[Yeah, yeah.]] I would like to request that the committees be given a deadline for preparing an additional report to carry out a third reading of the draft law still at this meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u142	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] There is no government representative, which means he will not respond to the proposal. As a legislative proposal has been made, the Senate is sending the bill to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Senator Libicki has requested that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I can't hear the voices of opposition. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 580, and that the examination of the committee in print No. 580 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u143	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee and the Legislative Commission at their meeting on 10 January prepared a draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate and request the Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution, which is written in print No. 580 S. The purpose of the draft resolution tabled by the group of senators is to introduce a time limit for certain statements at the Senate meeting, e.g. answers to senator's inquiries for up to 6 minutes and speeches by government representatives taking the floor in order to present the bill for up to 30 minutes. This is an important reservation: in all these cases, the marshal will have the opportunity to extend the time of the question or occurrence. That's one thing. Secondly, the project allows the submission of senatorial statements containing requests, comments or questions addressed to the members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of public or local authorities In addition to the Senate meetings, this will allow senators to use a more flexible tool as provided for in the Senate Rules of Procedure in Article. 49 and thus contribute to a more efficient use of the Senator's mandate. This matter on the committee raised the most... well, I'm not gonna say controversy, but discussion. Not all of these proposals have perhaps been properly interpreted by the participants in this debate... [[Voice from the room: What's going on here?]] It must be clarified and explained at the committee meeting that these statements made outside the Senate will by nature not be subject to the restriction contained in the Article. Article 49 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure which do not allow declarations on matters on the agenda of the meeting to be made. This is simply a provision that will allow us to use the institution of the declaration much more effectively in our parliamentary work. Senators will also be able to make multiple statements in this mode at once without fear that the total time of their possible delivery would exceed 5 minutes. Thus, if none of these claims is within 5 minutes according to the standards adopted, there will be no quantitative restrictions in this respect. However, it remains binding and in this case the Marshal's authority to refuse to accept an unpublished statement if it is impossible to establish its contents or if it is obvious that it would not be possible to make that statement within 5 minutes. During the meeting, a large part of our discussion concerned the substance of the statement and the comparison of the institution with the interpellation institution or the parliamentary question. We know that the powers of the Sejm and the Members in this area are greater and stem directly from the Constitution. The institution of the statement is actually some kind of parliamentary thing in the Senate. It can be said that due to the essence of the statements through successive terms we have developed a proper perception of the statement by many institutions, including government institutions, almost like the parliamentary interpellation, although in fact they are structurally and legally very different. One of the voices in the discussion was, moreover, a rather interesting proposal to hold a debate on this subject with constitutionalists who would like to talk about our relations and our powers in relation to the powers of Members in such a constitutional debate. Finally, the last amendment was to adapt the Senate Rules to the new regulation which was introduced in the Radio and Television Act, i.e. the requirement that the resolutions of the Sejm and the Senate reject the report of the National Radio and Television Council contain a justification, which serves to fully implement the Audiovisual Media Services Directive. Finally, the only amendment voted by the committee. The Commission expressed by a majority its favourable opinion on Senator Kwiatkowski's proposal for a change which enables the appointment of more than one deputy head of the firm. This is a codification of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. So much for the report. I know that the minutes have been submitted to the Marshal's staff by proposals for amendments which will probably be the subject of the next joint committee meeting, which is why, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask for a deadline to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft at this Senate meeting. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u144	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and at the same time an authorised representative of the applicants. The applicants also authorized Senator Sławomir Rybicki to represent them. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u145	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Dear Senators! Mr. Marshal! I'd like to ask you about the nature of the senator's statement today. Well, the essence of parliamentarians' work is, of course, work on laws. But is it so today that while we're working on billings that come down from the Sejm... We have 30 days to do this, usually the first and only Senate meeting, which is on that date. Is the formula that is in force today, based on the rules of procedure, that... At the Senate meeting I cannot ask in the form of a statement about a particular bill, because this item is on the agenda of the sitting, e.g. ask for additional information that would make it easier for me to prepare for legislative work on the bill. Nor can I do this before the meeting because today's Rules of Procedure do not provide for this. In practice, is the current formula not completely dysfunctional in terms of efficiency in carrying out senatorial duties and real work on legislative projects?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u147	Thank you for that question. It is crucial, I would say, and it was discussed in various aspects at the meeting. Indeed, at present, the Rules of Procedure in the Rule. 49 sets out a senator's statement as a senator's right, which, after the agenda has been exhausted, has the opportunity to make a statement or to make a statement to the minutes. In a situation where meetings are often or increasingly frequent every month or every few weeks, the senator actually does not have any other tools, either under the Rules of Procedure or under the Act on the Implementation of the mandate of a Member and a Senator, except for the Senator's intervention, because this is the kind of tool that allows us to go to the office and ask for documents... Well, there is no formal instrument to ask state authorities, public institutions, government representatives about important aspects of our daily work, including work on laws. Thus, it seems that this proposal to make statements between the meetings will equip us with a tool that will also allow us to better prepare for all issues relating to the work on the laws that are the subject of the next Senate meetings. Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u148	I have a question too, Senator. Does the time limit for replying to these statements remain the same, i.e. monthly?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u149	Yes, Mr. Marshal. Nothing changes in this respect. In this respect, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure remain unchanged. The answer should be given Well, we know what it's like in practice. Within 30 days from the moment it hits...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u150	Thank you very much. My question was in the context of the answer to the previous question. Senator Stanisław Gogacz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u151	I have a question for Senator President, the rapporteur. I'd ask you to define the record that's being amended. Namely, I am referring to the formulation of also outside the Senate meetings. These statements are addressed to the Council of Ministers, representatives of bodies, institutions, etc., etc. While it is in the current legal state that a statement can only be made during the Senate meeting, a note will now appear also outside the Senate meetings and nothing more. I would like to draw the senator's attention to what I have already tried to do in the debate at the committee meeting to point out that there is now a definition of what it means to make... when a senator's statement can be made. In the current state of law, it's so... [[Timer signal]] ...that a senator's statement may be made on the last day of the Senate meeting. We have the last day of the Senate meeting. And now we add that we can also make a statement outside the meeting. What does that mean? Every day that the Senate doesn't attend. Of course, it's a five-minute statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u152	Yes, Mr. Senator. That's how I understand it, and I think that was explained by the head of the Legal Office. At the closing of the sitting there shall be a time between the meetings. From the closing of the sitting, we may make statements in person or in correspondence until the beginning of the next sitting. This is the period between meetings. At the end of the meeting, the period after the meeting, i.e. between meetings, shall begin.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u153	Thank you very much. [[But shouldn't that be regulated?]] Mr. Senator, I'll let you speak again. Excuse me. [[I'd like to ask if it shouldn't be...]] You're not asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u154	It seems to me, Senator, that this is to be interpreted. This means that, between the meetings, from the closing of the sitting until the opening of the next sitting.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u155	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I'd like to ask you about Amendment 1. She showed up during the commission's work, originally it wasn't. We're increasing the number of deputy heads of the Senate. This is the marshal's right to be clear from one to more. We simply replace the word "substitute" with "substitutes." What does that tell you? Are there any structural changes in the firm? Is the marshal going to hire more than one deputy? What is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u157	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u158	Mr. Senator, I can't answer the question about the intentions of the firm's operation, because it's not the authority of the head of the rule board, it's the marshal and the head of the Senate. So in this respect, I'm not gonna give the senator an answer. You were a member of this committee. If I recall correctly, this proposal, adopted by the joint committees, was not the subject of debate. She was tabled by Senator Kwiatkowski and voted by the committee. I even noted here that 18 senators were in favour, 2 against, 10 abstentions. We did not debate this amendment. I think we missed that change in the debate. We took it mostly with only two votes against. I recall the words made when I tabled this amendment. The senator said it was to standardize the rules. It is formulated in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm in this way and this is the codification. This is how I recall our brief conversation in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u159	Thank you. Senator Czerwinski again.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's the explanation that brought me up to speed, but the biggest flavors we always leave at the end. If that's how we introduce the possibility of calling more than one deputy, then something's wrong here. That's not how it's supposed to be done, not by these kind of regulatory changes. And the argument that we harmonise it with what's going on in the Seym... Ladies and gentlemen, these are different law firms, they have different responsibilities, and there are different numbers of subordinates, in quotes, of course, whether they are served by the 460 Members and 100 Senators. I'm a little concerned, but it might explain during the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u161	Mr. Senator, I've presented it faithfully. Yeah, I think so. What was going on in the committee. I can only repeat that the management of the Senate Office and the status of the firm But this is the domain of the marshal. We are merely creating an opportunity for the marshal to benefit or not. That's his exclusive prerogative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u162	Thank you very much. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u163	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, are there any tools that, in case there's no response to the statement sent, allow you to react to the lack of such an answer?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u164	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u165	There are such regulation tools, although very soft. A marshal maybe within the framework of... Well, that's because of the marshal's competence to uphold the dignity of the Senate and the powers of the senators. He may address the addressee of such a statement and express his expectation that this answer will take place. But here, of course, there is no possibility of a hard, material execution. There's nothing you can do to the recipient of our statement. You can't make any delinquency, you can't impose any sanctions. He can only be asked to comply with the rules on the relationship between the executive and the legislative authorities to exercise his powers.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u166	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. If we accept these changes to the statements, this requirement that the declaration must not relate to the matter discussed at a given Senate meeting... Because that's how it is right now. Mr. Marshal returns such statements. This is the situation I've been dealing with. Well, it was considered that... although it didn't have a direct connection. It concerned the matter of the bill, but not the law itself. I understand that from now on, there will be no such requirement. How is this to be interpreted? I'm asking you to explain this to us.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u168	Mr. Senator, the statements that have been our authority so far remain. On the day of the Senate meeting, we have the right to make a statement, either personally or in the minutes, and all the requirements are described in the Rules of Procedure. The proposal we are voting on or debating extends our powers to the possibility of making a statement between meetings. This could apply to all matters of interest to us. We direct statements to specific addressees, these addressees are described in the Rules of Procedure. [[Thank you very much. Mr. Senator...]] [[I'd just like to ask. I understand that this standard, that the statement may not be about... I'm talking about the practical implementation of this record. It's gonna be about the fact that, as it happens at the meeting, it can't be about the meeting, but if it folds up after the meeting...]] You can ask the senator. on statutory issues concerning the subject of the next Senate meeting in order to better prepare for parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u169	Thank you. Senator Gogacz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u170	I would like to refer to Senator Jackowski's question. It is precisely this ban on making statements that affect the legislative matter that was considered at the last meeting. Well, it could happen that it's going to happen in the same day. Mr. Marshal tells us with a cane that this is the end of the Senate meeting, and the same day, after this communication, you can, as I understand it, ask such questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u171	Mr. Senator, I answer logic like before. The closing of the sitting shall take place in a specific manner and from that moment on we shall have this additional power. We can make these statements at that time, but later, just between meetings.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u172	Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. But outside the Senate, statements will, of course, be made in writing, not orally. Yes? [[Before the marshal...]] The further into the forest, the more trees.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u173	Mr. Marshal, for the sake of logic... This wasn't discussed, so I can only answer politely. For the record, if there's no sitting, there's no way to make a speech. But you can send correspondence, whether it's by mail or e-mail. I think the Senate Office, if we vote on these amendments, will arm us with information on how this should be done.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u174	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Senator...]] Oh, and Senator Rotnicka. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u175	Very briefly. I would like to make a proper reference to this reply by the President, because in point 2 concerning those statements made outside the time limit, apart from the sitting, it is said that this is immediately transmitted by the marshal to the addressees concerned. That's what makes us need some kind of regulation. as to how and where this correspondence is directed. Because it can't be directed to the Senate Office. Well, I think it'd be worth it...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u176	Mrs. Senator, we are now also making a statement to the marshal addressed to a particular addressee. [[But it's right here in the courtroom...]] Yeah, in the gym. [[In the O.R.]] The same will be true of correspondence. You will send a statement to the marshal that you are sending to the Prime Minister, to the Minister of Infrastructure or to any other person. [[But by name? Bogdan Borusewicz, the marshal, or the Senate Chancellery?]] Through the marshal. It's the marshal who's sending a statement to raise his rank. It's not sent by the senator directly to the minister, it's sent by the marshal... [[I see.]] ...to give this declaration the right rank. And nothing changes here.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u177	Thank you, Senator, Mr President. And now I'm opening a discussion. I'd like the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. [[I'm still here, Mr. Marshal...]] Oh, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u178	I've read it once, but for the correctness of the rules... [[Again.]] In order for our regulations to be met, I would ask you to set a deadline for committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. I'll do it. I did it earlier, but I should have done it at the end. [[No...]] Well, I did.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u179	It's in the middle of a discussion. Because I've already opened the discussion, it was your voice. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I took part in a meeting of the Legislative Commission, where we discussed this draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure together with the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. In my speech, I would like to focus on the issue of the statements, not to mention the other solutions which also triggered the discussion. No, among others. The argument was used that since, say, a government representative extends the time of the answer to questions... But that's actually quite rare. Although that's what happened, I'll give you that. Well, there's a rule-of-law rule that the host marshal can take into account the extension of that time. I believe that we will benefit from this in substance, if necessary. As for the structure of the firm or the deputy head of the firm, I would not like to speak in detail at the moment. I'll concentrate on the statements. From the beginning, from the day I became a senator of the Republic of Poland, I very much appreciate this means of fulfilling the mandate of the Senator of the Republic of Poland. If you followed the statistics, it would probably turn out that I am in the forefront, among those who make the most statements, not in one or the other term, but in all the terms in which I sat in the Senate, regardless of who was in opposition and who was in power. Because I'm trying to execute the senator's mandate in this way, my statements are most often a fallout of meetings with voters, the result of signals that come to me as a senator. I regretted for years that unfortunately we do not have the authority that every Member of the Polish Parliament has. Until recently it was not yet submitted electronically, but each Member could theoretically bring 1 thousand interpellations to the secretariat of the Marshal of the Sejm at 6 a.m. Well, I'm talking about the theoretical situation. And they had to be accepted, decreed, sent, etc. Situations in which someone made several hundred rather similar interpellations have already happened in the Seym. All you had to do was ask the mayor, the mayor, or the president. Well, how many municipalities are there? Over 2,000 800. Those were similar questions, for example. the effects that a given regulation will have on the territory of one or such municipality. Theoretically, such an interpellation could be submitted repeatedly. This is the instrument I envied to the Members. I'd say something that maybe we talk less about here. However, the interpellation is described in almost a different way than the statement. And that too... I don't want to develop this subject right now, but that's a pretty important premise. It seems to me that the level of response to statements or interpellations, timeliness, and we know that it can be different from this, indicates the quality of power, because questions are usually addressed to the current rulers and relate to matters related to current events or the legislative process. I therefore welcome the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure with great satisfaction. I think it's a good thing, and I'm glad that de facto the quantitative or volume limit is also being abolished. I remember when Marshal Borusewicz was... The term of office in 2011 and 2015 was the eighth term. Yes? Or nine o'clock? It was the ninth term, Mr. Marshal was a marshal. I once made 40 one-sounding interpellations, but to various institutions. And then the head of the firm, Minister Polkowska, pointed out that I had exceeded five minutes. In fact, as far as volume is concerned, the number of characters, or letters, was exceeded, but thanks to the courtesy of your marshal, we managed to work out a way to interpret this fact. I quote this as an anecdote at the moment, but it shows that there is a limit here, especially if it is required for example. addition of source documents, which are necessarily extensive, some attachments and such additions. I believe that such statements, I would say, will be made at the meeting, and such more problematic, requiring the attachment of some set of documents will be made in accordance with the new rule book. I think this is very positive, because this is how we are expanding our ability to carry out the mandate that we exercise by the will of the voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u181	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, I have a negative attitude towards the changes that are being proposed. I am among those who voted against at the committee meeting. I'll try to explain why these changes are wrong. There are those that are obvious, that's one of those changes. Namely it changes, I would call it, an outer environment. In this case, an amendment to the Act on Radio and Television has been adopted and the powers of the Senate have changed somewhat, which we must include in the Rules of Procedure. In the case of such, I would call it, the external causes are obvious that this must be included in our regulations. There's nothing to stop at. It is different in case of a change from the first point. What I was talking about earlier is point six. It is a matter of innocence, in total, to replace the word "deputy" and the Marshal appoints an alternate. At the word of the Deputy Chief of the Senate. And now the question is, what is the cause? Of course, you can, in quotes, shoot, say that it's an adaptation, etc. But this recipe is... Such competence was probably added to the marshal in June of that year, so it's been a while. Isn't it just a matter of... by the way, I'm going to point out that the deputy chiefs of the Senate are being referred to It's about that one recipe. Isn't that how we open the path to building a Senate Staff Office? From the point of view of competence or the responsibilities that this entity fulfils, this institution... They didn't come much, let's face it. At least I'd like to know from the applicant. I hope to hear it. Why is that? But there are things even more serious, that is The question of statements. Well, most of us, I see, are enthusiastic about this recipe so we can make statements outside of the meeting. I'm not really, because that's how we want to be a little bit like the Sejm. We shouldn't force ourselves into the Sejm. For two reasons. The first reason is obvious: only the Sejm, not the Senate. Despite the fact that these chambers are often treated as parallels Only the Sejm has a constitutional obligation to control the work of the government, the Council of Ministers. This means that we are not entitled to this privilege, and that also means that by method, I would call it, some kind of depropriation, in quotes, of course, by the method of fighting in combat, we are sort of cutting out, also in quotes, a larger range of statements. Because our statements include the Seym Interpellations, and the Seym Questions, and the Declarations of Strict Sejm Meaning. And if so, they have, I would say, more meaning. Sometimes here are statements signed by a group of senators, and only by one made, they have some kind of political connotation. What does that mean? That means they should be used differently, in my opinion. I mean, you can't. We shouldn't be too close. I am able to imagine such a situation that, as in the Seym, there may be people who will have 1 thousand 800 statements in their account within 2 years, or 2 statements a day, written holidays, Friday. Well, you'll notice. I'm sorry, but I We don't check anybody anymore, we don't talk to the public, we don't make those statements, we can have office employees. A bizarre race will begin, and these statements will lose meaning, because nevertheless, a statement made within 5 minutes to the public, usually only one, has some greater meaning. But even worse are the changes from points 2, 4, 5, namely some kind of reduction in work or the Senate debate. We often say that the Senate is a Chamber of reflection, reflection and reflection. Well, you can have a quiet reflection, of course, but it's better in dialogue with the other person. We don't have to imitate the Sejm here. We can really spend more time, because we are not dealing with all the projects, but only with what comes out of the Sejm after the preliminary work, i.e. the laws. Which is why I wouldn't limit... Because these are not restrictions on senators when it comes to speaking time, but restrictions on external actors, external representatives, the Council of Ministers, as well as others who have the right to speak and to speak on a subject, as well as on those who present a position, for example. The Senate's on something. It sometimes takes more time than is given here, but it is the marshal who can interfere with it from the point of view, I would call it, utilitarian, he sees it takes more time. But it's a little inhospitable, because it doesn't usually apply to senators. We invite guests, they politely listen to what we have to say, and then by definition they limit their time. Of course, it can be extended, but it has to be a request and so on. Well, then we have to decide if we want our guests to come here to present their positions, entities, bodies that represent... Because we often resent that there is no one, a representative of the applicants or representatives of the government. Do we want them to come here and have full rights, so to speak, which we do not restrict, or do we want these guys to be in some sort of ordained manner as we command them? I think that we should adopt the first method, i.e. if a guy wants to perform or should perform in a regular way, he should have time, maybe not unlimited, because the marshal can also exceptionally correct such a talk, but it should be rather so that the guy has full freedom to express his thoughts, express himself, because he usually speaks once, exceptionally twice, because he may be a government representative so many times. It simply changes the character of the Senate, and these statements, and reduces the speaking time of outsiders. That's what the printing is about when it comes to change. Only that, as I said, changes to the Senate Rules should be a proper response to what the outside world brings, or to some problems that simply resulted from the practice of applying the Rules of Procedure. And I see such points, but unfortunately they are not in this project. Important points. Not much, some are very media-bearing. Point one: I will actually only talk about the historical ones that appeared during the term of the senator, the institution of public hearing. She's in the Senate, but she only deals with projects. It is not possible to organise a public hearing institution with regard to the laws coming from the Sejm with a view to assessing them. This may be better, because we have a short period of time to consider them, but many times it has been so that our 30 days were used so that at the end of this period constitutionally we were dealing with some law. Perhaps we should really consider a public hearing in the Senate when assessing laws, i.e. in the legislative procedure. That's the first line. That's not here. The second question is counsel, I'd call it constitutional. A team of advisers for constitutional control at the Senate Marshal has been appointed. Of course, Mr. Marshals can appoint any team for any case, but certain prerogatives in the state are held or powers belong to certain authorities. I don't know if it's good that the Senate is trying, I'm saying it's trying, because it doesn't have the powers to judge the constitutionality of the laws. Let the Constitutional Tribunal deal with this. Constant performance... There was a period, I'd call it, tension, now he's a little off, and there's no such thing anymore. [[Timer signal]] There was a time when everyone who went out on the stand talked about the constitutionality of the laws. [[Timer signal]] And the last two points, Mr. Marshal, I'll be brief on them, but they're important to me. Immunity institution. Indeed, in the Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator there is a preliminary procedure for examining the application for waiver of immunity by your marshal, the Marshal in the case of the Sejm, because it is probably resolved in parallel, i.e. applies both here and here. Yeah, except it can't lead to situations where this formal examination is blocking a motion to waive immunity because whether or not to waive immunity maybe... [[Cell phone signal]] I'm sorry. ...Iszba in gremio, whether it's the Sejm or the Senate. Then we have this case of Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, that he must take a stand, I say, he must take a position and formally evaluate the proposal, and that such powers do not give you to the Marshal, of course, any document, except this law. Naturally, it can be assessed, but in my opinion this assessment cannot lead to such a situation that the application for immunity, the process of examining this application will be completed by one person. And right now, we're in a situation like this. She's media-bearing. We know what's going on. And the last point is to depreciate the institutions of the Senate resolution. That's what I've been talking about from that lecturer over and over again. Something's happened to the Senate's resolutions lately. Not with everyone, just so we're clear, I've signed off on some of them. That they became an expression of such, I apologize for the expression, the treadmills, the tool to present the position not of the Senate, but of a certain part of it, the one that has two votes more. You can, for this is the Senate logo, flags, press conference, institution, but in my opinion not through the Senate resolution, because the Senate resolutions have a different meaning. I was talking about four problems that this revision of the Senate's Rules of Procedure doesn't involve them at all. Thank you. Sorry about the extension.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u183	There you go. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! We, in the context of the current regulations that operate in the Senate on the basis of these rules, have in practice difficulties in carrying out our duties. I would like to thank Mr Rybicki, who, in answer to the question, has shown us what it looks like in practice. Those we represent, and each of us represents a particular group of citizens, although of course the mandate is free... In practice, we represent everyone, but in a special way those who use our parliamentary work also in the parliamentary offices are asking us various questions. Most of these questions, or a large part of them, concern current issues, including legislative work. It is absolutely paradoxical that none of us can ask about such current affairs of any minister in the context of the draft legislative initiatives that appear. I often have some doubts about the information, the data, here rightly Mr. Marshal Borusewicz pointed out that we also need to think about the deadlines, but today this is not the subject of our work. And in practice, we're incarcerated. We cannot ask these questions before the Senate meeting because, in accordance with the provisions in force in this area, we cannot make senate statements outside of the meetings, and we cannot make a statement at the sitting on the point which is the subject of the Senate's deliberations. And these are the things that interest the people we represent. To a large extent, they do not ask us about historical matters, but about current matters, which are related to those issues which are the subject of Parliament's deliberations. That is why I believe that this change is an absolutely crucial change from the point of view of the Senate. I agree that there is always a fear of inflation, excessive use of this tool, but the public can judge such people. The latest example, which we all remember, is an example of Mejza, who in the Sejm reported the same statements concerning all municipalities either in his constituency or in the Lubuskie voivodeship, and in the case of MPs it is probably the same... No, there are two electoral districts in Lubuskie Voivodeship. Such attitudes, such wholesale submission or interpellation, or statements should of course be stigmatized, but if each of us present in this Chamber wants to prepare for the good performance of his duties, then he should not be deprived of such opportunities. Besides, this view is supported by doctrine. I have an opinion ahead of me, and in principle a commentary on the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, Lech Garlicki, who rightly pointed out in his commentary on the Constitution that the exercise of the mandate covers all the activities of both the Member and the Senator in Parliament relating to the participation of the government of the nation, i.e. the implementation of constitutional powers. After all, these senate statements enable us to exercise constitutional powers, better prepare for legislative work. Therefore, I have absolutely no doubt that this solution is a favourable, deliberate and justified solution. I would not compare the situation of the Sejm and the Senate at all, because please note what is in our proposal: the speech of the speaker may not last more than 30 minutes, but, attention, the marshal may extend this speech. This is written in exceptional liberal ways, and this goes against specific situations that may take place. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked and I have been asked because I have performed both the duties of Member, and now the Senator and the representative of the government administration, whether as Minister or as President of NIK. Today, we have a psychic situation, but not in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you know what the practice is in the Sejm. The President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, presenting in terms of public finances the most important document during the year in each democratic country, has 15 minutes For the presentation of an analysis of the implementation of the State budget and monetary policy assumptions for a given year, together with a resolution on granting or not granting discharge to the Government. 15 minutes to present a few hundred-page document This is the practice in the second Chamber. Fortunately, there is a gap between the Seym and the Senate in this matter. We take seriously the guests who come here if, of course, they want to exercise these rights. There are people who... For example, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Julia Przyłębska, has never honoured us with her presence, even though she is legally obliged to report on the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal. That is why I have no doubt that these changes are going in the right direction. Of course, each of us, looking at these changes, will probably notice other things. This discussion even shows this. That need to be analyzed. I, together with Senator Bosacki, have tabled one more amendment. This amendment states that the Senate Marshal allows a candidate for a post or candidate to properly present his candidacy or to provide explanations, as well as to answer the senators' questions. The rules of procedure shall apply mutatis mutandis as to the time of the submissions. It was a flawed thing... I was embarrassed myself when we had situations related to specific candidacy, and we really had to look for a way out of this by asking questions to the candidate... Because the formula of the regulations made it impossible to present this candidate. I hope that this amendment will reconcile everyone and we will consider that it is justified. The point is for this candidate to introduce himself. As for the amendments related to the provisions on the Radio and Television Act... yes, these records need to be adapted. As for the provisions relating to the internal structure of the Senate Chancellery... yes, this amendment harmonises the provisions of the Senate Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Should we continue to consider regulations in the future, observe in practice whether any changes are required? Yes, we should, because life, of course, still presents us with new circumstances, new facts. After all, we all want to do our best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u185	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I will repeat some of the points of my speech at the meeting of the Joint Committee on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. Let me give it to you here at the meeting. The first point is to be able to make senator statements between Senate meetings. My previous speakers Mr. Senator Czerwiński and Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski They have already discussed this issue. I have some kind of doubt that we're going this way. Well, there are some Members who, I don't know, for racing, in order to improve the statistics, make some cosmic numbers of parliamentary interpellations. Like I said at the committee meeting, at some point I decided to see what they were saying. I mean, how can there be so many of these parliamentary interpellations? And it turns out that often it's like if there's a problem... These interpelations differ only by the fact that the name of another city is pasted there. Yes? So there's a problem with health care, and the question is, what does it look like? in Jelenia Góra, in all powiats in a given district and sometimes in the whole of Poland That's what some people write. Then they do 300 interviews on the same subject at one time, only the city is different. I once spoke to Minister Adam Lipinski, who used to work at KPRM, and he said that people's taboos must reply to these parliamentary interpellations. Of course, if the interpellation is about something important, then yes, that's what it's for. The parliamentary interpellation and the senator's statement are so that we can ask the government, ask the ministers, and ask the various authorities of the state administration. So far, as I say, a certain senator's wisdom We've never done anything like this in the Senate... Mr. Marshal probably has more experience, he certainly has more experience, being a marshal for many years... I've been going through this since 2015 and I'm going to say that none of the senators have done it, but there was a kind of limiter here, as Senator Jan Maria Jackowski said, that if the senator wants it, he can deposit a maximum of 4 because it's 5 minutes but he blocks. Mr. Marshal Borowski said that we should trust the senators that we will not go this way, every few or a dozen Members who have these interpellations as if I don't know if I can use such an ugly word. They're producing. When you make a thousand of them, like Senator Czerwinski said, it misses the goal, you can't every day, including Christmas, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, after 2, 3 interpellations... What's that for? But the senators' statements themselves are absolutely. So here was my doubt that someone in the Senate wouldn't come up with such a thought to fill the government with such a number of interpellations. It was raised, even in Senator Kwiatkowski's speech, that there are important, important topics, sometimes you need to get information quickly and there is no need to wait until the next meeting, because time matters. It's an argument, I'm not saying it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. But let's face it, this response to a senator's statement or even a parliamentary interpellation is always secondary, because it's not like we make a senator's statement and in a week, we have an answer, we often wait and wait. So it's never like this answer is what we want, because there's a subject. It's solved in the Seym, although I may be wrong, but you're Marshal Borowski, who was a Member and a Marshal, so he probably knows that... There is a formula, if I am not mistaken, that the club may ask questions on current issues and ministers answer them at a given meeting. Then, in fact, what Senator Kwiatkowski was talking about, there is a possibility... There's a sensitive topic and there's an opportunity to get answers within, I don't know, two, three days. If there's a sitting and if the Marshal of the Sejm decides when there's a point, there's these answers. Then we actually ask a question about something, because something is happening, and we have an answer from the minister. However, this response to the parliamentary interpellation or to our senator's statement is still very late, because before it goes through bureaucracy, before this reply, even assuming that the ministry will be made in time, and it is not always so, and it is not because of any malice, but because of the mass that is... I don't think that's gonna solve the problem. We have some doubt... Maybe not us, let every senator speak for himself, but I've been discussing with some of my colleagues whether it's gonna be that the senators are gonna bury ministers now. There's probably gonna be some answers, just a question of whether... I have not yet met with a problem that is solved by interpellation or a senator's statement, that is rather the information that can be obtained. I hope that if these amendments are introduced, no one in the Senate will go on the way of some Members I'm saying some, because not all of them. And we're not gonna race, we're not gonna race, we're not gonna race, we're not gonna race, we're not gonna race, we're not gonna race, we're gonna race, we're gonna race, we're gonna race, we're gonna race, we're gonna race, we're gonna race, we're gonna race, we're gonna race, we're gonna race, we're gonna race, we're gonna race, we're gonna race, we're gonna race, we're not race, we're not race, we're not race, we're not race, we're not That's one thing. The second point in these proposed amendments, which I also raised at the committee meeting, is whether the limitation to 30 minutes to present a position on the bill is so important. I asked Mr Rybicki the question as to whether someone had examined this matter. 'Cause I don't recall the ministers misusing time and making a bill last more than 30 minutes. I have been since 2015. Although I didn't measure anyone's timer. I don't recall... Maybe one day, in case of some very controversial act, somebody introduced her. But I don't recall anything like that. So do we, by introducing such a limitation to 30 minutes, and yet with the assurance that in exceptional circumstances the marshal can extend this time, not introduce a solution for something that has never occurred in our practice as a problem? Of course, later answers to questions whether they are ministers or ombudsman of any kind, children's rights or civil rights, president of IPN, NIK, etc., etc. Well, these answers are often long, someone like that. For 10, 15 or 20 minutes, he answers a question. And here the restriction would actually speed things up, yes. I, too, believe that a concise answer is better than spreading the subject. But putting such limitations on ministers... I'd even say it's probably in our interest as senators that the minister, in presenting the bill, does it in depth, because then maybe you won't have to ask questions. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. But I don't know... Perhaps Mr President has already learned about how it was historically, i.e. Did one of the ministers ever cross those 30 minutes? However, since 2015, I do not recall such cases. At least there are so many laws that there might have been an accident. So we're solving a problem here, which I don't think is the problem. In other cases, the introduction of such a restriction is important. And one last thing. Looking at the watch, I hope that your marshal will immediately charge me that time for the second vote, because there's no one else to discuss, and I'll be two more minutes... The third issue I raised at the committee meeting At the same time, I noticed that Senator Kwiatkowski and Senator Bosacki seemed to have gotten past the subject I raised in committee. That's what I'm talking about. [[Timer signal]] ...I remembered the point that, in fact, when it comes to the ombudsman... We have repeatedly chosen an ombudsman here, i.e. There have been many attempts because there have been several candidates And those candidates for the Ombudsman had no opportunity to present themselves. And they needed it. I'm sorry about the wrong expression, but that's what I remembered. Somehow you can tell the ball what it's called, which means someone from the senators had to ask such an infantile question: can you introduce yourself and say something about your achievements? This was because the candidate we were supposed to pick wasn't provided by the regulations... And Mr. Marshal said, well, according to the regulations, I can't tell you to introduce yourself in 10 or 15 minutes. And let's remember that... And then the legislators told us it wasn't about... I'm the one who put it together with the candidates for the ombudsman, because even our colleagues... Well, it is about a colleague, Senator Staroń, who could not introduce herself, but in such a situation there were also other candidates, Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski and others, also present spokesperson. So there's always been this problem. And the legislators said that this generally applies to all our representatives. Ours, i.e. From the Senate. After all, we will elect a spokesperson and representatives to the National Council, if I am not mistaken, that is what the members of the Monetary Policy Council will be elected to do. It is a somewhat dysfunctional situation that these people whom we are to choose stand before us, we can question them in quotes, and they cannot say even a few words about themselves. And that's the kind of limitation I've been paying attention to. Mr. Lawyer said that he would prepare an amendment on this matter and I made this amendment. I know that some amendment in this matter was also announced by Senator Kwiatkowski. I will not insist that my amendment is better than the amendments of Senators Kwiatkowski and Bosacki, because I am not a lawyer, but I think my amendment, and the Senators have prepared the Legislative Bureau... Unless Senator Kwiatkowski prepared it himself as a lawyer, and perhaps so, I don't know. Well, I've been eating this solution here. But it's worth the correction... Because the senate's term ends in different institutions and we're gonna pick them. It's worth giving them a chance to introduce themselves by choosing these people. I don't know if these amendments are any different. I guess mine's just different because there's no time limit. And the senator said something about applying these time limits accordingly. I don't think our representatives want to introduce themselves for hours. Argument type: I as head of NIK That's what Mr. Kwiatkowski said. I only had 15 minutes in the Seym. But I think there's a different culture in the Senate. This is also apparent from another organization of the Senate and from another electoral order, but also from a different way of functioning these regulations. And I wouldn't impose such a time limit. If we're gonna choose someone for a very important function, it's worth giving them a chance to present their views. Right now we're gonna be choosing members of the Monetary Policy Council. It so happens that I, as a member of the budget committee, had the opportunity to listen to what they had to say, and that was very interesting on some points. But perhaps it will interest all other senators, not just those on the budget and finance committee. The views of one candidate are e.g. very interesting in various areas. So much for those remarks I made when I changed the Senate's Rules of Procedure... But I'd be... Because there was this discussion at the committee meeting, what a Member can do, and what a senator can do. It's a fitting... I think it was Mr. Marshal Borowski's voice, if I'm not mistaken. The point was not to unify it by force. I agree very much with this voice, because there is a certain separation of Chambers. And I hope that such an introduction of extra things that are not always good has nothing to do with the fact that there is a different majority in the Seym and another majority in the Senate. She can always be different and the situation can turn around someday. So much for the Senate Rules of Procedure. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I understand that this has been classified as a second performance.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u187	Yes, you have a second performance. Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u188	Mrs. Marshal, I very briefly, in the context of this amendment that Senator Frost was talking about... Maybe the Senator's amendment is better. That's for the committee to decide. I suspect these records are very close together. Because there is no other way to save the opportunity to speak to a candidate or a person who has the right position. Because that's the rule book we're interrogating. Senator Bosacki and I, when we prepared this amendment, were guided by the fact that today was not possible at all. So as we entered the time range of this response, which is suitable for other regulations, from our point of view we have made the solution identical to the records for other speeches, and at the same time we have given the possibility which has not yet been available. But most of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators will decide which one of these options is closer to you. I'm glad there's a choice. And I'm sure the problem was important, because it hasn't been regulated so far. We will only come to a decision which of these amendments we will want to support in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u189	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that Senator Aleksander Szwed made his speech in the discussion for the minutes, and the senators Marcin Bosacki, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Krzysztof Mróz submitted legislative proposals. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. A request was also made to set a deadline for committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear a voice of objection, I will find the Senate has accepted this request. I do not hear any objections, and therefore I set a deadline for the committees to prepare an additional report to carry out the third reading of the draft at this meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding companies. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Legislative Commission. It is included in print No 605 and the committee's report In print No 605 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Richard Bober, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Joint Legislative Committee, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions a report on the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding entities. I would like to remind the senators that we were really considering the initiative in September, she went through the whole legislative process, and it was also an initiative of the Senate. In the Sejm. And by proceeding with this bill, we were supposed to protect farmers from the unfair bailiff's conduct at that time. And there were really few examples. The important records that we actually filed there at the time, protecting and safeguarding the interests of farmers in the recovery procedure... We agreed that the individual components of the property to be recovered must have an opinion obtained by the bailiff from the agricultural chamber and, if the bailiff does not agree with the opinion of the agricultural chamber, it is possible to appoint its own valuer, expert, and this expert opinion is binding on the bailiff. And then it seemed that this collateral protects the banks from such conduct... that if the expert really shows in his opinion that the individual assets of the property are unable to secure the debt, then it will be possible to recover from the entire holding. During the process, both the National Bank of Poland and the Ministry of Justice agreed to such solutions. The bill came into force on January 10th, which was two days ago. It turned out that there is actually a problem, and this is a big problem, from the institutions lending agriculture, here I am referring specifically to cooperative banks, as well as commercial banks, 2 banks, which in this sector actually have a majority package aimed at the agricultural sector. The problem also concerns, as you can see in the draft law, KOWR, which restructures agricultural holdings, and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which also has a package to support agricultural activities. And the absence of this provision, which we are now recalling, that cooperative banks will be able to secure credit on perpetual books, i.e. on the farmer's assets, will lead to such a situation that they will not be able to carry out credit. For the moment... We had a meeting on this subject, together with Senator Kwiatkowski, Chairman of the Legislative Commission, representatives of the KNF, as well as representatives of cooperative banks, and this flaw the Financial Supervision Commission has identified as a flaw that could lead to the fact that cooperative banks Also leasing institutions that lend agriculture For loans already granted, they will have to create a reserve. Imagine that the combined reserve for these difficult loans is estimated by the KNF for cooperative banks at around 200 million and for commercial banks at 400 million PLN. The need to set up these reserves will have a particular impact on the functioning of small cooperative banks which are unable to create such a reserve. It will be difficult for them to establish consortia to meet these requirements of banking law. Consequently, agricultural loans are likely to be terminated and this may lead to emergency situations. To avoid these situations... Hence the request to introduce a provision which was in the order of the Minister of Justice, into the bill, to restore it. I want to reassure farmers in a special way. Restoring this provision will not simplify the recovery carried out by the bailiff, because the bailiff will still have to apply for the opinion of the agricultural chamber, and if he does not have such an opinion, he will appoint an expert. We restore the possibility of current credit. We are aware that the spring agricultural action is about to begin. I'm talking about the agricultural spring, the normal activity on farms. Swivel loans will often be necessary to carry out agricultural activities. Today I also held... Mr. Senator Czerwiński asked me to tell you what agricultural organizations have said in favour of the intention to amend this law. Today I held a meeting with the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, with the agricultural government, which actually confirmed what we are talking about at the moment. At today's meeting at 1 p.m., Prime Minister Kowalczyk also asked that the Senate take the initiative in the form in which I translate it to the State. This initiative will calm the financial sector. KNF is on the eve of the launch of control actions in cooperative banks. If there is such an initiative, then, I think, there will be another approach to the situation that will take place in this area. I would like to thank the Chairman of the Legislative Commission very warmly that we are in such an extraordinary procedure Sorry about that. And also to the marshal for introducing this item to the plenary sitting of the Senate today. This bill is really urgent and very necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u191	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. May I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski... Yes? Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Senator Bierecki.]] Thank you very much... [[Voice from the room: But there's a call.]] Oh, excuse me. Senator Bierecki. Who are you asking the question to? Mr. Senator Bober or Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u192	I'll ask Senator Bober a question, if you don't mind. I have no comments on the extent of the recovery. I know it's an unnecessary kick that came out of the Senate, and now it's being fixed. Good. But my interest is in changing the position of the KOWR in the perpetual book with collateral for the guarantee. The bank that issues the loan receives this guarantee. Therefore, it does not create reserves. It's an excellent security. However, when using this guarantee, KOWR should take precedence over the fulfilment of the assets, in the regression of the assets of the farmer. If KOWR is not in the first position, then the first position will be the bank that will benefit from the possibility of recovery, and then will come for what he has not downloaded from the farmer, to KOWR, which will be in such a situation that there will be no more money to be recovered from. Have you considered this scenario? Because I think that this relationship, which is now, makes the bank really have to agree with the guarantor these debts, the size of the claim, because the bank is after all claiming credit, interest, penalty interest, various fees. Sometimes these costs are multiplied by more than the value of the loan. This position of KOWR in the first place in the Eternal Paper provides a certain security, but also a guarantee for farmers just before banks do not take advantage of their advantage in this respect, so that this claim is rational, limited to the amount of the guarantee. Perhaps it is worthwhile to rethink this element in the course of further work. I would not want to see a situation in which KOWR will stop providing these guarantees, because if it is not able to protect itself on the assets of the borrower, it will not give that guarantee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u193	Thank you for that question, Senator. This was the subject of the meeting which took place on 5 January in the Senate. In the presence of the president of the restructuring agency, as well as the Director-General of KOWR, we discussed this issue. It was attended by three cooperative banks, but also by two of the largest cooperative banks. This is to be agreed, because it needs to be agreed and clarified at the level of cooperative banks, as well as the cash register, which also has its share of lending to the agricultural sector in order to harmonise it. This part of the restructuring doesn't really work right now. During all the years in which KOWR had the authority to take over the debtor's liabilities and in the context of restructuring the distribution of that debt... In fact, it's four farms, two cases are under way. This element doesn't work because of it. However, a greater problem will be faced by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which today has 1 billion 500 million in the package for lending aid in the agricultural sector, for farmers, in order to secure this loan and also securing, because the agency also has the possibility of guaranteeing loans, as well as the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which, by this guarantee, of course at an appropriate price, is able to secure the lenders of agriculture.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u194	Thank you very much. You're still Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u195	Mrs. Marshal, I have a question for the senator. Senator Bierecki asked a very important question indeed. I thank Senator Bober, because now we're a little bit in a situation of urgency. This is an issue that the senator was talking about, and it is extremely important, but we are not able to resolve it in such a short time in a manner that is competent to resolve it. I think Senator Bober is already so committed to this issue that he will. I assume I'm gonna ask you a rhetorical question. He's been monitoring it. If it's settled in this area, we probably won't rule out another... [[Initiatives.]] ...newizations in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u196	Yes, those are the assurances that there will be a meeting and indeed these arrangements, so that there will be no such conflicts.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u197	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not hide that I had certain doubts about both provisions, especially this article. Two, because this is the new legal matter. On the occasion of repairing the error in the article. 1, i.e. of which Article. 1, a new matter was introduced, made such an inlay on the side. That's why I have a simple question: how has it been so far? This article worked, there were no complaints, at least we didn't get any complaints. I'm talking specifically about art. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 which is repealed in Article. Two of our projects. And everything was fine. And all of a sudden, we're putting in a bill like this, perhaps necessary, related to this deficiency, let's call it that, even though I'm going to ask you about the minister's deficiency, because luckily he's in the courtroom... And, as I say, it's new matter, so it's not us or the Sejm who owes it... [[Timer signal]] ...that this article is in its legal state. So far, the banks have worked and managed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u199	So far, it has operated on the basis of the Minister of Justice's regulation, and there really is this element that we are transferring in this bill... [[Sorry, we'll talk about two different things. I'm talking about art. 2 and waive the priority of KOWR in the entry into the mortgage. This is completely different. Let's keep these two things out of the way.]] But this is the issue that Senator Bierecki was talking about, that she is indeed a threat. And how did it work? It was effective and it worked in this area. As far as restructuring is concerned, it did not function and does not function, as I have already said, Senator. I think that during the work on this bill, both in the Sejm at the first reading as well as in the subcommittee, there were discussions, there is no doubt, but everyone then agreed that those records which were, as it seemed, were also not in conflict with banking law. That's all I can answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u200	Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Would a government representative like to take the floor on the bill presented? Minister Richard Bartosik is here, welcome. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Bartosik: Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u201	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Law of 2 December on the amendment of the Law. The Code of Civil Procedure, which entered into force on 10 January this year, was adopted following the inclusion of the requests made in the individual petition addressed to the Senate. The law laid down regulates issues relating to the special protection of the farmer holding the holding in the event of the execution of the property belonging to him. Previously, this issue was standardized by the Regulation of the Minister of Justice of 5 July 2017 on the identification of items belonging to the farmer holding the holding which are not subject to enforcement. High Izbo, as a general rule, the solutions contained in the above mentioned above. The regulation of the Minister of Justice is reflected in the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, although with one quite important exception, over which we bend in your proposed solution. The legislator did not take into account the regulation contained in §5 of the Regulation. That provision provided that the Regulation would not apply if all the properties of the debtor's holding were to be sent simultaneously to the holding. The omission of that provision has a significant impact on the farmer's fundraising process, since the condition for the granting of credit by financial institutions is to provide adequate collateral in the event that the debtor fails to comply with the obligation entered into. In turn, the failure to satisfy the claim on the assets belonging to the farmer, and consequently the possibility of establishing a security, de facto, may have the effect of regulating the code in this form. It may lead to farmers not being able to obtain financing for their agricultural activities. That, in general, is the essence of the problem. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no government position on this matter right now. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development does not comment on the solutions proposed by the High Senate. Today I had a meeting with representatives of the banking sector, representatives of agricultural union organisations, agricultural chambers. And here the position is one-sounding, in favour of this solution, so that the provision which was in the existing regulation should be introduced. As I said earlier, this gives farmers the opportunity to lend their current business, but also to invest in their farms in the longer term. This is of great importance for current activities, but also for the acquisition of external resources, including EU funds. And this oversight would have huge consequences in terms of agricultural activity. In my opinion, the attention of Senator Bierecki should be paid, who rightly pointed out here that we are putting KOWR in perhaps, in theory, a difficult situation today. Therefore, this good consideration should be considered in further work. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Agriculture does not comment on this solution. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u202	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? There you go. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u203	Minister, you have de facto said that, but I will ask you to clarify this statement. When we originally adopted this draft legislative initiative, there were no votes against. Above the political divisions we wanted to come out, as it turned out, even further than probably the farmers' environment would expect, with solutions in the context of safeguarding agricultural interests. Practical consequences, the ones that... what we would like to know as senators... Because the position of the banking environment or leasing companies is known to us. But you have said a very important question for us, which many senators will probably take into account at the time of the vote. You said that today you had a meeting and had conversations with representatives of agricultural organizations. Would it be a chance if, of course, it wasn't a secret to find out what kind of organizations it was? I'm just asking so we don't have any doubts... [[Timer signal]] ...that these solutions, which we now want to adopt, meet not only the banking environment but, above all, the agricultural environment that is directly concerned.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u204	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The meeting organized today was actually for this purpose so that we could consult both sides. As the senator said, the position of the banking sector was obvious and well-known. On the part of agricultural organisations, you were the President of the National Agricultural Chamber, who clearly presented his position, in order to return to the solutions that existed so far, that is, in the Regulation of the Minister of Justice. There were representatives of trade unions, there were no representatives of all organizations. We have in the Ministry of Agriculture a very broad forum of these organizations, there are over 100 organizations there. The ones that were represented... There was also a representative of the trade union federation. The main stakeholders in this discussion, of course, were farmers, commodity farmers producing on the market. They, arguing their position, which is known and clear to all, said that they could not involve current production of turnover credits, which are extremely necessary e.g. for the purchase of feed in the production of poultry, as well as loans that support the collection of funds from various programmes carried out by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. The banking sector, in turn, argued that the creation of financial reserves required banking supervision. So the problems are both on the one hand and on the other. We also have positions of individual agricultural chambers from individual voivodships. As far as I'm concerned, if I remember correctly, there's probably one position of the House that insists on the solutions that came in the tenth. That's something to say here, too. I think it's the Mazowiecka Chamber, but I'm not... [[Voice from the room: Warmińsko-Mazurska.]] Warmia and Mazury, I'm sorry. The senator fixed me up here, thank you very much. There is one such position, but most agricultural organisations are in favour of returning to the solutions that functioned under the Regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u206	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u207	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister. In the work on this law, on these 2 substantive articles, I did not see any representative of farmers in the Chamber or see any opinion on the Internet. That's why you have a lot of responsibility. You are here as a peacekeeper, but you must present the other side's position. We already have one problem. I do not believe that farmers have spoken about the article. 2, knowing what his far-reaching consequences could be, about which Senator Bierecki spoke. I'm going back to art. 1, i.e. to what has not been transferred, it is rather §5 from the Regulation to the content of the Act. From what's been reported, maybe it's different. It follows that this §5 was eliminated from the text of the Law at the Seym level during the work of the Sejm. [[Timer signal]] I don't know if it was a mistake, or if it was intentional. [[No, no. On our level...]] Please? [[On our level, the Senate.]] Was it a mistake, then, or was it intentional? I'm asking because I can't answer why we're bringing it back. I understand that right now, that all you have to do is send the executions to all the properties and the bill will have its teeth broken. Yes or no? Security records won't work. The four-page list of protective provisions will not work, because there is a small note that if executions are directed to all property belonging to the holding, the provisions of the previous articles do not apply. I just want to get a clear answer as to whether it happened by accident, whether it was intentional or intentional. Again, I'm talking about art. 1. Because about the art. Two, we already know there's gonna be a problem with that.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u208	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u209	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! These records were written here in the Senate, and were accepted by the Sejm. It's hard to tell if it was a coincidence or a deliberate act. Even if it was a deliberate action, I think that the intentions were right by looking at these solutions. Well, we want to secure the farmers as much as possible. We remember all kinds of difficult situations. Some farmer had trouble paying off his debt, and the bailiff was entering his farm, which is his workshop, completely preventing him from restructuring or repaying that debt. These are the intentions and arguments behind these solutions. However, we must remember that there is financial supervision, that there is banking law. Well, if there's no collateral that the bank requires, then these loans are simply not granted. At today's meeting, the comments of the farmers' representatives were in line with the solutions proposed here. We have to approach the case practically. Producers, especially poultry, are calling for these solutions to be introduced as soon as possible to restore it to its former form, because they cannot borrow at the moment. Banks do not want to give them turnover credits due to the lack of these collaterals and they cannot produce. We know how this works. Loans are drawn for feed, for means of production, and after the final sale of these products the credit is paid back. And that's how most high-quality farms produce goods for the market. To date, this Regulation has allowed for this. To my best knowledge, it worked well, there were no complaints from agricultural organizations. In addition, we are about to begin the adoption of this project. There will still be an opportunity to discuss and discuss with agricultural organisations. I have already set up another meeting between the banking sector and the other party, i.e. representatives of agricultural organisations. In addition to this problem, we will also talk about other problems related to the lending of agriculture. I would also like those issues that Senator Bierecki spoke about to be raised at this meeting. I would also like the representatives of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the Director-General of the National Agricultural Support Centre to take part in this meeting. So this dialogue will take place. I can still commit myself here to the fact that we will inform in writing all the organisations that are focused on this ministerial agricultural forum, about the ongoing work on this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u210	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Bierecki, one more time. There you go. [[I have to do something to make you look at me more often.]] [[All you have to do is talk like I do, and your marshal will always hear you.]] [[Yes?]] Sorry, Mr. Senator Mammoths, I don't remember silenced you for once. You're welcome. I'm looking at you. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u211	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I even took my mask off. I know this project is urgent because of the closure of the year, the fixing of reserves in cooperative banks, etc., I understand that. However, I think that at the moment, when we make this change, we recall these other risks, we bring back to life those other risks that were just the reason for the deletion of this rule here in the Senate. Did we ask the question: why was it not then included in this bill? Why was this provision deleted, even though we were aware that he was in the Minister of Justice's regulation? Why wasn't it written? What's right, what's right? And then we protected it by deleting the rule that will now be restored? That's a question you have to ask. This is the first case. Secondly, I think that the issue of bank reserves and the question of how to approach agricultural lending could be resolved through the active involvement of the Financial Stability Committee, not only of the KNF, but also of the entire Financial Stability Committee, so that credit for agricultural activities is particularly treated and not subject to the same procedures for creating reserves, burdening the performance of banks, mainly cooperative banks, which are involved in this, as in the case of lending other economic activities. [[Timer signal]] Here is a great task for creating other scales. At the moment, KNF puts everything in one shill, does not distinguish between loans to agricultural holdings and loans to other economic activities. In the interest of the Polish state, it is in the interest of farmers to start distinguishing. This is not even at the statutory level, it is at the level of recommendations issued by KNF for banks. It wasn't really a question, it was a statement. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Exactly, the question.]] So I'm going to end with the question: what do you think, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u212	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I share this view, but the senator motivated me to have the KNF representatives present at the next meeting I was talking about, because then we will have a full picture of the situation and this discussion will be even more substantive. It is worth considering and discussing this problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u214	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I'm sorry, we're dealing with a bill that was dropped at the last minute, very quickly and very quickly. I will read to you the reasons for this is what you asked Senator Bierecki to justify to the bill, which we were the authors of, but she entered the Sejm, which is already from the sejm printing, which explains why this happy or unfortunate §5 of the regulation was not included in the text of the draft, which we now have to deal with in the article. 1. That's right. In addition, the proposed law does not include the equivalent of §5 of the Regulation of 5 July 2017. I remind you, that is, the end of the year 2020, i.e. it has been 3 years since the Senate's assessment of... [[Timer signal]] ...a standard derived from this provision may in practice deprive any importance of protection resulting from other provisions setting limits on execution against a farmer holding a holding. Paragraph 5 provides that the rules governing exemptions from enforcement shall not apply in the event of simultaneous referral of executions to all property belonging to the holding of the debtor's holding. So the entity that decides how the execution will be directed, whether it's all the real estate or not, decides whether or not it's possible to get something from the debtor. And this is a danger, Minister. That's where it was...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u216	It was, Mr. Senator... [[But this is the matter of this project now.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[We're back to the way things were.]] Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u217	In fact, I agree with this view, the good intentions followed all those who wanted to protect farmers, and here full agreement. But banking regulations, economic practice are what causes the situation that we have or would have in a moment: there is no possibility for farmers to obtain loans. And here, unfortunately, there is no perfect solution, Senator. [[I see.]] I'm in an extremely difficult situation right now. But for agriculture to develop so that farms can function properly, as has been the case so far, under the existing regulation, we are determined not to comment on this solution. I have several letters from individual agricultural chambers and agricultural organisations, which, in the light of the situation that has arisen, request that such a solution be put into effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u218	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Bartosik: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. And I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators Alexander Swed and Benjamin Godyla made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we will now proceed with the examination of point 10, i.e. the appointment of members of the Monetary Policy Council, and then we will consider paragraph 9. Before moving to point 10, i.e. the appointment of members of the Monetary Policy Council, I manage a five-minute technical break. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 28 to 16 minutes 36]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the appointment of members of the Monetary Policy Council. High Izbo, on 25 January 2022, the term of office of 2 members of the Monetary Policy Council appointed by the Senate shall expire. According to the Constitution and the Act on the National Bank of Poland, the Senate appoints members of the board from among financial specialists for 6 years. I would like to inform you that the following candidates have been submitted: Mr Ludwik Kotecki and Mr Przemysław Litwiniuk. Welcome to the Senate meeting. The CVs of the candidates are included in print No 603. He addressed proposals concerning the proposed candidates of the Senate Marshals to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. The committee's report is contained in print No 603 O. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Paweł Arndt, to speak and to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u219	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As your Marshal said, January 25 ends with a term of 2 out of 3 elected by the Senate members of the Monetary Policy Council. And so, by then, we should appoint two new members to replace them. The Marshal referred the appointment of candidates to the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the evaluation of candidates. I committee at its meeting on 4 January, in accordance with Article. Article 94 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, held hearings of candidates to the Monetary Policy Council. The Commission found that all candidates had been properly submitted and had given a positive opinion. And those candidates, as your marshal said, are Mr Ludwik Kotecki and Mr Przemysław Litwiniuk. Now let me introduce both candidates briefly. Gentlemen, if my information is insufficient for you, it will always be possible to deepen this information with you. Maybe in alphabetical order: Mr. Louis Kotecki. Mr Ludwik Kotecki conducted economic studies at the Warsaw School of Economics and then continued to study macroeconomic issues in doctoral studies at the College of Economic Analysis at the Warsaw School of Economics. He worked in the Ministry of Finance and after 4 years in the position of monetary and banking policy in the Department of Financial Policy and Analysis in the Ministry of Finance became deputy director of this department, responsible for coordination of macroeconomic analyses and forecasts. Mr Ludwik Kotecki and the Ministry of Finance have actually linked most of his professional career. Between 2008 and 2015, he served as Deputy Minister of Finance, Representative of the Government for the Euros and Chief Economist of the Ministry of Finance and member of the Financial Supervision Commission and Chairman of the Banking Board of the Guarantee Fund. Between 2015 and 2016, as alternate executive director, he represented in the International Monetary Fund Poland, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Serbia, Switzerland, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan, the Executive Council of the International Monetary Fund. Between 2017 and 2021 he served as the chief economist of Caritas Poland. He was also a macroeconomic advisor for the European Financial Congress and the Centre for Strategic Thoughts. He is the director of the Institute of Responsible Finances, a member of the Polish Economists' Society, and also serves as an advisor to the Marshal of the Senate for Economic Affairs. He is not and was not a member of any political party. Mr Ludwik Kotecki has participated in many national and foreign conferences. Maybe I'll skip the subject. He is the author of many articles on macroeconomics and economic policy, fiscal policy and green finance. He was also a consultant to the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Now Mr. Przemysław Litwiniuk. Mr Przemysław Litwiniuk graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University of Warsaw. He obtained a master's degree and then a doctorate in law. During his doctoral studies in the Cathedral of Constitutional Law, he conducted research on the issue of financial independence of local government units. He is a legal counsel member of the District Chamber of Legal Counsels in Lublin. Since 2011 he has been employed at the General School of Rural Farms in Warsaw, initially at the Faculty of Economic Sciences, currently at the Institute of Economics and Finance in the Department of Finance as an academic teacher. He is head of postgraduate studies: administration and public finances, tax law, staff and wages. He conducts scientific and research activities in disciplines: legal sciences and economics and finance. He is the author or co-author of 10 scientific monographs in the field of economic sciences and legal sciences, as well as more than 50 published in Poland and abroad scientific articles. He received his PhD in social sciences in 2019 at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań. The hearing examined the legal nature of the European Union's common agricultural policy's financial instruments. He did foreign scientific internships in Rome, as well as at the University of Spain. He is a winner of national competitions for the best scientific work. Mr Przemysław Litviniuk is also a self-government officer. Since 2002 he has been the chairman of the District Council in Bielsko-Biała, then the governor of the voivodship... [[Voice from the room: in Biała Podlaskia.]] In White Podlaskie, I'm so sorry. In White Podlaskie, indeed. ... Alderman of Lublin Voivodeship. Between 2014 and 2018 he was the president of the Sejm of voivodship. He was full in those years. It also has the role of an expert, an advisor and led the implementation of EU programmes for agriculture and rural areas in the general government agendas and the development policy monitoring committees. In 2019 he was appointed to act as an expert in the Committee on Natural Resources of the European Committee of the Regions in Brussels. So much for candidates. Once again, on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I ask the High House to appoint Mr Louis Kotecki and Mr Przemysław Litwiniuk to the Monetary Policy Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u220	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Bierecki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u221	Mr. Senator, would you like to share with a group of senators here information on the number of votes, the outcome of the vote on the candidates during the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u222	Yes. The vote wasn't identical. In the case of Mr Louis Kotecki, 5 senators voted in favour, 2 were against and 2 abstained. Mr Przemysław Litviniuk received 7 votes in favour, 1 Senator abstained, 1 against.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u223	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Thank you. Thank you, Senator. Before adopting a resolution on the appointment of members of the Monetary Policy Council, the Senate may call on candidates to provide explanations and answer the senators' questions. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr. Louis Kotecki a question? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Thank you very much. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr. Przemysław Litvinuk a question? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Władysław Komarnicki and Ryszard Świlski made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I inform the senators that the vote on this issue will be held in the voting block. Thank you very much, gentlemen, for your appearance. I'm sorry no one wanted to hear from you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed with the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: the establishment of an Extraordinary Commission for the clarification of cases... [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no Senator Rapporteur.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: It'll be a minute.]] In that case, I'm managing a five-minute break to regroup. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 47 to 16 minutes 49]] I'll extend the maintenance period until 5 p.m. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 49 to 17 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u224	Please take your seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask you to take your seats and transfer your senators' conversations to the cockroaches. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: the establishment of an Extraordinary Commission to clarify cases of illegal surveillance, their impact on the electoral process in the Republic of Poland and the reform of special services. The proposal of the Senate Marshal on this matter is contained in print No 606. I would also like to inform you that the draft resolution on the appointment of this committee has been welcomed by the Seniors' Convention. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask Senator Marcin Bosacki to take the floor and present a draft resolution on behalf of the Senate Marshal on the appointment of an Extraordinary Commission to clarify cases of illegal surveillance, their impact on the electoral process in the Republic of Poland and the reform of special services. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Once again, I ask the senators to stop talking loudly in the courtroom. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Senator Marcin Bosacki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! We have submitted a request for an emergency commission to investigate the surveillance of Poles by Pegasus system due to the deepest concern for the state of our democracy and the future of the Polish state. These words are not pure rhetoric or exaggeration. We are presenting to the High Senate a project according to which the Senate would set up an Extraordinary Commission to clarify cases of illegal surveillance, their impact on the electoral process in the Republic of Poland and the reform of special services in the composition of 7 submitted senators. We have requested that there be nine members of this committee, unfortunately, the PiS club did not report two senators that it could report, as decided by the convention. The committee would include: me, i.e. Marcin Bosacki, Senator Jacek Bury, Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Senator Michał Kaminski, Senator Magdalena Kochan, Senator Sławomir Rybicki and Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. §2 of this resolution, which we submit to the High Senate, says that the tasks of the committee are: to clarify the identified cases of illegal surveillance using inter alia. spy software and violations of law during the application of special operational controls by special services; assessment of the impact of the detected cases of illegal surveillance on the electoral process in the Republic of Poland; development, contribution and participation in the examination by the Senate of a legislative initiative reforming the activities of special services on the basis of inter alia. the assumptions presented on 23 September 2019 by the Ombudsman and the spokesperson of the expert group. Your Senate, a country where special services have an impact on the electoral outcome, ceases to be a democratic state, ceases to belong to citizens. It needs to be clarified whether this is what happened in Poland. Yes, you do. Therefore, the vote on the appointment of the Senate Emergency Committee to clarify this matter will be one of the most important votes of the Senate in this term of office. We, the applicant, are convinced of that. Why? The Pegasus case might explain Maybe just a committee called by the Senate. The PiS government is doing everything it can to hide the truth. He pretends he doesn't know anything. For weeks, investigations were refused at the D.A.'s office. The truth is a burden to this authority. At the same time, the future of our country depends on this truth. Let me explain why we consider this matter so fundamental. Democracy is not a political system, it is a set of common principles. So said Woodrow Wilson, the great president of the United States, the great promoter of democracy and the great promoter of Polish affairs more than 100 years ago. If you're breaking the rules You destroy democracy, you undermine the fundamentals of the state. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland states that the Republic of Poland is a democratic legal state. And the fundamental principle of democracy is the free elections with the constitutional principle of equality of take-off in those elections of entities wishing to apply for offices. However, there is much evidence that one of the actors in the political scene of the then ruling and ruling now, taking part in the 2019 elections, used state authorities and methods of illegal surveillance to secure their winnings. It's not just extremely dishonest. This is taking the right of citizens to decide on the shape of a state. For the first time in modern democracy, a similar issue was observed in 1972 in the United States. This case is known as the Watergate scandal. Only that these 2 scandals, the American Watergate and Pegasus scandals in Poland, cannot be compared. Why? Pegasus is a much more serious surveillance tool. He's a cyber weapon. This is much more than the fact that 50 years ago in the United States, a wiretap was placed at the opposition party's headquarters. Pegasus is a daily spy who in real time tells us where someone is going, what he talks to his family about, what his health is, what he does in the bathroom, in the bedroom, in the doctor's, in the church. This is the Big Brother who can be used for bad things by bad people. Once again, I stress: this is not an operational control tool used regularly by the service, it is a cybernetic, intelligence weapon built by the Israeli State for fighting which the Israeli State is fighting in its dangerous region. These are facts, Dear Senator. Of course, it's mostly about fighting terrorists. Pegasus can change the content of your phone in real time, inform about any communicators, eavesdrop, transmit the image, turn on the camera, etc. And this Big Brother was used to spy on Senator Krzysztof Brejza, our colleague, for six months during the election campaign in 2019. The question of the integrity of those elections is inevitably raised. And that is why, in addition to explaining the issue, it will be up to the committee to assess the impact of this illegal surveillance on the electoral process during those elections. But I want to make it clear that this case goes beyond politics. We're all clear now. That's the facts. That they were being spied on by a cyber weapon known as "Pegasus" also as patron Roman Giertych and prosecutor Ewa Wrzosek, breaking attorney-client privilege in the case of the former. In this way, Pegasus' use directly hits citizens, people who talk to a lawyer or prosecutor and have the right to keep the conversation secret. Another absolutely fundamental issue is what happened to this data. Is the use of Pegasus against its own citizens in Poland... Once again, the NSO company, which is once again the facts. It is linked to the Israeli State, and to the Ministry of Defence of Israel... And it is clear that, by communicating information to both Israel and others, she passed it on to spy on terrorists or dangerous opponents of these countries. Here, however, we have dealt with spying on our own citizens and the fact that these data about Polish citizens are transferred immediately to NSO servers in Israel. This is really the question of whether such activities, if they were aware of the word "if" does not fulfil the criteria of the article. 130 criminal code for cooperation and communication to foreign intelligence. In this case, it is extremely important that in Poland, what we also know and what has already been granted, this tooling, this cybernetic weapon had a service, which by definition is to deal with the elite of its country and investigate corruption in this elite, political, official and other, i.e. Central Anti-corruption Office, by some called the political police of the PiS. If the Pegasus software was used by CBA, what did the other Polish services know about the software? In particular, the ABW, which according to law is required to certify any such operational control tools. Did the Homeland Security know about this? Did the Homeland Security approve of that? And did it accept the fact that this real-time data is being transmitted to servers in Israel? High Izbo, the question, of course, is whether the Senate's extraordinary committee with limited competences Because we all know that only the Sejm has the power to appoint a committee of inquiry. Is he going to explain the matter? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'll turn the question around. Well, it is very likely that no one else will try to explain the matter, and therefore we should at least try. The PiS state won't do it, because the government has chosen the method from the beginning: if they hold your hand, tell them it's not your hand. Instead of taking this case seriously, PiS politicians were talking crap about game consoles or winged horses, for example. Minister and Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro. This, of course, changed last week when the president of the governing party Jarosław Kaczyński admitted, contrary to dozens of previous declarations by PiS politicians, that Pegasus in Poland is and was used. But I'm going back to the Attorney General. Let us be clear: he, as the overseer of the Justice Fund, from which Pegasus' purchase was financed, as determined by the Supreme Audit Chamber, is keenly interested in this matter because he protects himself. That's why we can't have any confidence that his subordinates, the prosecutors, will explain this matter. This is proved by the immediate refusal to initiate proceedings in the case of prosecutor Wrzosek, eavesdropped and under surveillance of Pegasus. As we all know, the model of the state for Jarosław Kaczyński is the state built for several years by Viktor Orbán in Hungary, and the dream of making it from Warsaw Budapest. Fortunately, it is a dream that has not yet come true and will not come true. Six months ago, it was revealed that Pegasus was also being spied on by Hungarian citizens who were considered hostile to the government, especially opposition journalists. Has anything been done about this? No, the case was swept under the rug because Orbán is already in control of Kaczyński, who does not control the Senate and the Supreme Auditorium. All authorities of the Hungarian State. For every corrupt authority prefers to sweep such things under the carpet rather than to repair what is bad. High Senate, I remind you, Senator Breyza's phone has been hacked 33 times. Repeat: 33 times. PiS politicians pretend or try to deceive public opinion that it was about some kind of investigation in connection with alleged crime, but the same number of Pegasus attacks and their time for six months during the election campaign contradicts it. If this was really meant to serve a course of action, I ask: why the messages stolen from Pegasus from this phone were processed and used in government media, especially on TVP, were used to attack the greatest opposition force, whose chief of staff was Senator Krzysztof Brejza then? PiS politicians in recent days, after Kaczyński's confession that Pegasus was being used, reached for another rhetorical weapon, i.e. they pretended that everything was legal: yes, we were eavesdropping, but everything was legal. If so, it is probably no problem to prove this to the parliament which is governed by law before the Senate's extraordinary committee, which I believe will set up such a committee today. The Commission should also develop legal mechanisms to prevent such abuse in the future. As powerful weapons as Pegasus, used by the uncontrolled special forces, are attacked not only by political opponents, independent activists or, as in Hungary, journalists, but also by ordinary citizens. Power won't stop in surveillance unless the free citizens stop it. That kind of power won't stop. New rules must be introduced to prevent further abuses. And that's what this committee would take care of. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, I would like to address the Senators and Senators of Law and Justice. In the vote on putting this item on the agenda, all of you, except one senator, whom I bow to, voted against. And yet we know that you yourselves unofficially speak of it, you fear that you may have been eavesdropped. [[Voice from the room: Good method...]] You know that those who have said for weeks that there was no Pegasus in Poland are ridiculed at the moment. I address you, PiS politicians. [[Voice from the room: Give it up for the president!]] Doesn't Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz really want to set up this committee, who said a few weeks ago: The Pegasus system is not equipped with Polish services. Isn't it used to track anyone in our country? Well, I do not assume that our colleague, Senator Skurkiewicz, deliberately lied. I assume someone deliberately misled him. And this committee is going to explain who lied to Poles and Poles about Pegasus' total surveillance for years. [[Timer signal]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u226	Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Senator. Your attention please, senators. The Senate's Rules of Procedure do not provide for a discussion on the appointment of an emergency committee, but merely provides for the directing of questions... [[The voice from the room: Well, then we'll ask.]] ...to the Senator of the rapporteur. I would therefore like to inform your senators that the questioning of questions is covered by the same regime as usual, so each of your senators has one minute to ask the question. I would ask you to sign up for senators who would like to ask the Senator rapporteur a question. I've already seen some reports, sir. I'm sure the senator wrote them down. Your first question is Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u227	Mr President, what do we know about this? Since 2018, since the publication of the NIK audit report, we know that Pegasus has been purchased from funds transferred by the Ministry of Justice to the Central Anti-corruption Office. Since the interview, which appeared this week, no one in Poland denies that Pegasus system is. Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński said directly... [[Voice from the room: Question!]] ...that it would be bad if the Polish forces didn't have this tool. What don't we know? Do we still not know who made the decisions about illegal wiretapping? What mode was this done in? Against who? And will the committee want to find answers to these questions?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u228	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u229	Mr. Senator, yes, to the questions about who attacked who Pegasus, to what extent and why... Once again, it's not a wiretap, it's a lot more. This is something that is used by Israeli services to psychologically fight against Israel's enemies, manipulate text messages, videos, audio, etc. It's much more serious than that. But we will also want to explain, as I have already mentioned, whether the application of this system seems to indicate a great deal, contrary to the licence granted to the Polish State with the consent of the State of Israel and which has been withdrawn in recent months, because the Polish State has used this program to its own citizens and not its enemies, e.g. terrorists It is also not illegal. It is also about how to refer to the fact that foreign services probably have confidential data about all Polish citizens who were the subject of this Pegasus attack. My conviction is that these people are much more than 3, but so far we know about three cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u230	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have this question: will the committee be involved in ordering legal opinions on whether the application of this program, which exceeds the usual technique of telephone eavesdropping, is compatible with the Polish system in force on the date when these events took place? And my second question is, do you share my view that this case is serious, so such laughter-chichs and cries are absolutely inappropriate here? In my opinion, the credibility of the Polish state and the credibility of the governing camp depend on the explanation of this matter. In my deep conviction, he should take these reports seriously, substantively, transparently and should be able to explain these issues reliably, and not present very different versions of events in this matter... [[Timer signal]] ...and evaluate this... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...what's happened over the last three weeks. It was only Jarosław Kaczyński who had to admit that this program was. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u232	Mr. Senator, we're absolutely going to investigate. legal aspects, both aspects of the legality of Poland's purchase of this system, which is very strange, criticized for two presidents by the Supreme Audit Chamber As well as, of course, an aspect of the legality or likelihood of illegal use. That's one thing. Secondly, I share the senator's assessment that the laughter-chichs of this case are absolutely inappropriate. Dear Member States, a country where special services have an influence on the outcome of elections, is no longer a democracy, even if your formation continues to rule. And this really is a fundamental question about the nature of the Polish state: do citizens rule it, or do they rule it, through strange machinations and the use of cybernetic weapons, special services?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u233	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask the senator's question, Marshal Mark Bang.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, don't you think that the appointment in the Senate of a committee whose scope is entirely beyond the powers of the Senate, the political and legal capacity of the Senate, is really another expression of the depreciation of the Senate in this term of office? The Senate doesn't have any powers of inquiry. The Senate has very limited powers of government control. The Senate doesn't have a task force committee. Do you not think that the appointment of this committee is really turning the Senate into an institution that deals with political fiction rather than real political problems? And finally, do you not think that this committee is really called from the very beginning to prove its thesis in advance? [[Timer signal]] Your speech shows this very clearly. You have already described this situation, you have already proven all the facts. So wouldn't it be better just to draw up today a final report on the functioning of this committee? You can't prove anything. It will be a one-sided political spectacle to prove the thesis completely untrue, completely on your one-sided political order.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u235	You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u236	Dear Marshal, no, I don't think so. On the contrary, I think it is our duty, to us who vowed almost 2.5 years ago to the nation as senators of the Republic of Poland honestly and conscientiously Every one of us said that. To carry out duties towards the nation, to safeguard the sovereignty of the homeland, which may also be at stake in this matter, and the welfare of citizens who, according to applicants, including me, were certainly threatened, and to comply with the legal order of the Republic of Poland. And this is also, in our opinion, in the case of Pegasus's scandal at stake. I am absolutely convinced that history and posterity will thank the Senate if he tries this matter, I stress, explain. I agree with the restrictions on the emergency committee set up by the Senate because it cannot be a committee of inquiry. However, I am convinced that history and posterity will thank all those who will try to explain this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u237	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, you're a possible chairman of this committee. I'd like the senator to tell me how you imagined this committee's work. How often will she meet? What is the roughly scheduled schedule of work? When would that take? Thank you. [[I take it I can, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u239	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u240	Dear Senator, first the High Senate must choose, appoint this committee in its proposed composition, and eventually the members of the committee shall elect a chairman. However, if you ask me how I imagine the work of this committee, I will say that I think it should be energetic because there is no time to lose. Damages to the Polish state, both internal and international, in the last 3 weeks, especially since the announcement that the opposition party's campaign chief's telephone was attacked in recent elections, are unimaginable. So as soon as possible, we need to explain as much as possible. I believe that, of course, we should sit, like all Senate committees, in an open way. We should invite people, government officials, who were responsible for the purchase and use of Pegasus system, experts, both substantive experts in surveillance techniques and, for sure, legal experts, and perhaps also experts in manipulating public opinion, because we know that the probably manipulated texts of Senator Breyza were used to fight politically in the past public media. If you're asking about the intensity of the work, I'll say I think the committee should meet at least twice a week.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u241	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Wojciech Piecha's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I agree with Marshal Pak that this committee is unnecessary. It has no tools, it will not be substantive. You're just gonna listen to who? Who are you gonna listen to? [[Voice from the room: Me.]] Me. You've already given your exposé, you've already written your sentence in this case. What's the committee for? What's the committee supposed to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u243	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Mr. Chairman... I mean, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u244	Mr. Senator, I've been trying to explain for about 20 minutes why this committee would meet... [[Voice from the O.R.: One more time.]] To clear up all these doubts. But I can do it again. These are doubts. about the purchase of Pegasus from the Justice Fund, which, I remind you, was intended to serve victims of crimes, doubts about the use of it to Polish citizens, including the lawyer and the chief of staff of the opposition party during the election campaign... The Commission would also assess the legality of these actions and their impact on the election campaign in 2019 and finally recommend to the High Senate and then to the Senate. Okay, let's Also to the Sejm, legal solutions which such suspicious and likely illegal actions will prevent.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u245	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u246	Mr President, I remember a time when President Kaczyński, as PC President, strongly protested against much milder practices. And I would like to ask: if it turns out that this method was used for ministers and inconvenient parliamentarians of the United Right, will the committee also take care of it?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u247	Please answer me, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u248	Absolutely. We will try to ask the research institute Citizen Lab from Toronto, Canada, to get everyone willing, especially high officials, parliamentarians or so. Local politicians could also examine their phones. According to my knowledge, this is only possible at the moment with a small number of cameras, i.e. Apple cameras. However, work is underway to test whether a particular phone has been attacked is also possible in the case of much more popular Android cameras.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u249	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Marek Martynowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u250	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question, Mr President: will this committee have an open form? Well, as I can see and hear, at least one of the senators is willing to sign up.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u251	Mr President, the committee will be set up today by the Senate in its proposed form. I will personally support this to accept further applications, especially from your club, the Law and Justice. I would remind you that you had two seats and a seat at the bureau of this committee. And once again, I regret that you have not benefited from this proposal, because I believe that such fundamental issues must be worked beyond political divisions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u252	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u253	Mr. Senator, I want to be clear. Did the Senators of the PiS receive a proposal to enter this committee or not? And what's the situation? Did they agree or will they boycott? That's the first question. The second question concerns the results of this committee. Will the committee propose legal and organisational arrangements to control such devices not covered by laws? I'm asking because these types of devices went beyond the possibilities that were, let's say, 30 years ago, when the Police Act was being worked on, the law on services, and when the possibilities of wiretapping and previews were regulated. [[Timer signal]] Finally: is it possible in your opinion that the e-mails of Minister Dworczyk are also achieved by such a system as Pegasus or similar system used here in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Did the Senators of the PiS receive a proposal to enter this committee? Of course. Yesterday, at the beginning of the session, the Marshal presented the findings of the Seniors' Convention to enter this committee: three members for the Civic Coalition Club, two for Law and Justice and one for smaller groups and circles. You could've applied until last night. The PiS Club is the only one who hasn't reported them. And to be honest, it doesn't just worry me what I've already said. And once again, I call on you to come on board. But it's also weird. Because even 10 years ago, when setting up another committee of inquiry, it was said: "Of course, there must be a committee of inquiry and those who are against simply plead guilty. [[Oh! Yes.]] Today's vote against the committee of inquiry is a confession of guilt, as Jarosław Kaczyński said in 2012. [[Voice from the Chamber: As far as the committee of inquiry is concerned, not the extraordinary committee.]] No. That's what he said when the committee of inquiry was set up in the Sejm. And we're setting up an emergency committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I really don't think that laughter-chichs are appropriate in this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u256	Gentlemen, please follow the rules of this item. Each of you has the right to ask the senator a question. Now I ask you to ask Senator Mark's question. [[But I haven't gotten...]] I'm sorry. Now Mr Marshal Marek Pęk will speak... [[I'm sorry, I didn't answer the other two questions of Marshal Borusewicz.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u257	Is it possible that the e-mails of Minister Dworczyk from KPRM and the whole group that sailed were obtained by Pegasus? I don't know. It was certainly obtained by hacking into the post office, and it was private, although there were also content that should certainly be categorized concerning the minister. And it was most likely done, in my opinion, as a result of a crime. [[Thank you very much...]] And the third question... [[I'm sorry.]] I'm sorry, but I don't think I understood him. [[Me neither.]] [[If this committee's actions will result in legal proposals...]] Yeah, yeah. Absolutely. [[...and certain administrative...]] We're dealing with two dilemmas. The first one is quite simple, which is simply whether or not the applicable law has been violated. And the second is: does the current legal system keep up with the development of technology? Because the operations of the services and the establishment of the so-called. eavesdropping, in short, was de facto modelled on the old correspondence check, i.e. from pre- Flood times, in the post office, etc. At the moment we are dealing not only with the dominant form of electronic communication, but also with this kind of highly advanced, manipulative, influential, psychological emphasis on the tools that it is. I'm gonna say it again. Cybernetic weapons developed for intelligence, i.e. Israel's Pegasus production.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u258	Thank you. This is the third time I've called on Marshal Mark to ask you a question. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, you probably heard that yesterday in the Sejm there was a meeting of the Committee on Special Services, precisely the body which, according to the Polish system order, is intended to investigate such matters in appropriate, secret or secret mode. Plus, from what we could find out, Of course, to a limited extent. From the report by the chairman of this committee, Mr Anzelm... [[Voice from the room: Andzel.]] ...Andzela, I'm sorry, it appears that the chiefs of all the special forces were present, and the conclusion of this committee is that there is no such thing as the mass use of Pegasus... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...that all decisions regarding this special operational control... [[Timer signal]] ...are taken by an independent court. So once again, I am going back to whether you are aware that you are creating a completely alternative reality here once again, that you are describing Poland, which is not there. [[Talking in the O.R.]] One more thing... one more question about this. What are the real basis, then, for what is the source of such a broad knowledge of this practice as you describe here? Because none of us have access to that kind of knowledge, and you have an incredibly complex, complicated, very detailed story here. How do you know all this?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u260	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. You've been out of time for 46 seconds. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u261	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. It's hard to answer a question that was actually a thesis, not a question... But as for the last words, the question is, how do I know what I've said so far, I can say that there are generally available sources of information, e.g. The words of our colleague Senator Krzysztof Brejza, these are the opinions of lawyers and legal authorities who have been expressing themselves in this matter for a few weeks, these are officially published communications from the research institute Citizen Lab from Canada. This is also the issue of using it in Israel and lending it to Poland or the Polish government, and then withdrawing it in recent months because it is incompatible with the purposes of using this system, media reports, but also e.g. reports of a very respected organization in the world of Amnesty International. As for the first long part of your speech, Mr. Marshal: no, I believe it is the duty of the Senate to try to clarify this matter, even if one person was attacked, that is, the head of staff of the opposition party. And it was our colleague Senator Krzysztof Brejza But we know there's more to these people.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u262	Thank you, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I would like to ask you a question about your quote of our fellow senator and Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz. Well, I listened to this statement, examining the whole matter, and I understood it in such a way that Polish services at the moment when Minister Skurkiewicz was asked about it, did not have this instrument... [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] ...which doesn't mean... Excuse me? [[Question. This is the question stage.]] Well, question. Is that how you understood it, too, Senator, because he's going to be chair of the committee, and that's important to the whole thing... At this point, they do not have this instrument because, as we know from other sources, the State of Israel... [[Timer signal]] ...has suspended the licence for this program for Poland. Wouldn't it have been in this context, the confusion around these statements? It's about the date when Pegasus was used or what's called Pegasus... Doesn't that have a historical context at this point? This does not, of course, change the situation and the need to clarify this whole phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u264	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u265	Thank you very much. I understood that. not as a description of reality in one of the last days of December, only so that Polish services do not have such a thing at all. We'll explain, of course. I will also quote other statements, even more so, if I may say so, at least prominently, the statements of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who said: "Let's not go into a fake news spiral. There was no such reality. He answered the question as to whether the Pegasus opposition was being monitored. And then, even if there were irregularities, there is a great deal of special services in the world and we cannot conclude from what we know that such, not others, are here, among others. about Senator Breyza, they fell victim to Polish services. So he denied that this was done by the Polish service, suggesting that other services could do so. It's also a matter of trying to explain. I say again: trying to explain.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u266	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! This is about the task of the committee. They should be clear and precise. Let's start with the first one. An explanation of the identified cases of illegal surveillance. Which is illegal surveillance? Who states this in the Polish legal system? Are you guys gonna be digging through documents and then saying that something's legal or illegal? As far as I know, that's what the courts are for. Next question. One of the tasks is to clarify violations of the law when special operational control services apply. This is a very broad concept. I'm not talking about which services, which tools, but first of all, I'm asking about time. Is this all about the existence of operational services in Poland? You haven't made that clear. And question three. [[Timer signal]] Assessment of the impact on the electoral process in the revealed case... on the electoral process in the Republic of Poland. What kind of trial is this? Or all the electoral processes? As far as the Republic of Poland is concerned, it has been a mole since 1989.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u268	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u269	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, we know that this system was illegally eavesdropped, attacked in 2019 by the Chief of Staff of the Civic Coalition, Senator Krzysztof Breja.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u270	Do we know? I mean, who knows? Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, this is starting to be a cabaret, really. On what grounds? Who said that? We're a state of law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u271	Mr. Senator, you have no way of interrupting the answer to the question you asked yourself. [[Mr. Senator...]] You can, Senator, as many of your colleagues, take advantage of the opportunity to ask another question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u272	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, if you're having second thoughts about the analysis of the Citizen Lab Institute in Toronto, who said that, then we're gonna... My intention is to invite the specialists from this institute to a committee meeting and talk to them. You will then be able to express your doubts as a non-member of the committee, because, of course, like every senator, you have the opportunity to come and attend meetings of any committee, including the extraordinary one, and to clarify these doubts with the experts of the institution who confirmed it. About which election or which election process was or might have been violated... I would like to stress that here is the wording: assessment of the impact of exposed cases on the electoral process in the Republic of Poland. So far we have data from 2019, but when we use this system, what we know, for example. from the report by NIK, elections took place in Poland since 2017. In 2018, and in 2020, the presidential elections. If there are new facts that indicate that also then, as in 2019, one of the opposition politicians was being eavesdropped, we will want to deal with it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u273	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd just like to inform you. 'Cause you often ask when there might be a vote, how long will it take? That 12 more senators are saved to ask questions. Due to the fact that the answer to the question lasts 3, 4 minutes, we have another hour to count if none of you ask any further questions. So I answer to anyone who's interested in it. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Mroz's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u274	Mr. Senator, I have three questions. First question... [[A little louder...]] [[I'd like to see you in the microphone, Mr. Senator. And no matter how many questions you have, you have a minute for them.]] First question, a little in reference to Senator Czerwinski's statement. In the name of this item the words are used: the establishment of a committee to clarify cases of illegal surveillance. So it's already in its name as if it's decided that this illegal surveillance was. I think this might possibly be the conclusion of the committee's work. Well, since the name suggests there was illegal surveillance... Isn't it like Senator Marek Pak said that everything is clear? The second question is this. I read it on the Internet. I don't know if it's true or not. That the services of 102 countries purchased from Israel this license or the right to use... I don't know how to put it... [[Timer signal]] And I read that this is, among other things. Canada, Great Britain, France. I don't know if that's true because it's on Google... Do you think that, in this connection, you can charge the special services of the Canadian, French or British state that they were giving information to Israel about their citizens, that they were spying on their own, doing some kind of espionage, as some suggest? And one last question...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u275	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but you've been out of time by 35 seconds. I'm gonna take your vote. I want to tell you senators, because many of you have voiced that I have so far allowed all senators to exceed the minute limit. Both on the one hand and on the other. I want to say that from this point on, regardless of which senator asks the question, out of respect for our time together, I will be strictly guarding this minute. You're welcome... [[Formal conclusion. Can a formal conclusion be reached?]] You're welcome. A formal conclusion can always be made.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u276	Thank you. Would you mind a marshal, because not everyone can or can be here... Would you mind a marshal when we're done asking questions, giving us a five-minute break so we can go back to the gym and vote?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u277	But it's obvious. We always do, and we will. [[Good. Thank you very much.]] I can assure you that, once the questions have been asked, before the vote, of course, I will announce a recess. Don't be afraid of any manipulation on this side. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u278	Mr. Senator, like I said, we're gonna explain legal or illegal... Of course, we will not be dealing with legal service activities. According to the consensus of many experts, the use of Pegasus against its own citizens is illegal, especially to the chief of staff of the largest opposition party during the election campaign. [[Thank you...]] One more question you asked... Please repeat. [[The second one concerned other countries.]] Oh, I know, other countries. Mr. Senator, in my view, this international aspect, which concerns both data flows to Israel, to a company under the supervision of the Israeli Ministry of Defence, is clearly stated by experts that originally this cyber weapon system was used by Israeli intelligence and the use of this system in other countries... In my opinion, the most appropriate case is similar to the case of Hungary, because unlike the countries you mentioned, only in these two countries At least in Europe, i.e. in Poland and Hungary, specialists have discovered Pegasus attacks against opponents of the government. In Hungary they are journalists, and in Poland we are talking about people whom the authorities consider to be their opponents. In Poland, these are prominent opposition party politicians, a lawyer representing the leader of the same opposition party and a prosecutor. All these things we're gonna want to clear up.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u279	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Grzegorz Bierecki's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u280	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senator, We find out that on the basis of the information that Senator Brejza has received from Citizen Lab, we are to appoint a committee in the Senate with your specific tasks. Senator Brejza has repeatedly confabulated We know that, don't we? [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] My question is the question of credibility... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[I don't know that. On the contrary, I think it's very...]] I have every right to say that. [[Voice from the room: Question!]] Count me in on my time, Mr. Marshal. Okay? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I have every right to say that... [[Ladies and gentlemen, please don't interrupt, because Senator Bierecki is gaining time in this way. I have no reason not to give him the time you took. The senator has 40 seconds left. You're welcome.]] Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you about the status of Citizen Lab and who owns it. More specifically, I'm borrowing the terminology for money laundering. It is about who is the ultimate beneficiary of this company. You've repeatedly used the term Pegasus is a cybernetic weapon for intelligence. I understand that the ability to track these types of weapons has only institutions that have the appropriate software to do so, so expensive, rare tools that are not available for, so to say, hackers from the university. I would also like to ask whether you are considering the possibility that these actions, which may be the result of confabulation, serve to destabilise the political situation in Poland in the face of the current international climate.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u281	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking the senator for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u282	The questions were three. [[The most important question was who owns Citizen Lab.]] I will start with this first statement that on the basis of the findings of Senator Breyza and the Citizen Lab Institute, we are to set up a committee of inquiry. You know, Mr. Senator, I've spent a few years in the United States, and one of the things I've studied pretty hard was the biggest scandal in the history of the United States, at least the modern one, after the Second War, which is the Watergate affair. You know, when the U.S. Senate started dealing with this case, there were also those who said that on the basis of one article in The Washington Post, no committee of inquiry should be set up. And that's my comment on your first question. About... [[Sorry, that's not the answer to my question.]] [[Mr. Senator...]] [[Who owns it, and who manages it?]] That's what I'm getting at. [[That's not the answer to that question.]] [[Voice from the room: Patience!]] That's where I'm going with this, patience. [[Please don't confab...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] The Citizen Lab Institute belongs to...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u283	Gentlemen, please calm down, really. Gentlemen, it can't be that you're accusing the other side of the story of laughing while you're giggling. Everyone should behave the same way. Do not do to others what is unkind to you. It's a simple rule. Please don't giggle. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u284	It belongs to the University of Toronto, and more specifically, to his school of international relations and political science, Munk School. And that's the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u285	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking you to ask me a question, as I understand it, remotely... No. You're welcome, Senator... [[Mr. Marshal, if I may...]] Of course you can.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u286	The University of Toronto in the latest ranking of the most prestigious universities in the world is located between 8th and 12th. [[Voice from the hall: Who owns this university?]] I don't know anymore, but in Canada, which I served in, most universities are charities with... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...with the participation of the states or provinces in which they are located. [[Voice from the room: So they're private...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u287	Mr. Marshal, in the absence of an answer to my question about the final beneficiary, I would ask you to prepare this reply in writing, I do not know in what formula.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u288	I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, but I can tell you honestly, there is no such formula. Senator, both your questions and the answers in such discussions are primarily subject to the assessment of those who are watching us and not listening. You had every right to ask a question, and you asked it, and the senator answered it the way he thought it was appropriate. And both your question and your answer... I cannot oblige the senator to give you a written answer to the question, as a marshal, I simply do not have the opportunity, Senator, and you know it. I don't have any influence on what questions you're asking. So please fire me... [[Mr. Marshal, may I add two sentences to reassure the honourable senator?]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u289	Mr. Senator, I am committed to finding all the answers to your question during the committee's work. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u290	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Bogdan Klich's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u291	Thank you very much. You don't want me to believe that a bright senator like Senator Bierecki didn't know what Citizen Lab was, because I think most of us know that. We also know that this is a research team, as Senator Bosacki said, operating at one of the most prestigious universities on the North American continent, University of Toronto. I also believe very strongly that many of us have had the chance to read Pegasus' manual because this manual is available online. We can find out what his functions are and so on. In the context of international affairs, Senator It's for Senator Bosacki. I am interested in whether the committee, if set up, will take into account the great work that has been done by nearly 80 journalists from 10 countries who have studied the use of the Pegasus system for years... [[Timer signal]] [[Mr. Senator...]] ...to, let's call it, wicked targets... [[Timer signal]] [[One minute.]] And whether she'll consider how Amnesty International investigates these cases. Because not only Citizen Lab, but also Amnesty International studied them. I believe that this international context should be taken into account. I'd like to know what you think.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u292	Thank you so much for that question. Yeah, Amnesty International I was talking about, to an incomprehensible reaction to the right side of the room for me. I believe this is a very serious institution, and we will also want to talk to experts from Amnesty International. And as for the reporter's team investigating the use of Pegasus actually in the world, yes, we also want to reach out to the members of this team and talk to them.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u293	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Michael Sewerinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u294	Just a quick question. I think we've all heard about the media wiretap. We know there were American media at the beginning of this chain. Is it reasonable to assume that they acted in good faith in this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u295	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u296	Senator, the sources of knowledge about the use of Pegasus in general in the world, and above all about the use of Pegasus in Poland are much more, and these are not just media. As a rule, I treat media information, also as a man who has worked for almost 20 years in the profession of journalist, with a large, albeit limited amount of trust.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u297	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Bogusława Orzechowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u298	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you something. It was said that the emergency committee was set up in accordance with parities. I would like to know how the quotas were determined by the number of members of this committee. Because the Law and Justice Club has 47 members and has 2 seats on the committee, the Civic Coalition Club has 43 members and has 3 seats, and the other clubs have 1 seat on the committee. Why were the calculators like that? Is that consistent with parities? And if so, with what?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u299	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u300	Dear Senator, this was the proposal of the marshal and at the meeting of the Senior Convention at which I was present, this did not cause any dispute. That's the first answer to your question. And the second is that when committees of inquiry were appointed during the previous term of office of the Sejm, representatives of the highest opposition force in the Sejm were given 1st place to cast.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u301	Thank you, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Jarosław Rusiecki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I don't know if I can say this anymore, but they're calling you president here... [[Voice from the room: They already know...]] [[Voice from the hall: Chairman of the club.]] [[Chairman of the Civic Coalition Club, Dear Mr. Chairman of my defence committee.]] No, the chairman of this committee you'd like to call an investigator. I have a very simple question. Namely, in political discussions in the Sejm, which has competence to appoint committees of inquiry, there was a proposal that such a committee should be set up in time, to deal with the period since 2007. But the State of the Civic Coalition, the Civic Platform, didn't agree to that. Why? You're an officer of the Civic Platform, quite prominent, so tell me why you didn't agree to this. [[But it's in the Senate.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u303	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u304	Dear Senator, I am no officer, I am a senator from Poznań and a head of the Group of Senators of the Civic Coalition. Once again, in the Senate, when it comes to the Senate. I don't know what to talk about in the Seym. I can't answer your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u305	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u306	Mr President, will the committee examine the documents and statements of the officials of this government who have already confirmed the illegal use of public money for the purchase of Pegasus' deep surveillance system? In particular, I am talking about the decision signed by the Deputy Minister of Finance of Piotr Patkowski, who rejected the request by the NIK to violate the discipline of public finances by the Vice Minister of Justice who transferred this money from the Justice Fund to the CBA, with the following justification: the entire operation could have violated the discipline of public finances, but this did not occur to a greater extent than the negligible. Of course, in my view, the purchase of a system for the surveillance of citizens should be regarded as a violation of discipline to a high degree. But will you also invite the officials of this government who are already saying that there may have been a violation of the law on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u307	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u308	Absolutely that is my intention or our intention. I would like to add that there are comments in public space, unfortunately also from our fellow senators, that the high officials involved in this matter will not be coming. The way you described it, because they don't have that kind of duty. I would remind you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, on a matter which concerns the work of any committee, representatives of central authorities, but also local authorities, or companies of the State Treasury are required to cooperate with the Commission, to present documents which it wishes to address, to present its opinions and to participate in the work of the committee. They can be invited or summoned by her. I also read one statement that I did, but this does not apply to emergency committees. For the past year and a half, I have been a member of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, which has invited or called representatives of at least 4 ministries, and they have always appeared. I hope that this will also be the case with the Pegasus Emergency Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u309	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Marshal Marcus Pak. [[I'm dropping the question because it's already gone.]] Thank you. You're welcome, Senator Marek Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u310	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. First of all, I'd like to claim remote senators at first. Unfortunately, they cannot ask for a question. Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz has been reporting for several dozen minutes. [[Sorry, Mr. Senator, I didn't get that.]] But okay. I'm just saying there's a problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u311	But wait a minute, because it can't be that the senators report and aren't allowed to speak... Can you explain how this is possible? [[I have heard of at least one case, Wojciech Skurkiewicz, whose name has been mentioned here several times.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important matter. It needs to be explained immediately. [[Mr. Marshal, now I'd like to ask you a question.]] Please, that's your question now. We are explaining the matter of Senator Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u312	Sure. I would like, Mr President, to ask Senator Bosacki whether the chairman of this emergency committee will have a functional supplement. Just like the others in the other committees, as in the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. And will he have his office and office? 'Cause if you do, why don't you just say that there's gonna be 10 of these committees... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I can't hear the senator. It's big...]] [[Excuse me, please calm down.]] [[I haven't heard the last few words.]] I can repeat the question. I don't know. Eventually, you asked the marshal to... [[No, no. It's about the last sentence, let's say.]] [[Once again, everyone, please be quiet. You're welcome, Senator...]] Okay. [[I've heard about the bonus. I still haven't heard it.]] Will the chairman of this committee have a functional add-on? Just like the other committees. I don't know if the chairman of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs has such an addition, but the office and the secretariat do. It's a cost. If you want to please all the senators, why don't you just do it right away that you'll set up 10 committees by one resolution. That's what we do with the Senate circus. Let's do this once, and you'll be pleased.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u313	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u314	It's not a question, it's an insinuation that I find frivolous, because it's not why a committee is formed to make sure that anyone has an office or an accessory. I remind you, as head of the senator group, I already have an office. I can assure you that the newly established emergency committee will operate in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure, which concern committees, their appointment and then their operation. [[Mr. Marshal, but my question was... sorry to interrupt. Specifically, will the chairman of such a committee have an allowance or not? You don't know that?]] That's the question. Not to me. For now, I am neither a member nor a chairman of such a committee. That's a question for the Senate. I don't know.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u315	Thank you very much, Senator. All of you concerned about Senator Skurkiewicz's case, I inform you that Senator Skurkiewicz was handed over to me at 6:17 p.m. and was, of course, included on the list. So it's gonna be possible. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u316	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have this question: will they be monitored within the committee if there are any new facts on the case? That is, it cannot be excluded that the circle of people who may have been subject to such practices will be larger. It can't be said for sure, but it can't be ruled out. Secondly, whether the committee will in some organised way mediate e.g. in the ability to check the equipment of those parliamentarians who may wish to verify whether their communication device was subject to some kind of action? Is there going to be information on that? Is this planned? How are you as the person who prepared this project for you to see this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u317	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u318	Mr. Senator, this is certainly not one of the objectives, as you can see from the draft resolution on the appointment of a committee, but I believe that since Pegasus was attacked by the chief of the electoral campaign by the greatest opposition force, since a lawyer has been attacked and since the prosecutor has been attacked, those parliamentarians who want to check their phones should be able to do so. As Senator Klich has already mentioned, the manual is publicly available on the Internet. My intention is certainly to talk to representatives of the Citizen Lab Institute. Then you can ask them as much as possible if they will be ready to check e.g. Senators' phones.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u319	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Krzysztof Breja, please. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Where are you, Senator Bierecki? [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] [[Mr. Senator, now is the time to ask questions.]] Sure. In that case, I would like to ask Mr Bosacki a question. Is he aware that I've been hooked up and researched? The device for PLN 600 thousand in an operation worth PLN 4 million was examined, a fictional thread was created, checked whether I received PLN 300 for the election campaign, for fuel? It's authentic. Do you know how the basis for operational control was created? Will the committee be able to verify that? Here, when I bounce the ball, I'm going to say that Pegasus could be used for much bigger cases, financial matters, international, multi-billion-dollar, multi-million-dollar scams that unfortunately took place. [[Timer signal]] And I have an appeal to you to make this committee not to clarify my case, not even to clarify the issue of surveillance of the opposition staff, but for Poland, for Poles, in order to guarantee Poles the right to participate in free and fair elections. It wasn't an attack on the chief of staff's phone, it was an attack on the election card of every Polish woman and every Pole. [[Voice from the room: Come on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u321	Mr. Senator, no, from some of the facts you cited at the beginning of your statement, I hadn't realized yet. But I've heard of an attempt to link you to surveillance for six months refurbished 33 times with some case in your city that isn't very large. I would like to say that also in the case of much less invasive, aggressive methods of operational control, let's say, traditional, in order to obtain their consent, it is necessary to suspect that there is a crime at risk that needs to be investigated for a minimum of 3 years of absolute prison. So it's one thing with the other poop doesn't hold together, and it can only be treated as an ex post attempt to explain its likely illegal activities from 2019. One more thing here, I think, I should mention in answer to your question. Because the question is very often asked: well, and why was this done in the case of such obvious cases, which are obviously scandalous, such as eavesdropping, total surveillance of the opposition party's chief of staff during the election campaign? Well, the answer is one, the likely answer is one: because then it was thought that the system was untraceable. The fact that it's traceable has been known for only a few months. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u322	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u323	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, I would like to return to the basics, which is the subject of your work, the subject of your research, the committee, of course. This is I'm going to quote from this print again. An explanation of the detected cases of illegal surveillance and breaches of the law during the application of special operational controls by the services. On what basis will you determine which case is legal and which case is illegal? As far as I'm concerned. But maybe you can get me out of a mistake. It follows that the court finds this to be the case. Will the court give you the information it has obtained, through the prosecution's office, of course, about operational control? What are you going to study? Will there be a test subject? Because that's the basis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u324	Dear Senator, we hope that, as a result of the work of the committee and the discussions with the invited public officials, we will also come to such proposals, which was legal and which was not legal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u325	The question is asked by Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u326	I just want to make sure, Mr. Senator, that the committee is sure to take care of what I and my committee, which I chair, are very important, i.e. the worrying phenomenon of such a triangle: the service of the TVP election. So it's not just about the influence on the election through the services, listening to Senator Breyza, but also about using it in public media, addicted to law and justice and chosen by law and justice. Is that gonna be... Because I believe that this contact allows de facto manipulation of the results of the election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u327	Yes, Senator, it's assumed in the Pegasus surveillance investigation on the electoral process. This is one of the main issues to investigate, because the cycle in a few moments was obvious. So it seems very likely that the manipulated texts from Senator Breyza's phone were then used in the media, formerly public, and then used by electoral propaganda, a clean, ruling party in the election campaign. Yeah, I'm sure it has to be examined.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u328	You're asking Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u329	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I have a lot of questions. There are many half-truths here, insulting words that violate the importance of the Senate. I'd like to ask you one specific question. Can the Senate's Rules of Procedure, adopted by the Senate, broadcast it to the Senate Is it the Senate's own powers that no law or constitution gives him? I am asking this question in the context of the call by the ministerial committee for hearings, as the senator was saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u330	Mr. Senator, I think this is a question with a thesis I don't share. We're not going to usurp anything that doesn't allow the Senate's Rules of Procedure, which, I remind you, has the rank of a law. [[But Senate policy isn't...]] So far, in the history of Parliamentaryism of the Republic of Poland, senators or Members of the Senate or the Sejm have invited I did not use the word "interrogate" to attend meetings of these committees very many representatives of ministries, central offices, also companies of the Treasury or state institutes. I stress: in my opinion, this has never happened with refusals. If only in this case... And let me remind you again that the Senate's extraordinary committee has been operating on another matter for a year and a half. Government representatives and its various agendas also come there. As long as they don't come in on this case, I'll personally say it's because they have something to hide. [[But the constitution clearly defines what the Senate's tasks are. This results in the presence of ministers at these meetings.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u331	Good. The senator answered as he thought. The question is asked by Wojciech Skurkiewicz in remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u332	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question, but before I ask it, a little correction. I also expect the word "sorry" from Senator Bosacki. As I understand it, Mr. Senator has not read my interview on December 24th, but is based on statements or media reports of the Election Gazeta and other media. And he creates the thesis, according to... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...with a brief, as Members and Senators of the Platform maintain. If he gets acquainted with this interview and if he has any courage, maybe he'll apologize during this debate for those defaming words at my address. By representing the Minister of National Defence in the media, I am always speaking on behalf of the Ministry of National Defence. I remind you that the national defense department also has two special forces in its structure... [[Timer signal]] ...Military Counterintelligence and Military Intelligence Service. But this... [[Disruption during the speech]] That's why I'm counting on the correction and the word "sorry." Or let's not ask too much. I don't think we're gonna make it. And my question. You mentioned legal authority. I'd like to know these legal authorities. Why don't you give us the names of the legal authorities you spoke about and the opinions you're basing on by creating your opinions. [[Voice from the room: Time...]] And the other. Do you realize that systems, different systems in Poland, if used, are used in relation to criminals and to persons suspected of committing a crime? And every time they're used with the consent of an independent, independent court. Do you have that knowledge? But time... And one more question, more to the Senate Marshal, I think. What is the expected cost of this committee, which will examine these revelations, mainly media revelations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u333	You're welcome, Senator. Let me just explain that I extended the time I asked Mr. Senator because I think he was in the first part of the corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u334	One at a time. I didn't understand, I didn't hear any corrections from Senator Skurkiewicz, so I don't know what to straighten out. I hope he can explain it to me. That's one thing. Secondly, legal authorities. And so on. Prof. Hermeliński, former Head of the State Election Commission and a long-term judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, stated that as a result of this affair, Pegasus Sejm of the Republic should be resolved. The third question concerned costs. I have no idea, sir, but if the senator wants to, he can find out for himself. Or I can find out what the costs of the Senate commission are. I don't know.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u335	The question is Senator Jacek Bury.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u336	Mr. Senator, if the committee in the course of its work, for example, determines that some officials once again, like Minister Kaminski or Mr. Wąsik, have exceeded their authority or that any other officials have done so, then will they apply for prosecution?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u337	Anyone who knows about the crime should inform the competent authorities, including the prosecution. If we have such knowledge, we will certainly make such conclusions. I also believe that if we could reach such conclusions, it would be our duty to inform also Committee on Constitutional Responsibility of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u338	You ask Senator Marek Martynowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u339	Thank you. I promise you, that's the last question. Mr President, I would like to ask whether this committee will also deal with attacks on e-mails or social media. I'd like to say that I just happened to have a case that I've been hacked into an e-mail box twice and once into a social media account. Is the committee gonna do something like this? And will he possibly repeat any elections?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u340	Honestly, if it doesn't have anything to do with Pegasus and the case we're talking about, I don't really see it. But we can find out if there's such a connection, try to investigate. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u341	Is there any other senators who would like to ask you a question? [[Voice from the room: No!]] Senator Piech.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u342	I have one very simple question. Will the members of the committee have a certificate of access to classified information, classified information, state information? If you want to study something in such a matter, you need to have such certificates.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u343	Dear Senator, I think you've forgotten that we all have access to classified information from the office. [[Information, but just...]] It's not the first level, it's a serious level. [[No, it's not a serious level...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u344	You're asking Senator Jarosław Rusiecki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u345	Mr. Senator, you inspired me with this quote about the values you presented about democracy. What is your personal opinion: shouldn't it be possible to place the Commission's scope of action since 2007 when the Platform's governments began? Your personal opinion. [[No recording]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u346	...we know, it started with Pegasus Special Forces in 2017, and that's what we're going to do. [[Do you know anything about the surveillance of journalists during the Platform's rule?]] Personally, I have no knowledge of these matters other than the media reports and the statements of very serious law and justice politicians from 2015 and 2016 who promised to clarify this case. It's been six years and the case hasn't been cleared up by the present service. [[Voice from the room: I encourage you to contact...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u347	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski:
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u348	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, a quick question. You have included in the text of the resolution, I would like to quote: the assumptions presented on 23 September 2019 by the Ombudsman on the reform of the activities of special services. Could you quote those assumptions, at least a few?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u349	It is a fairly comprehensive document which was submitted at the end of the previous Senate term and which calls for a reform of the supervision of special services. This will, of course, be only one of the grounds for the Commission's direction of action in this area, because this document is generally talking about the supervision of services, and less about specific operational techniques, including such invasive ones as Pegasus. This or something. We will share the view that a new institution must be set up, which will control all services, will be in the course of the committee's work. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u350	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u351	But we're making a decision now, not at the end of the committee's work, and we need to know on what basis. Can you at least bring those assumptions closer to the senators?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u352	I just said that. The main objective is to set up a new institution, independent, selected in a quite innovative way, which will control the special services.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u353	What does "novator" mean? Who's gonna choose that? Who's gonna decide that? Well, sir, you're using some imaginary documents you've never presented before. Here and right now we've learned...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u354	Mr Senator, he presented this document to the High Senate during his previous term of office. This is a generally available document.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u355	Senator Marek Komorowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u356	I have a question. I mean, basically, a series of questions. I'm gonna go over the question you asked me earlier. Have the applicants considered that the scope of the tasks that the committee wants to do may require the admission to secret secrecy of such a clause? And does it provide for verification of members in this regard? Do you want to control, investigate, check all special services operating in Poland? Because, in this context, the admission to state secrecy with the exact secret clause, because I think that this clause is covered by... If members do not have access to these secrets, it is not very appropriate to compare it to the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, where different people, government representatives and information are present. And one last question in this block. Does the committee foresee how it will obtain information from the institutions of Citizen Lab? Whether he's planning on going to that institution, or Canada, or at the committee meeting... [[Voices from the hall: Oh, yeah, sure...]] I'm asking if he's planning. I have the right to know if he's planning to go there and get that information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u357	This last question I consider to be another of a series of innuendo questions, which say that the committee is being created so that any material or similar benefits may affect its members. I think it's pure... [[Mr. Senator, I wasn't talking about any benefits, I was just asking how the committee wanted information. And I think that's...]] We're going to talk to experts at Citizen Lab. How we're going to determine when the committee is set up, and yet it's not set up. As for your first question... If, in the course of the committee's work, there is a need to increase access to the level of top secret, the committee will, of course, ask the competent authorities to do so. I once, as a diplomat, had such experience and such a degree of certification, access to classified information. Finally, the third question. Or all the servants? I don't know, I can't tell if all of them at the moment, but I'm sure the role of the ABW as the certifying authority for the operating tools of the special services is here, in my opinion, very interesting, especially if all available data show this, all the information obtained from Pegasus was immediately transferred abroad, i.e. to servers under Tel Aviv. Either the Homeland Security didn't know it, or she agreed to it. If so, we'll ask why.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u358	As I can see, that was the last question, but I'm going to ask you again to make sure that any of your senators would like to ask a question. I specifically ask the senators sitting in remote mode, because I know there were problems with communication. Thank you very much. I'm calling a five-minute break. After the vote. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 46 to 18 minutes 52]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u359	Please take your seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm reopening the session. We are returning to item nine of the agenda. We are voting on the appointment of an Extraordinary Commission to clarify cases of illegal surveillance, their impact on the electoral process in the Republic of Poland and the reform of special services. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 52 were in favour, 45 against... [[Applause]] ...nobody stopped. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of an Extraordinary Commission for the clarification of cases of illegal surveillance, their impact on the electoral process in the Republic of Poland and the reform of special services. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a two-hour adjournment will be announced in a moment. 10 minutes after the adjournment, the first meeting of the emergency committee will be held. The Commission shall elect a candidate as chairman of the committee. I'm calling the first meeting of this committee in room 176. At the same time, I inform you that I am calling a meeting of the Senior Convention, which will take place 30 minutes after the announcement of the break. Following an interruption, the order may be supplemented by a point concerning the election of the chairman of the emergency committee. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u360	High Senate! The meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media on the examination of the applications submitted at the 35th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, will take place today, 12 January 5 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 182. Meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on the examination of the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on the Law on amending the Road Transport Act, the Drivers' Working Time Act and some other laws "Print No.600" will take place today, 12 January 30 minutes after the announcement of the break in session in room 182. 10 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 217, a joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance will be held on the burning of the proposals submitted to the draft law amending the Law on the specific powers of persons affected in the event of exhaustion of the guarantee sum established on the basis of the provisions in force before 1 January 2006 Last Communication: 30 minutes after the adjournment, a joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs will be held on the proposals submitted to the draft resolution amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: In which room?]] Probably in room 217. It is not given here, but there is also a meeting of the Legislative Commission. Yes, in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u361	I'm ordering an adjournment until 9:00 p.m. Then it is possible to complete the order for the election of the President and all the votes. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 56 to 21 minutes 00]] Please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the appointment of members of the Monetary Policy Council. We'll proceed with the vote. The Senate shall adopt an absolute resolution on this matter by a majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of senators. I understand that this formula is clear. We are voting on the appointment of Mr Ludwik Kotecki as a member of the Monetary Policy Council. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One person from the remote... See if you've sent... There's a signal. Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 were in favour, 41 against... [[Applause]] ...five people stopped. [[Voting No 3]] In the case of 97 senators, the minimum number of votes required is 49 and this condition has been met. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has appointed Mr Ludwik Kotecki as a member of the Monetary Policy Council and has adopted a resolution on this matter. [[Applause]] We are voting on the appointment of Mr Przemysław Litvinuk as a member of the Monetary Policy Council. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 59 were in favour, 3 against, 36 abstentions. [[Voting No 4]] In the case of 98, the minimum number of votes is 50 and this condition is met. [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has appointed Mr Przemysław Litiniuk as a member of the Monetary Policy Council and has adopted a resolution on this matter. I ask the Senate members of the Monetary Policy Council to approach the presidential table, and I would like to present you with a resolution of the Senate. The appointed members will then take an oath in accordance with the Act on the National Bank of Poland. [[Everybody up.]] [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]] I ask a member of the Monetary Policy Council, Mr. Louis Kotecki, to approach the speaker and take an oath. An oath may be made with the addition of the words, so help me God, according to the decision of swearing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u362	As a member of the Monetary Policy Council, I solemnly swear that I will act with full impartiality, knowledge and experience in monetary policy, in accordance with the objectives of the National Bank of Poland's activities. [[Applause]] Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u363	Thank you very much. I state that a member of the Monetary Policy Council appointed by the Senate, Mr Ludwik Kotecki, made an oath in accordance with the Act on the National Bank of Poland. I ask a member of the Monetary Policy Council, Mr Przemysław Litvinuk, to approach the speaker and take an oath.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u364	As a member of the Monetary Policy Council, I solemnly swear that I will act with full impartiality, knowledge and experience in monetary policy, in accordance with the objectives of the National Bank of Poland's activities. So help me God. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u365	Thank you very much. I state that a member of the Monetary Policy Council appointed by the Senate, Mr Przemysław Litwiniuk, made an oath in accordance with the Act on the National Bank of Poland. Dear Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the election of the President of the Extraordinary Commission to clarify cases of illegal surveillance, their impact on the electoral process in the Republic of Poland and the reform of the special services and to consider it as item 11 of the agenda. If I don't hear any objection, I think the High House has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the election of the President of the Extraordinary Commission. The proposal of the Senate Marshal on this matter is contained in print No 607. I would also like to inform you that the proposal for the election of Senator Marcin Bosacki as chairman of the committee has been welcomed by the Seniors' Convention. I ask Senator Sławomir Rybicki to take the floor and present the candidacy of Senator Marcin Bosacki as President of the Extraordinary Commission for the clarification of cases of illegal surveillance, their impact on the electoral process in the Republic of Poland and the reform of special services.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u366	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! The Extraordinary Commission for the clarification of cases of illegal surveillance, their impact on the electoral process in the Republic of Poland and the reform of special services at its first meeting convened by the Senate Marshal unanimously elected Marcin Bosacki as chairman of this committee. Of course, the committee recommends that the High Senate vote in favour of this very good candidacy. We all know the President, but in a few sentences, in order for the formalities to be carried out, I will remind him of his important achievements. Marcin Bosacki graduated from the University in 1994. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań, getting a master's degree in history. Since 1990, he has been associated with the Gazeta Wyborcza. He was among others. Secretary of the Poznań branch editorial office, political editor and head of the foreign department. Between 2007 and 2010, he was a correspondent for the "Gazety" in Washington, D.C. Between 2010 and 2013, he served as a press spokesperson for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Warsaw. Between 2013 and 2016 he was an ambassador of the Republic of Poland in Canada. Mr Marcin Bosacki, Senator Marcin Bosacki in his public and political activities was a activist of the democratic opposition, in 1985 and 1989 he was active in school resistance circles. He was an editor of independent non-debit publishing houses. He is a publicist, author of a book about the underground in Cegielski Zakłady. He's married. He's the father of four children. In the Senate, he is Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, member of the Committee on National Defence and member of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. What is very important, since 28 September 2020, he has been the president of the Parliamentary Club Senators' Group of the Civic Coalition, the Civic Platform, the Modern Poland Initiative, the Greens. The inquisitiveness and journalistic workshop combined with the skills, competences he acquired in his country's work, in diplomacy, are undoubtedly a great asset of the President. The Commission unanimously recommends the election of Senator Marcin Bosacki as President of the Extraordinary Commission to clarify cases of illegal surveillance, their impact on the electoral process in the Republic of Poland and the reform of special services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u367	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to ask the applicant's representative about the candidacy? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. We are voting on the election of the chairman of the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One more of the remote senators. See if he sent a signal. Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 54 for, 39 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 5]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the President of the Extraordinary Commission to clarify cases of illegal surveillance, their impact on the electoral process in the Republic of Poland and the reform of special services. I ask the president to approach the presidential table. I'd like to give you a resolution on choice. [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]] Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the date of the next Senate meeting has changed and, due to urgent laws, it is planned on 20 and 21 January and not, as you were informed earlier, on 2 and 3 February. The agenda of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means provided that these laws are passed by the Sejm and there are at least 10 of them, as it seems today. We are returning to the first item on the agenda: the Budget Law for 2022. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 601 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u368	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, I present a report on the work on the amendments which have been tabled to the Budget Law for 2022 and request the adoption of the proposals set out in points 1 to 20, 22, 25 to 45, 47 to 52, 57 to 70 of point II. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u369	Thank you very much. I ask the minority rapporteur of the committee, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to present a proposal supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing for a bill without amendment. During the committee's work, we pointed out that a number of amendments were so-called. regional, which often amount to small amounts, is currently the subject of requests by individual local governments to the Polish Loads programme and other government programmes, so it is not justified to include this in the budget as amendments made by the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u371	Thank you very much, senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion, the conclusions were made by pleno titulo senators: Kleina, Rotnicka, Czarnobaj, Morawska-Stanecka, Nebula, Małecka-Libera, Kobiak, Godyla, Libicki, Kochan, Lamczyk, Wcisła, Śwlski, Bieda, Arndt, Pęcherz, Bober, Ujazdowski, Klich, Frankiewicz, Sekuła, Plura, Gorgon-Komor, Szejnfeld, Jazłowiecka, Gromek, Gawłowski, Grodzki, Matecka, Bosacki, Ziemniak, Kwiatkowski, Dunin, Tyszkiewicz, Komarnicki, Rybicki. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed to the vote on the request of minorities of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 45 against, 52 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. These amendments are very abundant when it comes to the text, but, as I know, you are familiar with the senators. If you authorize me, I'll only read their numbers. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 52 votes for, 45 against, and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Chróścikowski is voting? No, he's gone. Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One more person from the remote. Check it out. Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 52 votes for, 45 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 53 votes for, 45 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One of the people voting remotely... Please check the signal. Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 53 votes for, 45 against, 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 100 senators, 53 votes for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 7. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One person from the remote... You're welcome. Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 51 votes for, 46 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 8. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? It's slow enough to get voices off the ground. One person is still behind us. Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 100 senators, 53 votes for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 9. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 votes against, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 10. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 53 votes for, 44 against, and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 11. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 53 votes for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 17]] N.B.: Amendments 12 and 13 should be voted together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 53 votes for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 14. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 54 for, 44 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 15. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 votes, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 16. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Are you Senator Mammoths voting? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 52 votes for, 45 against, and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 17. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 57 for, 40 against, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 18. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One of the remotes, please check. Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 51 votes, 45 against, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 19. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 51 votes, 45 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 21. Who's in favour? [[Voice from the room: 20.]] Oh, sorry, yeah, 20th. Yes, I'm correcting Amendment 20. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 51 votes, 45 against, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 25]] Now there's Amendment 21. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 3 for, 90 against, 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 22. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 51 votes, 45 against, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 23. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 2 senators voted. For, 92 against, 5 senators abstained. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 24. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 50 for, 46 against, 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 25. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 votes for, 46 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 26. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Sekuła voting? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 53 votes for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 27. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 50 for, 45 against, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 28. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 votes for, 46 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 29. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 53 votes for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 30. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 votes, 45 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 31. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 votes for, 46 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 32. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 votes for, 46 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 33. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 votes for, 46 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 38]] Amendment 34. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 54 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 39]] Amendment 35. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 votes for, 46 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 40]] Amendment 36. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 51, 46 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment 37. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 votes for, 46 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 42]] Amendment 38. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 votes for, 46 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 39. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Tobiszowska voting? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 52 votes for, 45 against, and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 44]] Amendment 40. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 52 votes for, 45 against, and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 41. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 52 votes for, 45 against, and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 46]] Amendment 42. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 51, 46 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 43. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 52 votes for, 46 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 48]] Amendment 44. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 51 votes for, 46 against, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 46. [[Voice from the room: 45.]] Sorry, 45. Amendment 45. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 votes, 45 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 50]] Amendment 46. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Is Senator Gromek voting or not? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 3 for, 92 against, 5 senators abstained. [[Voting No 51]] Amendment 47. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 votes for, 46 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 52]] Amendment 48. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 votes for, 46 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 53]] Amendment 49. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Gromka, I think we're overreacting. Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 53 votes for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 54]] Amendment 50. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 98 senators, 52 votes 43 against and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 55]] Amendment 51. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, nine for, 87 against, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 56]] Amendment 52. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 votes 41 against and 4 senators abstained. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 53. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 10 for, 86 against, 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 58]] Amendment 54. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, fifty-three for, 42 against, four senators abstained. [[Voting No 59]] Amendment 55. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, fifty-three for, 42 against, four senators abstained. [[Voting No 60]] Amendment 56. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 54 for, 42 against, 3 senators abstained. [[Voting No 61]] Amendment 57. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 votes 41 against and 4 senators abstained. [[Voting No 62]] Amendment 58. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Necessary to vote? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 63]] Amendment 59. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 votes, 45 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 64]] Amendment 60. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 votes, 45 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 65]] Amendment 61. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 votes 43 against and 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 66]] Amendment 62. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 votes, 45 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 67]] Amendment 63. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One person from the remote, please take a look... Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 68]] Amendment 64. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 votes, 45 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 69]] Amendment 65. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 votes, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 70]] Amendment 66. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 votes, 45 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 71]] Amendment 67. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 votes for, 46 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 72]] Amendment 68. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 53 votes for, 45 against, 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 73]] Amendment 69. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 53 votes for, 44 against, and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 74]] Amendment 70, last one. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 54 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 75]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One Senator from the remote, please take a look... Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 69 for, 1 against, 29 senators abstained. [[Voting No 76]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Budget Law for 2022. It's gonna be downhill by now. We are returning to the second agenda: the law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs took place at the end of the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 602 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Dorota Tobiszowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Today a joint meeting of 2 committees was held: the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Extraordinary Climate Affairs. At this joint meeting, an application was submitted for the rejection of the law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining in its entirety. In the vote of the members of both committees, this proposal was supported by 15 senators, 5 senators opposed. As Senator rapporteur, as Senator of Silesian Land, I draw attention to... I have one last opportunity to do so, and I will use it, and I will ask the High Senate to lean over this bill and to vote positively for this bill. These funds are intended to avoid, first of all, the uncontrolled loss of jobs, the uncontrolled bankruptcy of these companies. I will point out here that when the committees worked separately, we voted in a completely different way and at the meeting of the committee of national economy this law received the support of the committee. So that I ask her to support me, to lean over this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u373	Thank you, Senator. Does the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? Let me remind you that the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs was Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u374	Yes. High Senate, I support the motion to reject the bill, which has been voted out by the two joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u375	Thank you. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law, followed by a vote on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 77]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining. We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate agricultural farmers' trade in retail. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendment. It's a senate print no. 598 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 78]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the conduct of retail trade by farmers. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crime against the Polish Nationals. A meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 599 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u376	At the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, ladies and gentlemen, the committee maintained its decision and requested that the act be rejected in its entirety. The rejection took place by a majority of votes, and the amendment tabled by Senator Martynowski was not voted upon after that request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u377	Thank you very much. Does Senator Marek Martynowski still want to speak? No. Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media was Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We are voting on the motion of the Committee on Culture and Media to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm gonna need two more senators from the remote to see if they sent a signal. Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 47 against, 47 against, and four senators abstained. [[Voting No 79]] I find that the application did not obtain the majority. In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we proceed with the vote on the motion to amend the law. Who's in favour of this amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 49 votes, 38 against, 12 senators abstained. [[Voting No 80]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted 48 votes 47 against and 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 81]] [[Applause]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on IPN [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I have your attention, please? We return to the examination of item five of the agenda: the law on amending the Road Transport Act, the Act on the working time of drivers and some other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is available in print No 600 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Hamerski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the break, the committee considered the amendments tabled to the law amending the Road Transport Act, the Drivers' Working Time Act and some other laws. These amendments were summa summarum 22. I recommend that the High House adopt amendments Nos 1 and 9, 14, 16, 17, 19 and 22. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u379	Thank you very much, senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion the conclusions were made by pleno titulo senators: Zając, Pociej, Rotnicka, Jazłowicka, Lamczyk, Bosacki, Świlski, Hamerski, Bury, Błecherz. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Please note that amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 14, 16, 17, 20 and 22 should be voted on together. [[Voice from the room: Should I?]] Who's in favor of... [[Voice from the room: There was a motion.]] There was a conclusion, as he put it... Who's in favour? [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: There is no vote...]] [[Okay, well, it doesn't matter.]] Please state the results of the vote. [[Voice from the room: Which were the amendments?]] I'll text you right away. Well, that's how Hamersky called it in... [[Voice from the room: Yes, he reported.]] 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 82]] We are voting on Amendment 10. Who's in favour? Turn on the apparatus, please. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 5 for, 47 against, 46 abstentions. [[Voting No 83]] Attention, amendments 11 and 12 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 2 people from the remote system check the send signal. Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 4 for, 47 against, 48 senators abstained. [[Voting No 84]] Amendment 13. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 4 for, 48 against, 47 senators abstained. [[Voting No 85]] Amendment 15 is excluded. We are left with Amendment 18, whose adoption will rule out voting on Amendment 19. We are voting on Amendment 18. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 votes, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 86]] Amendment 21. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 52 against, 45 against, two abstentions. [[Voting No 87]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 88]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Road Transport Act, the Act on the Working Time of Drivers and some other laws. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the special powers of persons affected in the event of exhaustion of the guarantee sum established on the basis of the provisions in force before 1 January 2006. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 488 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u380	Mr. Marshal! The Joint Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Legislative Committee have met today to debate the proposed amendment, so to speak. In agreement with the patron and Senator Kleina, I have also made autocorrections as an applicant for this amendment, and this amendment has received a positive opinion from the committee. I ask the High House to vote positively on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u381	Thank you very much, senator. Would the senator still like to speak as senator of the applicant? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. During the second reading, you also submitted legislative proposals to Senator Libicki, and the senator was the rapporteur of the committee after first reading. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and at the same time to the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? I don't see any volunteers. We'll proceed with the vote. The first vote will be taken on the amendment, print No 488 X, and then on the adoption of the draft in its entirety, print No 488 S, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by Senator John Filip Libicki. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 99 senators voted, 54 for, 1 against, 44 senators abstained. [[Voting No 89]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety, with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted and the draft resolution on the submission of the bill to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Jan Filip Libicki to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 96 for, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 90]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on the special powers of the victims in the event of exhaustion of the guarantee sum established on the basis of the provisions in force before 1 January 2006 and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Jan Filip Libicki to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, and obliged those committees to submit an additional report, which is in print No 580 X, at the present Senate meeting. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u382	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I present an additional report from the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee, which at today's meeting supported the proposal contained in section 1 of the table of proposals and request its adoption by the Senate together with a uniform draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u383	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the second reading, the proposals were submitted by Senators Marcin Bosacki, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Krzysztof Mróz. Senator Sławomir Rybicki was the committee's rapporteur after first reading. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a query to the rapporteur of the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such inquiries? No. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted in the order of the text. Print No 580 X followed by the adoption of the project in its entirety Print No 580 S, as amended by the amendments adopted. We are voting on Amendment 1. Attention, the adoption of this amendment will rule out voting on Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 votes, 4 against, 42 senators abstained. [[Voting No 91]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in its entirety with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 54 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 92]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on amending the Senate's Rules of Procedure. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on debt restructuring of farm operators. I would like to remind you that a report on the draft law was presented to the committee prior to the adjournment and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No. 605 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Richard Bober to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill presented by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, no one against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 93]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Richard Bober to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 30th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. Only matters relating to the implementation of the mandate may be the subject of the statement and may not relate to matters on the current agenda. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Alicia Chybick will make your first statement. Senator Chybick... Oh, there it is. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u384	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Please transfer the caucus calls to the caucus.]] I was approached by the Polish Association of Providers of Mechanical Ventilation asking for help, intervention, so this intervention, this statement is addressed to the Minister of Health. It turns out that a new position of the Tarification Council was published on 25 October 2021, where long-term home care rates for mechanically ventilated patients have been significantly reduced since 1 January of this year. And here's a few words about this home mechanical ventilation. What's she giving? This ventilation reduces the symptoms of vesicular hyperventilation, better and deeper breathing, rest and regeneration of the respiratory muscles, fewer pulmonary infections in patients, reduced symptoms of chronic fatigue and impaired concentration, improved comfort of life, increased vital and professional activity, enabling patients with complete respiratory failure to return from hospital to home. So this is generally for patients who have respiratory problems more or less severe. This ventilation is divided into 2 groups: invasive with tracheostomy and non-invasive mask. The diseases in which it is used are neuromuscular diseases, myopathy, muscle dystrophy of Duchenne, Becker's core muscle atrophy, atrophy lateral sclerosis, poliomyelitis, CNS diseases, post-trauma conditions of high spinal cord, chest wall disease, COPD, cystic fibrosis, obstructive apnea. The ones I mentioned are definitely not all units. Minister, to whom I am directing this, we now have a great problem with the treatment of all diseases in hospitals because of the COVID. Sending a patient like that, all the patients I've exchanged home, makes room for other patients who are waiting for hospitalization. So, please lean on the calculations made by the Tarification Council on the basis of the report of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification, because everyone who is part of this nationwide relationship agrees that they are unable to provide care for these patients in their home conditions. As a doctor, I can say that it is not such a simple matter of securing a ventilator at home and making sure that actually, as it is written here, it reduces the number of infections, because if the family were doing it, it would increase their number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u385	Thank you very much, Senator. The statement will be made by Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u386	Dear Marshal, The statement is addressed to the head of the Office of the President of the Republic, Minister Grażyna Ignaczak-Bandych. One of the most important problems of violence in general, and sexual violence in particular today is undoubtedly the phenomenon of pedophilia in Poland. However, the effectiveness of prosecuting its perpetrators has been largely illusory and, in the face of pandemics and restrictions on mobility, there has been a marked escalation in recent years. The scale of the phenomenon is enormous and difficult to fully estimate. The fact that, despite important limitations, the pedophilia committee is already officially monitoring more than 400 legal and prosecutorial proceedings today gives a partial impression of the seriousness of the situation. It is also known that in the case of proceedings already concluded, if circumstances permit, the committee shall also act as a sue prosecutor, thus monitoring the course of the whole case before the court after reading the indictment. Within the framework of its powers, the committee may also examine the judgments of the court and, if it considers it necessary, request the prosecutor-general to file an appeal in the case under consideration. It is easy to note that, at the level of the initial assumptions and the general legitimacy of the legal capacity of the committee seems satisfactory. However, the practice of action proves a number of complications that de facto paralyze the proceedings, making part of the seeming or incomplete actions. It has been forgot to give the committee the right to investigate cases where there has been a statute of limitations. The 2019 Act, despite the amendment, did not foresee because there are no changes to the rules governing the investigation procedure. This makes it possible for the committee to initiate such proceedings to be paralyzed by bringing it before a district court as having a legal defect and consequently being annulled. On 26 April 2021, the committee had already submitted this gap to the President of the Republic of Poland, Andrzej Duda. For the next six months, the joint work of the members of the committee and the staff of the President's Chancellery has been ongoing, and since 26 October, the project has been fully ready to be accepted by the President and sent to the Sejm. Without the assistance of this tool, the committee cannot initiate investigations and conduct them in accordance with the rules, as appropriate solutions are lacking in the said law. According to the committee's estimates, the existing legislative patch is currently preventing about 100 proceedings. This failure to fulfil some of the key tasks also translates into a loss of confidence in the committee by the victims and even the public questioning of their credibility. I therefore ask that urgent action be taken to improve the work of the pedophilia committee and to put in place the necessary legislative paths established previously. I make this statement on behalf of myself and Senator Halina Poora. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u387	Thank you very much, Senator. You will make a statement to Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u388	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have three statements, short, so I can fit in time. The first statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Statement to the President of the Council of Ministers. In connection with perturbations around the Polish Order, I ask for information as to whether the government of the Republic of Poland is planning a comprehensive bill in the near future cleaning errors and ambiguities in the Polish Łada. Statement addressed to the Minister of Finance. In connection with the entry into force of the Polish Government and in the face of conflicting reports in the media, I ask for information as to whether the spouses who account together, when one of the spouses achieves income higher than the upper ceiling to which the relief is granted and the other lower, and both together achieve annual income of not less than PLN 136 000 824 but not more than PLN 267 thousand 384, are entitled to benefit from this relief. And a third statement, to the President of the Council of Ministers. In view of the fact that housing costs have increased at a much higher level than the inflation rate announced by the CSO, which hits households with lower incomes in particular, I ask for information as to whether the government is planning to change the rules for applying for a housing allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-12-senat-35-2.u389	Thank you very much, Senator. Indeed, not more than 2 minutes for 3 statements. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 30th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 30th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the 10th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Meeting adjourned at 22 minutes 43]]
