ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Marcin Duszek, Magdalena Łośko, Karolina Pavliczak and Paweł Rychlik. Members Magdalena Łośko and Karolina Pavliczak will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Karolina Pavliczak and Paweł Rychlik. I ask the appointed Members of the Secretaries to take their seats. Welcome, Madam Secretary, and I would like to ask you to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u2	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance - hour. 9, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 9, - Health-- hour. 9.30 a.m., - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 10, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation jointly with the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h. 10, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 10, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 10.30, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 12.15. The Parliamentary Group for Migration and Integration Policy will also meet today - at 10 a.m. 2.30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. So we move on to our point. I would ask you to ask Mr Arkadius Ivanik a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Seven years ago, when PiS came to power, he went with the slogan of fighting the fuel mob and the coal mob. Then you told people how you'd fight all the oil and coal cons while you were chasing thieves. Today, after seven years of your governments, we see that it really came out of the bag and you didn't catch anybody, but you managed to grow your own carbon system. I'm not afraid to say carbon mafia. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, how else do you call this great fraud that is happening in front of our eyes today? That's the real coal mob you've been looking for. In just a few months, the price of coal jumped from 800 to 3,000. 1 t zł. Who can afford it? Under the pretext of war chaos and crisis in the energy market, speculators have raised the prices of this raw material to ridiculous levels. My question is very simple: Why did you allow the formation of coal mafia and illegal coal trading in Poland? Why didn't you protect the energy raw materials market from speculators when the war broke out? How does the government intend to fill the gap caused by the missing opal and make it before winter?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Essential question: When will the government unlock the development of green energy from renewable sources in Poland, such as photovoltaics, thanks to which cheap electricity and cheap heat could be in Polish homes? When will you stop fooling Poles and Poles that the future of Poland is coal? The whole Europe is now installing photovoltaic panels, independent of coal, from gas, and with us Kaczyński, the premier Kaczyński took these panels from Poles. Prime Minister Kaczyński has undoubtedly three successes in Polish energy: he first killed wind energy, 6 years ago, then served Members at Kaczyński's command (Dzwonek) changed the Act on Photovoltaics and made it inefficient, and then grew a coal mafia, previously addicting poor Polish families, 2 million Polish families, to coal supplies. How? From Russia. From Russia. When are the coal subsidies for those people you put on coal heating today? When are you gonna unlock the photovoltaics? When are you going to start investing in transmission networks, in heat pumps in green hydrogen? When will you restore prosumer-friendly system for clearing this photovoltaics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u7	Thank you very much, Member. These questions were addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, on behalf of whom Minister Jacek Odoroba will answer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u8	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the arguments, the question, in fact, whether Mr Ivanik's thesis, I will not agree with it, because the authorities of the state are acting in the fight against all possible organised criminal groups and calling them mafias. The European Union - because I understand that this is the suggestion of the absence of an embargo on Russian coal - is at least inappropriate. It must be borne in mind that so far the European Union has not imposed an embargo on raw materials and any breach could have consequences for Poland. Poland as one of the first countries after 24 February introduced such an embargo, which is obvious maybe not in all European countries. When it comes to securing families and securing contracts, we now have over 8 million tons. This is the number, this is the volume that was imported from the eastern direction by private entrepreneurs - however there is, a narrow section in heating. Shortening the supply chain and improving the functioning of all possible entities or actually platforms will provide easier access to this raw material and contracting, among others. From Indonesia, Australia or South Africa, coal will not run out in Poland. On the issue of aid, over PLN 4 billion was secured for support. This is the support that will cover over 7 million Polish farms. On the issue of diversification of gas supply, because it was also part of the discussion, one must remember that the Government of the United Right has been diversifying gas supply since the beginning. One example is the creation of Baltic Pipe, a project that was criticised by PSL or by the former Minister for Economic Affairs, or even by the environment of the left. This was stopped in the first phase, because historically not everyone remembers, but activities related to the idea of diversification were stopped by the Government of the Democratic Left Alliance, and the Government of the United Right, the Government of Law and Justice in the years 2005-2007 began activities related to the construction of this type of diversification, which will end in the autumn period. Unfortunately, after 2007, by 2015 political will and actions did not seek to accelerate, and even hinder work related to this key, however it would be, for Poland and for the energy security of the state project. That's it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u9	Thank you very much, Minister, for your response. The second question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and concerns the extension of government programmes. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, another question to assist.]] Excuse me, extra question. I am so sorry, sir. There you go, Mr Kopiec.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister confused the TVPiS studio with the Sejm, in which we ask for specifics. You presented propaganda instead of facts. This network of sales works so that today coal costs 3,000. PLN per tonne at an unfair seller, while in the Polish Mining Group this coal is three times cheaper. At the COP24 climate summit Andrzej Duda stated that we have 200 years of operation in Poland. I understand that this is also a government line, and I would like to hear a concrete declaration from the government, how it really is and whether you are maintaining that this coal in Poland is enough for 200 years, because practice shows that you only needed a month of embargo on the supply of coal from Russia and this system has fallen. So where are the 200 years? And three specific questions, I would ask you to answer in writing. What procedures have been put in place to protect consumers from unfair intermediaries, extortion and overcharging along with the start of sales of coal to individuals via the Internet? What price protection procedure was used in a situation caused by increased demand for coal? [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're talking about the conditions under which you were supposedly the ones who warned the whole world that Russia could attack. And what inter-ministerial and external cooperation, such as the UOKiK, was undertaken to protect prices for individual customers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u11	Thank you very much and I apologise to the Member for this inattention. Now again, I ask Minister Ornament to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u12	Left as always consistent in Poland's loss of energy sovereignty. After February 24, you believe that Poland in energy should leave coal rapidly, and you want more Russian gas. I understand that the energywende strategy and you want Nord Stream 2. I'm the one who's just speaking in this room. As for the other issues, this is already point three, which will be in this discussion, so the competent minister will answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u13	Thank you. We are now approaching the question I announced earlier to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, on behalf of which Minister Paweł Chezernaker will answer, concerning the extension of government programmes for helping refugees from Ukraine. The first question will be asked by Monika Pawłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! About 1.5 million refugees are currently in Poland. The government introduced 40 PLN a day for people receiving refugees from Ukraine in mid-March. Then the rules changed, the condition of having a PESEL number was introduced and the duration of the benefit was extended to 120 days or more, among others. for sick people. In Poland, government programs supporting these...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u15	Louder please, Member, perhaps closer to the microphone.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u16	In Poland, government programs are ending to support those who have accepted people fleeing the war from Ukraine into their homes, but helping Ukrainian citizens is still ongoing. What's it gonna look like in July? Question: "What solutions does the government plan to solve the problem of reception of refugees so that citizens do not have to choose between heart and help and their own needs?" Does the Ministry have data on how many PESEL numbers have been given and how many benefits have already been paid and for what amount? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u17	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Chezernaker is on his way to the speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not true that funding for refugee assistance is now ending. Indeed, the government has presented a law that the High House has adopted with quite a political consensus, over political divisions, introducing benefits for families providing aid to refugees for 120 days. After consultation with migration experts, including after discussions with organisations that deal with assistance, also in view of the situation in which refugees are located - I will remind you that nearly 40% refugees of productive age legally took up work in Poland - we decided to keep this period unchanged, i.e. every refugee, also the one who gets to Poland e.g. in June - i.e. if the refugee reaches Poland now - he has these 120 days to take advantage of the possibility of helping the Polish family. So nothing ends at the end of June, the rules that were adopted in March continue to function. Of course, for those who came here at the beginning of the war on 25 and 26 February, this period of 120 days ends at the end of June, but it is only for those people, not that these solutions end at the end of June. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the second stage of aid for refugees. This aid, which we will be providing as Poland, is long-distance and today we are starting its second stage. We're getting out of such humanitarian aid related to food aid for everyone, accommodation for everyone. At the moment we will be providing such assistance primarily to those who are most in need, i.e. people with disabilities, women who came to Poland with a large group of children and do not have the opportunity to become independent, it will also help older people, i.e. those who did not have the opportunity to become independent in Poland within 4 months. For those who have the possibility, we introduce system solutions which are intended to allow them to better adapt in Poland, i.e. language courses for refugees from Ukraine or, for example, the introduction of new rules related to the creation of children's clubs for children from Ukraine, so that those women who have come to Poland and plan to stay here for longer can take up work and children to be properly taken care of. So we accept many different system solutions that were accepted by the Law adopted yesterday by the Sejm. This bill is in the Senate right now. And solutions from the first stage, humanitarian aid related to food, accommodation, provided by individuals in Poland, remain unchanged. They remain for 120 days for those who come to Poland. Every refugee who comes to Poland has the opportunity to receive help from the Polish family, for which the Polish state will pay. We will take such action in the near future. We are also planning in the next few days in all voivodships to organize competitions for non-governmental organisations which will deal with specific cases related to the assistance of people with disabilities, with the help of children who need this help and who have come to us from Ukraine. We are trying to ensure that the Polish state in its solutions, procedures provide a full range of assistance to those whom it really needs. But at the same time, I would like to stress that it is indeed a migration that, on a global scale, as is also said by experts who are involved, for example from the United Nations, is special, because it is rare for such a large group of people to want to become independent so quickly and to work in the place they are reaching. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u19	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Kapinos will ask Mr Kapinos as the second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u20	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! Refugees continue to come to Poland. There are people who are only coming now, because they had a very long route of emigration, and often still have an internal emigration phenomenon. There are people who haven't gotten any financial help yet, and they're gonna need it, just like a rooftop, education, or access to health care. The question is how the situation at the border is presented and what figures concerning crossings of the Polish-Ukrainian border are now recorded in Poland. Is it expected to increase or decrease the tide of refugees and at what time? How are other countries fulfilling the declaration of aid and reception of refugees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u21	Thank you. Once again, we ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! From 10 May on the Polish-Ukrainian border we observe a trend in which more people leave Poland than come to Poland. I think that today we can talk about the fact that several thousand people come to Poland every day as part of the escape from the war. Since this border traffic has increased, a large number of people who cross the Polish border are people who reach here, for example. for purchase purposes. So we can talk about a few thousand people who come to Poland, just fleeing Ukraine from the war and at the same time more people are going to Ukraine. In the conversations of border guards officers with these people, they declare that they would like to stay in Ukraine and that, if it is possible to return safely to their homes, they just want to return to their loved ones and to be able to rebuild their country. Of course, the dynamics of war do not allow us to clearly state that such a trend will continue, although at the moment we have this kind of situation on the Polish-Ukrainian border. Every day around twenty thousand people pass from Poland to Ukraine, of which after talking to these people we assume that about 1/4 are people who return to Ukraine, so it can be assumed that about 6-8 thousand. people a day are those who return to Ukraine, refugees who return to Ukraine from Poland. To answer the second part of the question, ladies and gentlemen, migration has to do with itself that many of the decisions that refugees make are very dynamic, variable. A few days ago, I had the opportunity to speak to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. refugees in Scotland, who confirmed that many refugees apply for visas to the UK, make them, and then, despite receiving the visa, eventually stays in Poland and not goes to the UK. The same is true of Canada, the United States. These people, I think, treat these visas as such a policy for the future, and yet because many of their families remain in Europe, whether in Poland or Ukraine, they want to stay here as long as possible. So we work with other countries to help them get to those countries who want to get there in order to find a safe home. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, on behalf of which Minister Piotr Pyzik will answer. It concerns the reasons for the lack of coal and other fuel, the drastic increase in their prices and the profits of coal companies. The first question will be asked by Mr Marcin Kierwiński and, secondly, by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! A few weeks ago, Prime Minister Morawiecki said that Poland is a safe energy country. So let's take a look at some of the numbers to describe this security. The Chamber of Commerce of Polish Coal Sellers estimates that the deficit of raw material, coal, this year will exceed 11 million tons. Already in this heating season, the corresponding household expenditure represents 8% on average household income and are the highest in 8 years. The share of households in the energy poverty situation has increased to 31%. And this is your energy security? Is that what you're talking about, Prime Minister Morawiecki? You've caused a disaster. You've caused a disaster in the energy market. You are the reconstruction group of the Polish People's Republic. You actually introduced the attorneys of martial law, the TV Journal, you did -- you did -- extreme inflation, and at the very end you led to things, it would seem, unthinkable -- to the fact that there is no coal. This already threatens, Minister, such biological security of Poles. There's nothing left to tell these dirdids about how powerful you are, how great everything is, but you just have to react. Do you realize that the cost of heating a family house, if anything, will be between 15 and 20,000 this heating season.? Do you realize that? That's your safety? Is this how you want to build Polish energy independence? This is ridiculous. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, do you have any real solutions to this problem? Is the only thing you have to propose a chrust+ program that, by the way, is some extreme expression of arrogance towards Poles? Poles today cannot buy coal, they cannot buy green peas, prices are record high, we are dealing with speculation in this market, and you tell, say, let Poles go into the woods and pick up chrust. What are you doing back in medieval Poland? Really, be serious. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik now responds.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, by providing information in this space, which, let's say, is a question about the reasons for the lack of coal and other fuel, the drastic increase in their prices and the profits of coal companies, I answer the following. At present, there is a very difficult price and supply situation in the energy coal market as a result of recent months. There has been a significant change in the geopolitical situation, the war in Ukraine has damaged the current order. All I'm gonna say is that nothing that was still on February 24th is gonna happen again, the world is gonna be different and it's gonna be different. I would ask you to establish that knowledge. The war has damaged the current order and, as a result, the existing supply chains have been severed, which has triggered an energy crisis and has translated into a reduction in imports of energy raw materials within the European Union and an increase in prices. In addition, it should be mentioned that due to the energy transformation processes in the European Union resulting from the CO emission reduction objectives In recent years, the demand for energy coal in the municipal and real estate sector has been covered by imported raw materials. The imports of hard coal were mainly carried out by private operators. In 2021 more than 8 million tons of hard coal were imported into Poland from Russia. Coal imported from Russia in the vast majority was sent to individual customers, as well as small heating plants, businesses and gardeners. I would like to remind you of one thing: Russian coal was imported because Russian coal was the cheapest on the market and private entrepreneurs are working for their own profit. Therefore, they took from the market the available coal, which was the cheapest. The problem of coal shortages does not concern large energy, which is the biggest consumer of this fuel and the largest customer of coal from Polish mines. Energy has secured coal supply thanks to the fact that already in previous years it limited the use of coal imported for coal from Polish mines. In the most difficult situation, there are operators who have used imported coal so far and individual customers supplying themselves through intermediaries. The Treasury companies confirm the increase in production this year, and the first results of the implemented activities and the involvement of miners are already visible. For example, in March of this year 176 thousand were extracted. t energy coal more than in March 2021 and in April by 151 000. t more than the year before. Sales of hard coal after 4 months of this year amounted to 15 300 thousand. t, that's about 615 thousand. t more than in the same period last year. This year the companies of the State Treasury plan to increase their extraction by around 1.5 million tons. Of course, I'm talking about energy coal. However, it should be stressed that the preparation of new walls is a time-consuming and costly process. Making the mining wall available for about 800,000. t coal lasts about 1.5 years and costs about 200 million, assuming, of course, that all procedures, including geological issues, are available and are favourable to this process. That's another line. Fuel coal offered to households by companies of the State Treasury, e.g. by the company Polska Grupa Górnicza SA, is available at the manufacturer's price, i.e. without additional margins and indirect costs. As a result, the offer prepared by PGG SA is attractive and arouses great interest among customers who want to obtain this type of fuel. However, the interest currently exceeds the company's ability to supply raw material, resulting in difficulties and the lack of simultaneous service to all interested parties. Moreover, it should be pointed out once again that coal is a derivative of all coal production from mines and cannot be easily redirected from another direction to the municipal and residential sector in order to increase the availability of this fuel. The fact that the current difficult situation does not only concern Poland also requires emphasis. The price of imported coal remains very high. By comparison, according to the European Coal Trade Index, the price of 1 t coal in June ub. year was about $100, and now it's already over $300, that's within the range of approx. $330. There are tens of thousands of coal warehouses in Poland. They are private entities that act to make a profit. The Ministry of State Assets, as well as coal-producing companies, could not shape the prices at which coal is offered by coal storage intermediaries. With today's huge demand, the natural consequence was the rise in prices. Maybe I will finish at this stage, or at the next question (the bell) I will answer on other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u27	The next question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u28	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The government has no control over the extraction, no control over the sale of coal, no control over the import, no control over the crumbling. The Poles, Minister, see that this chaos, this mess, this incompetence of yours has led to what? It has led to what we have today, which is a crazy, 300 percent increase in coal prices. Companies controlled by the State Treasury generate high margins and generate the highest profits. What do Poles do? Poles generate the biggest costs. Minister! Come to your senses. Poles want a simple answer. They want to know what you've prepared for them. They want to know what strategy you have, how much coal they can buy, how much it will cost 1 t imported coal, who will be able to buy, when, how much will the chronus beam cost (Bell) on Orlena. They want to know the details. And that's what we demand from the state, not any stories, fabulous stories, etc. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u29	I ask Minister Pyzik to answer again.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u30	Thank you very much for this supplementary question. [[Please respond to this.]] As regards the most important issue, namely the defence of the market, and precisely consumers against these prices, the team appointed by Minister Anna Moscow is working on it. This is a question of synchronization of carbon imports, real mining possibilities. [[Are there any effects now?]] I just informed the High House about them. I'll read it further. Financial results of mining companies: the extraction of coal in total, including coal and coke, after 4 months of this year amounted to 19 million tons and compared to 4 months was higher by 153 400 tons. [[How much is this percentage?]] Total sales of hard coal after 4 months amounted to 19.7 million tons and compared to 4 months of this year were higher by more than 500 thousand. t. The average sale price of hard coal after 4 months was PLN 558,48 per tonne and increased by 83.5% Compared to 4 months, including the price of energy coal increased by 30% in April year to year. On the other hand, the price of medium, small energy coal, i.e. eco peas, rose by 68%, and the price of sorting year by year, in terms of the first 4 months, increased by 33%. [[Minister, are these the effects of this team?]] I do not intentionally give value because these prices include sales to both large customers, to individual customers and to intermediaries. I wanted to avoid charges that there are no such prices in Poland on the compilations and that I am giving false underpriced prices. I wanted to illustrate the scale of the increase in the mines and how it translates into the profits of the mines. The average unit cost of coal sales in coal mining after 4 months of this year was over 384 PLN per tonne and compared to 4 months last year was almost 38 PLN higher, i.e. by more than 10% , almost 11%. The unit result from sales of coal after 4 months was positive, amounted to more than PLN 173 per 1 t and was better than the result after 4 months of last year exactly about PLN 216.47. Positive results from coal sales for coal mining were PLN 3450 million after 4 months of this year. The net financial result of hard coal mining after 4 months of this year is positive and amounts to PLN 2860 million, on the plus of course. [[Minister, that means Poles pay more and profits are bigger, right?]] Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u31	Excuse me, sir, but the additional questions have already been answered and the pot has been exhausted. Now Minister Pyzik is trying to answer questions, but please give him the same comfort of answers as you had when you asked questions. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Acts Piotr Pyzik: Thank you. However, it should be noted that the results also include a segment of coke coal, which has also reached its records in recent months. If one of your Members feels unsatisfied with the answer, please make a request and there will be a written reply. Thank you. [[Minister, please respond in writing.]] It's obvious. Please specify these questions. Thank you. And there's gonna be a written answer. Thank you very much. In the meantime, let's move on to the next question. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, on behalf of which Mr Łukasz Schreiber will be a member of the Council of Ministers. The question concerns doubts as to the correctness of the statement of property of the President of the Council of Ministers. Mr Dariusz Joński is the first question to be asked and Mr Michał Szczerba is the second question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u32	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Morawiecki is a disgusting speculator and hustler. It's in his DNA. He didn't go into politics for any idea. He lied when he said those words. He went to politics to speculate on state assets. He didn't have enough to speculate on church plots, which he and his wife bought for 700,000. PLN and sold for 15 million PLN. A year ago, when he owned information that he didn't give to the public, he transferred all his accumulated financial assets from the banks and bought bonds. And note, right now, Prime Minister Morawiecki is going to make more money on this, the higher inflation will be. So he doesn't want this inflation to go down because he's gonna lose it. And if we know Morawiecki and his greed, we can imagine him pulling us down to earn money. Before Prime Minister Morawiecki of Glapiński comes to the Court of State, I have two short questions: How many bonds did Prime Minister Morawiecki's wife purchase, to which he reassign almost all his assets, and for what amount? And two: If Prime Minister Morawiecki knew that there would be double-digit inflation and he bought the bonds himself, why didn't he give it to the public? Perhaps if people knew about it, they could afford to buy coal today, not burn it in the oven. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u33	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Minister Luke Schreiber to grant... [[But still Mr Szczerba.]] Oh, yeah. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! The Ministry of Finance has just announced that two-year fixed-rate bonds will no longer be available. Of course, this question is crucial because we have a statement of property by Prime Minister Morawiecki, which makes it clear that he bought tax bonds for the amount of PLN 4.6 million. Minister Schreiber! You represent Prime Minister Morawiecki, who should be here. On what terms and when Prime Minister Morawiecki, supervising the Minister of Finance, who sold these bonds on behalf of the Minister of the Treasury... Who sold those bonds? The stockbroker's office of a state bank. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How did he buy those bonds? Second: When will there be a legislative proposal on the disclosure of statements of property of political families? This is the case you've been keeping. You stopped it with Julia Przyłębska's hands and you're not going back to the subject. The question is: How many bonds did you buy Iwona Morawieck? After all, he holds at least a dozen million zlotys in cash for the sale of the plot bought in 2012 for cash. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u35	Thank you very much. We ask you very much, Minister Luke Schreiber.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna skip the level of emotion and fake excitement that you could feel by listening to your questions. Of course, Members of Parliament are well aware that I do not have any information about whose wife, wife, whose minister or prime minister, buys bonds from the Treasury. On the other hand, I will refer to the key points of this statement. First of all, I don't think it's a sensation for anybody that the Prime Minister has a fortune that he declares to the public every year in a wealth statement. The declaration of property, which may be worth recalling to some in this Chamber, is made public through the activities of Members of the Third term of office of the Sejm. One of the initiators of this solution was President Jarosław Kaczyński, and the initiators were also other Members of Law and Justice. That's one thing. Secondly, as I said, the prime minister's assets have been declared in his statements for many years - it is quite clear. And what you did, of course, when it comes to property separation, I understand, was much earlier, a few years earlier, before the Prime Minister took the position of state - that is another matter. Let's move on: Treasury bonds, Treasury bonds. You think this is something embarrassing? Would you rather, I understand, that the Polish Prime Minister invests in foreign investment funds or places his funds abroad? I think it's the opposite. The Prime Minister - and the Prime Minister, and we, for many months and even years, can be said - encouraged Poles to invest in bonds, and his attitude is to show that he was not afraid to do it himself. And already accusing the Prime Minister that he did it because he thought Putin was going to start a war, which is why it's going to be high inflation, and that's why it's worth buying bonds... Is that what you're saying? I encourage you to minimize the decency of these statements. Let's move on. Is there any reason to be ashamed of such a decision? I don't think so. More, I think that each of us in this Chamber should encourage Poles to invest in sovereign bonds. Look at Italy or Japan. These are countries which, although public debt is much higher than Poland - even with such statistics we often enjoy it - but it is the debt they have in their citizens and not abroad. So this is it... Besides, it's no secret, and what you're telling me, like it's some kind of secret operation or operation that's only available to, I don't know, Members or members of the Council of Ministers. No, for every citizen. Moreover, there were even press conferences at which the Prime Minister encouraged citizens to make such decisions. So this is absolutely transparent. That's why you can say that, because the Prime Minister's statement is transparent because you see everything he's done and he has no reason to be ashamed of it. You have reason to be ashamed of how you have asked these questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u37	Thank you very much. Another question will also be shared by Members. This time as the first Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u38	Dear Marshal, This is the key question we would like to ask: Does Prime Minister Morawiecki have the nature of the premiere, or does he still have the nature of the bankster? And you, Minister Schreiber, have not answered that question. [[Don't insult me.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What the Prime Minister is doing is called insider trading. Insider trading is the use of confidential information that the government had to multiply its profits. And that's what you didn't answer, the conflict of interest that is absolutely obvious in this case. Now we would like to say that we live in a poor society. This poverty is related to how you conduct monetary policy. And the Prime Minister, who has access to information that there will be inflation, indexed bonds, indexed inflation, buys. We want to know how much it should be public. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u39	Thank you very much. Six seconds left, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! Perhaps there are six seconds left, but for many people this is a really serious problem because they lose their savings. The problem is that Glapiński talked about deflation last year. Prime Minister Morawiecki and Glapiński have full information about the state's finances. And Morawiecki used it to get rich, not to inform people. You ran various billboard campaigns last year, information campaigns, including sending billboards abroad, and you couldn't give people information to invest, among other things. In bonds, or they won't lose their savings. That's the problem. Here is Moravian greed shown and the fact that people will be bankrupt through his decisions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u41	Thank you very much. Minister Łukasz Schreiber.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think I've already answered all these questions. And what you're doing, what you're trying to do with every case, is doing this kind of thing, insulting everyone around you. I know you're measuring people with your measure and perhaps your colleagues, your ministers, but stop it. [[Answer the question.]] You want to, so you're demanding transparency now. Let the opposition leader show his claims of property. Why doesn't he? [[Voice from the room: He is not an MEP.]] Oh, so he doesn't have to. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, please allow the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u44	So that you have a mission and a mission, you can get him to show off his property statement. I think it's gonna be more beneficial to the public than the phillips you've just been insulting people in. You're using immunity because you know it's hard to put someone on trial for what they've said here. [[When's the bill, Minister? The Publicity Act.]] And that's the truth.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u45	Once again, please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u46	You know perfectly well that if you were to use words such as just now, addressed to anyone, e.g. At a press conference, you'd have a trial in court that you'd lose because it's wicked. [[We're talking about a property statement.]] And as for the bonds, let's say it again. You say, we will say: yes, let Poles buy bonds, let them invest in Treasury bonds. It will be for the benefit of citizens, and for Poland, and for the change of the structure of public debt. All this should be clear to you, and the matter should not arouse any emotion. [[But that's something to understand.]] Because if the Prime Minister, as I say, were to invest... If you could tell me that the Prime Minister has obtained an illegal estate, if you could point out such doubts... [[He speculated on the plot.]] ...if you could point out that he was just following some kind of confidential knowledge to get the resources... This is your idea. The Prime Minister is trying... [[Glapiński said there's a deflation, and there's inflation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u47	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u48	But don't yell. I understand that this helplessness is speaking through you, but I really encourage you to focus on something that will be of any benefit to anyone, not constantly screaming, insulting and trying to humiliate other people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the way you've been going for seven years, the way you've been going to another disaster. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u49	Thank you very much. Now the questions will be asked, in the following order, by Mr Ireneusz Raś and Mr Radosław Lubczyk. The case concerns the CPK railway component. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, on whose behalf Mr Marcin Horała will speak among us. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! For 2 weeks the Parliamentary Club The Polish Coalition has been paying attention to the bad consequences of this model, which you are presenting when it comes to the implementation of the CPK. We talked about threats to regional airports, threats to Poland's natural polycentric and sustainable development model. That also applies to the railroad. Our question at the moment, Minister, concerns this matter. After all, the CPK has left the tested and developed model for the implementation of railway development in Poland contained in the document adopted by the PKP, which has been agreed for many years, for example. establishing the course of high-speed line Y. There were built models concerning how all this is to be connected to transport Poles effectively and quickly. That's what you're walking away from. Ten spokes. But I will also draw attention to issues related to certain relationships between CPK and PKP PLK at the moment. Why do we need two companies to do the same thing? Are we such a rich country that CPK duplicates what PKP has in its resources and what Polish taxpayers put their money on? It's about the engineering money, the consultants. After all, we have a company (the bell) within the PKP. Your final transfer from the Ministry of Infrastructure to the Ministry of Regional Development, in short, will lie about all this and cause us to ask you a question about economy, Minister, and whether it was economic activities for the Polish state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u51	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister Marcin Horala.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In his question, the Member was gracious to include a whole series of the same, which are far from reality. To what extent do they differ from reality? It is enough to refer to what you have mentioned, that is to say, to such an action of PSL Members all over Poland who are concerned about the fact that the acquisition of... Although it's not a takeover either, because I already have PPL surveillance with CPK. This is to be a threat to airports, because PPL will be from these airports allegedly sucking funds for the construction of CPK - while PPL is a minority shareholder in Poland at all airports, except one. The State was also gracious to hold a conference on this subject before the Lublin airport, where PPL does not have any shares at all, so the transfer of supervision of PPL in the case of the airport in Lublin has zero impact. [[It's about the consequences.]] However, in the case of the overwhelming majority of airports in Poland, PPL has such influence as a minority shareholder, i.e. Even if he wanted to do something, majority shareholders may decide differently. With regard to railway lines and the construction of railway lines, the Y line mentioned here is a concept from 10 years ago, created in those legal conditions, also within that settlement network. Urbanisation in Poland is progressing, new areas are covered by different categories of environmental protection and cannot be easily replicated from 10 years ago because they were created in different conditions. I also regret that the PO-PSL government has dropped this project, but since it has already dropped it, there is no return to it, all the analyses and models need to be done again, in these realities as they are now. It is a very serious abuse to say that the CPK project violates the polycentric model of development of the country. It's exactly the opposite, I mean. If small towns are deprived of rail transport or have very poor communication, are deprived of a large number of connections, then for those who want to do business, for young people who want to plan their lives, there is actually one option: move out of there, move to a large metropolitan area. It was a model preferred by the PO-PSL governments. On the other hand, as part of the railway investments of the CPK, i.e. the construction of 2000 km of new railway lines and the modernisation of several thousand further kilometres of railway lines carried out by PKP PLK, and in a moment, a whole number of cities in Poland, a whole range of smaller towns will gain access to the transport system of the country. People will be able to travel not to the airport - this is not the most important statistical Pole currently flies by plane once a year - but to other cities in Poland. Places such as Sieradz, like Płock, like Włocławek, like Ostrołęka, like Łomża, like Hawks-Zdrój will get a whole range of new, fast connections. This will be a huge impetus for development mainly for these smaller centres and for municipalities around them. This is what sustainable development policy is about, in contrast to the polarisation and diffusion policy of the time supported by the PO-PSL coalition. As far as PKP PLK is concerned, PKP PLK is the manager of the existing infrastructure in Poland and specializes in its modernisation. Over PLN 70-80 billion spent on rail, a huge national railway programme, is money for modernisation. In this program there is virtually no construction of new railway lines, and we need the construction of new railway lines, and it is in the standard of KDP. There was no competence for this in Poland, and unfortunately for years no railway lines were built until 2015, after 1989 less than 100 km of new railway lines and several thousand kilometres of closed lines were built. So talking about some centres of competence that were then created to build railway lines, that's not true. There were powers at best to close the line. If we need to create a new expert centre, a new competence centre - because we do not have a KDP in Poland - it could also be created in a new entity, which thanks to this will be concentrated, as a typical construction of the PV type, just on the construction of these lines, and so it happened. In cooperation with the Institute of Railways CPK has developed high-speed rail standards in Poland. It's a question of analysis. It would be very difficult for me to quote them here, because this is the subject. For a longer lecture, but I'll try to do it in an absolutely telegraphic summary. The basis for this is the Passenger Transport Model, for the first time in Poland developed by the expert team an analytical tool for forecasting traffic flows, for analysis on given criteria, thanks to which it is possible to examine how certain elements multi-optionally affect the entire passenger stream in Poland - as a whole, as a system, because that is what was missing before 2015. It all worked in the logic of spending resources to spend 100% appropriations from the Union. So we start a lot of investments - half will be delayed, half will not work out, but at the end there will be a new perspective, it will be enough, if advanced enough, to implement them and spend EU funds, while completely without this system analysis that the CPK has just introduced. This model has already been made available to more than 30 entities in Poland investing in transport infrastructure, infrastructure managers, such as PKP PLK or the General Directorate of National Roads and Motorways, as well as the Łódź Agglomeration Railway, the Centre for EU Transport Projects, marshal offices, the Polish Academy of Sciences or the already mentioned Railway Institute. These analyses show that thanks to the implementation of the investment program CPK the traffic will increase, for example, at Lublin station by 200%, in Jelenia Góra - by 170%, in Nowy Sącz - by 142%, in Sieradz - by 135%, in Skierniewice - by 114%, in Gorzów Wielkopolski - by 108% In Zawiercie - 99%. We are talking about existing stations, because how do we measure the increase in passenger traffic at the passenger station Lomża, which currently does not exist at all? The 60-thousandth city, completely cut off from railway transport, thanks to the implementation of the CPK program, will gain such communication. How to measure the increase in traffic at the Hawks-Zdrój station? It's the same situation. And last but not least: Do CPK investments conflict with PKP PLK investments? That question is wrong at all. Alternatively, PKP PLK's investments could conflict with CPK's investments, because CPK is responsible for the main transport spine, for the basic lines to which the lower lines must join, but of course it is not. I recommend you to note the publicly available resolution of the Council of Ministers - a list of state's investment intentions in the context of the construction of the Central Communication Port, where all the intentions of various entities - CPK, PKP PLK, General Directorates of National Roads and Motorways, Polish Air Navigation Agency, etc. - they're building one coherent system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u53	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Radosław Lubczyk. [[I understand the chicken was before the egg.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a specific question: Please indicate the total cost of implementing the CPK railway component and the information from which CPK will finance it. Minister! You are well aware that today, anyone who makes any investment in companies knows that there is such a thing as the price of the day. With this chasing inflation, with these changes in material prices, I would like to know what the amount is and whether you are planning an amount times x or an additional amount resulting from the purchase of the goods concerned and the construction costs of railway spokes. Another question about what I am very interested in: What is the state of the public consultation on variants of railway lines in individual voivodships, and what are the most common allegations? Today we can read that tomorrow there will be a nationwide protest about railway spokes. Are you talking to these people? Because these protests are because you don't have it consulted or you just don't work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister says it's going to be a connection to other cities. You're talking about a high-speed railroad that's supposed to reach 250 kilometers. And you think she's gonna stop at stations like this small town? I understand that she will stop at these stations where the Members of the Law and Justice will board these trains. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u55	Thank you very much, sir. Again, I ask Minister Martin Horala to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u56	I see that you have learned nothing from the example of the Italian station, which was also so ridiculed by the opposition at that time that trains will stop there. And now the town, and the whole region benefits from it, and thanks to this station, a large stream of passengers appeared on the railroad. And especially the local community has the opportunity to develop, it has the opportunity to travel in its life affairs. To answer the question... Unfortunately, you have rightly noticed that there is such a thing as the price of the day, that, for example, the price of building materials increases dynamically. So if you tell me, for example, what the price of construction works will be in 2032 - because we are talking about the construction of a new transport system of Poland, planning about 2035 - then I can tell you how much the entire investment programme will cost. The sources of funding are obvious, such as for every public infrastructure in Poland, i.e. the Polish budget and EU funds. In the case of budgetary resources, we have now adopted the model of equiping the company with Treasury bonds, bringing these bonds into capital, because this is the most beneficial financially for the state budget. But what model will be the most cost-effective for the budget in 2030 or 2032, this cannot be predicted. In general, in the system of Polish infrastructure investments alongside two existing major programmes, i.e. the national roads and motorways and the national railway programme, the CPK programme will be the third major infrastructure programme in terms of the size of the investments, comparable to those previously mentioned. As far as public consultation is concerned, we are currently working on a technical and environmental study for a whole range of sections. On one they have already ended, on the section Warsaw - Łódź lasted a year, it is also a very smooth pace. But as far as the others are concerned, I would have to discuss them all one at a time, and it probably wouldn't be a day, so maybe I'll just give you an example, and it's more or less similar in others. Łódź-Wroclaw episode. The project included two rounds of public consultation with residents, non-governmental organisations, industry consultations and meetings with local government units. In the first stage, four variants were consulted, surveys were collected, meetings were held. In the course of the comments and taking into account these comments, three new hybrid routes were prepared, consisting of the best assessed fragments of the previous four. A simplified multi-criterial analysis has been carried out for them. These options were then intended to be re-routed to the public consultation. Currently the project team is working on technical and engineering and design solutions for each of these decisions, i.e. where there will be a viaduct, where there will be a tunnel, over such issues. After they have been carried out, there will be a third round of public consultation on the basis of which the investor option will be identified (Dzwonek), which is planned for this section in the third quarter of 2022. For example, only in the second round of these consultations 33 stationary meetings took place, in which more than 2 000 took part. residents, those who wanted to enter the attendance list. It was their will, probably not everyone signed in. In 32 municipalities, i.e. all affected by the investment, 21 809 surveys were collected electronically in this turn. There, all proposals and solutions submitted are considered. The most common problems are those that occur with every investment known in the world to NIMBY syndrome - not in my back yard. We all want good rail connections, good roads, workplaces, factories, but we say: not at my place, just in the village next door, in the commune next door, in the neighborhood, so I can get close so I can get there easily, but not to be a direct neighbor or to be expropriated. Finally, the last question. This is also an example of why experts need to do this. Probably two days ago, an article appeared on one of the portals: CPK will run over the Bolimów Forest, it's like building a railway line through Białowieża. This is a variant that the CPK was not considering at all. However, a group of local self-governments, wanting to push the course out of their communities, unfortunately, came up with a course that destroys protected areas. Unfortunately, such courses are not even worth studying to a greater extent, because they are legally prohibited. Any environmental legislation must also be honoured as much as possible in this process. The process of preparing the investment is very closely parametrized by Polish law. It is anchored in the European Union, in EU law. There are successive stages of the talks, the subsequent stages of the consultation. In conclusion, the last sentence. Let me just say this: for investments that would only fulfil the obligation of law, and in the law also in force under the PO-PSL government, at this moment there would not be any public consultation. All consultations carried out so far by the CPK are excessive and additional, because it is the most transparent and most consulted Polish investment programme in the history of Poland. Suffice to say, at the very stage of the SSL, 160 thousand were considered. comments and surveys. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u57	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. It will be addressed to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on behalf of whom Minister Szymon Szynkowski, aka Sęk, will answer. It concerns the objectives of further strengthening cooperation within the Trilog. Mrs Barbara Dziuk will be the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! International policy is a priority of every country, every country around the world, including Poland. We note the potential for further strengthening cooperation within the Trilog and the prospect of extending this formula. This indicates that this format has proven its usefulness during the 10 years of operation of these meetings. These are meetings. Polish-Romanian-Turkish trilogue. They have been taking place since 2012. The potential is undoubtedly the political and military cooperation of these three countries. These are three countries. They are the pillars of the Eastern NATO flank on the front line of the Alliance and are experiencing direct threats to their security from Russia's aggressive policy. The aim is to strengthen cooperation between allies representing the largest Eastern countries of NATO's flank and to develop a common position on the most important issues of regional security. The Heads of diplomacy of the three countries have given a lot of attention to the security situation in the regions. We welcome the fact that we are jointly seeking opportunities to respond effectively to the difficult security situation in our neighbourhood against Russia's aggression against Ukraine and its implications for Georgia and Moldova. Ministers also referred to the process of strategic adaptation of the North Atlantic Alliance in preparation for the NATO Summit in Madrid. My question, Minister, is this: What is the purpose of further strengthening the cooperation of these countries? What are the prospects? What are the strategies? What can we count on from other countries that are working together (the bell) on national security?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u59	Thank you very much, Member, for asking the question. I ask for an answer from the Minister mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, Mrs. Member! Thank you very much for taking up this question about cooperation within the Trilog, indeed a very important format of cooperation, which this year is celebrating its decade, initiated by Romania, and today playing an important role in Polish foreign policy, because it is an excellent complement to another format - the Bucharest nine, which is a strict format aimed at strengthening the security of our countries, countries of the eastern NATO flank in the region. As far as Romania is part of the Bucharest Nine format, Turkey is not part of this format. Trilog meeting - Polish-Romanian-Turkish cooperation - is a meeting of three large countries of eastern and southern NATO flank. Two of these countries belong to the European Union. In total, these countries are about 140 million inhabitants, more than 1 million km Last year, it was proposed to raise the level of this cooperation also to the level of presidents. The Turkish proposal is that such a meeting, which will be hosted by Turkey, can take place this year. There isn't a specific deadline yet. On the other hand, this format is developing and proof of this is that it is very seriously considered to increase the level of cooperation within this format to the highest level. What is this format for? It is precisely an exchange of views and a dialogue on joint action on how to strengthen security in the region in the current geopolitical situation. So, inevitably, countries such as Ukraine, but also Georgia, even before aggression, are the target of this format and the focus. Foreign ministers of this country are invited to meet this format. Turkey also comes up with a proposal that is being implemented to intensify the cooperation of the diplomatic representations of these three countries with the various international organisations, with NATO, with the OSCE. This format and cooperation also include the mutual increase in the presence of military personnel in NATO structures located in the territory of the three countries. And the last meeting, in May, of the Foreign Ministers. Indeed, as she has already mentioned, the most important issue on the agenda was, of course, the development of events in the context of the crisis in Ukraine, but also the discussion of strategic concepts in the process of preparing for the Madrid Summit and the future of trilateral cooperation within the Trilog. The ministers, of course, made it very clear about the issue of Russian aggression, condemning it, but also assessed the possibility of military, economic and political support for Ukraine. They discussed the issue of the Russian blockade of Ukrainian exports of cereals, oils and fertilizers threatening the food security of the world. They also agreed that Russia must bear responsibility for the crimes committed. At the same time, they discussed the question of strengthening the Alliance's unity in preparation for the next NATO summit, giving priority to collective defence as a key task and strengthening the defence and deterrent attitude, especially on the Eastern flank, in the spirit of close transatlantic cooperation and engagement of the United States in Europe. With regard to the future of this format, which has been asked by the Member, it faces geopolitical threats in the region in such colours. This format is, of course, needed and will certainly be enhanced by cooperation within it. As I have already mentioned, the Turkish side has declared its willingness to host the first Trilog Summit at the level of the Heads of State in the second half of this year, but it is also presented, the proposed vision of developing interparliamental cooperation in the form of meetings at the level of the Presidents of Parliaments or of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Such proposals were made in the autumn of last year. The addition of this parliamentary format would be a natural consequence and complement to the Trilog formula. I am always enthusiastic about strengthening the environment of Polish diplomacy also through parliamentary activity, so of course we count on this parliamentary format to appear as well. In the context of parliamentary cooperation, security issues in both NATO and regional terms would remain at the heart of Trilog's cooperation, with the aim of strengthening the eastern flank. And here the first preliminary proposals are about a possible meeting in this format in 2023, but perhaps there will be space to do so this year in view of the dynamics of the situation and due to the needs. In conclusion, Mr Marshal, honourable Members, I would like to say that the 10-year anniversary of this format shows its usefulness and significant potential for development. Minister Rau at the May meeting already invited his Romanian and Turkish counterparts to make a joint visit to Warsaw. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So the next meeting of foreign ministers, because this is today the essence of the functioning of this format, will be held in Warsaw next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to another question that... Oh, and an additional question, I'm sorry. Mr Jach.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u62	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, Poland participates in many formats and this unusual activity for several years, which has been characterized by Polish diplomacy, within the framework of these less formalized formats such as Group V-4, B-9 (Bucharest Nine) or among others. The Trilog, although many more examples could be mentioned here, requires extraordinary work, coordination, but it also proved its necessity. Minister, I wanted to ask you how you see the role of the Trilogue in the context of this somewhat complicated situation that we have in NATO at the moment concerning the accession of two members (the Bell) to which one of the members of the Trilogue raises reservations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u63	Thank you very much. We'll ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u64	Thank you, Marshal. (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this issue is very important and was also the subject of a May meeting of foreign ministers, which was discussed. At the moment, Poland does not hide its surprise at Turkey's position as regards accession issues, Sweden and Finland's application for accession to the North Atlantic Alliance. Nevertheless, dialogue it is precisely in order to get to know Turkey's reservations better, in order to also work to ensure that these reservations are lifted as soon as possible so that any doubts can be resolved. We are working intensively on this in dialogue with our Turkish partners, not only in the trilogue format, but also in direct contacts at different levels. We are, of course, also in contact with the Turkish Ambassador in Poland. We engage in dialogue at different levels, pointing out to our Turkish partners that it is in the interest of the North Atlantic Alliance as a whole, but in particular at this moment in the interest of being threatened by the North-East countries, so I would say, flanks, i.e. Baltic countries and Poland, to complement the alliance with two new members, and that this will strengthen the potential for deterrent and increase security in the region. We are also counting on Turkey's support. I hope that the coming weeks and months will allow us to reach the point where these reservations and doubts of Turkey will be resolved. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u65	Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed to the next Question Time. They will be asked by Mr Cezary Tomczyk and Mr Marek Rząsa. They are addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, concern fuel prices and profits and high margins of fuel companies, and will be answered by Minister Jan Kanthak, Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets. And now we ask Mr Caesar Tomczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think once Marek Suski said that it is not true that gasoline is expensive all over Poland because it only costs gas stations. This is the perfect example, which shows how you are separated from reality today, how you are separated from what Poles live because you broke off a while ago. The truth is that fuel companies in our country like Lotos, Orlen, energy companies have record profits. These fuel and energy companies have record profits today, so today I would like to ask the Minister a question: who do they have these profits on? In Sweden, Polish oil companies have these profits, in Norway they have these profits or do they have Poles? Because today you're trying to pull every dollar out of the pocket of Poles and Poles just to patch up your budget. And everyone knows that because everyone can stand at Lotus and Orlen gas station today and see what the prices look like. And now note: Why do these prices look like this? Ladies and gentlemen, this is a board that shows - I think we will all see it quite easily on the chart - how the margins of Lotus and Orlen have increased in the last 4 months. So the lotus margin increased by 3300%. Thirty-three times what happened in January. It is today the looting of every driver who drives the Polish roads. Orlen margins - an increase of 1000%. It is today the looting of every driver who drives the Polish roads. In addition, you made a commitment in the National Reconstruction Plan to introduce a new tax, a tax on cars. Are you guys normal? Is there anyone in this courtroom on the right side of these government benches that thinks in any way? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because I don't think so. Every Pole today pays a huge price for your inability. Today, each Pole faces inflation, with an expensive price, with high taxes, which you have raised more than forty times. And I speak today on behalf of the drivers, but also of all those who cannot tell you this, like the postmaster from Pacanów, because you want to throw her out of work, that it has to stop, that expensive and inflation is something that you and Mr Glapiński and the National Bank of Poland have caused, and Poles of this inflation and expensive settlement. Instead of cars that smoke a lot of gallons of gasoline, those limos you got into and forgot. God's world, there will be another means of transport called wheelbarrow, and you know what politicians do on wheelbarrows. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u67	Thank you very much. I now ask Minister Jan Kanthak to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! A successful happening, colleagues recorded, you'll have the opportunity to put it on social media, to boast that you're a busy Member... [[Voice from the room: Specifically, in particular, Minister. Why do margins grow so much?]] ...but these are just the Himalayas of hypocrisy and hypocrisy in your performance. [[Voice from the hall: Pancakes, Pancakes, Minister.]] Mr. Speaker! Puppets? You're gonna calm down, 'cause you're gonna come out like that Koziołek Matołek from Pacanowa.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u69	Minister, excuse me, will you? First of all, I would very much like to ask all Members who, in fact, prevent the Minister from saying anything to stop their emotions. And I ask the Minister not to judge Members' speeches, but to refer to the questions he has asked. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Marshal!]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Jan Kanthak: Well, I am already referring, Mr Marshal, as the Ministry of State Assets has already referred four times to the issue of fuel prices that we are dealing with not only in Poland, not only in the EU, but also worldwide. Obviously - everyone is aware of this - this is due to the geopolitical situation and the fact that Putin caused war, declared war on Ukraine. That is best borne out by the numbers, ladies and gentlemen. If we consider that Russia was responsible for 11 million barrels of oil a day, and now Poland, Germany and the whole EU decide not to use this oil, then naturally and clearly prices are rising. This is the price of our security and really sometimes the political class should be responsible and should like one husband stand in the truth and say: we know that prices are high... [[Voice from the room: So what's the profit of Orlen?]] ...we know that these costs are unfortunately borne by the citizens, but the truth is that this price has its value, its value of security and its independence from Russia. [[What about Lotus and Orlen's margins?]] Mr. Speaker! Don't yell, I'd really like to talk to you about that. I would like to invite you cordially, because if this is not due to the bad will of Mr Tomczyk and the Members of the Civic Platform, but simply out of ignorance, I would like to invite you to such hourly tutoring in the Ministry of State Activities, which we will explain... [[The margins.]] ...what is the model refinery margin. [[Voice from the hall: People need to be explained who are watching.]] Mr. Speaker! We'll explain, of course. [[You're on the stand. There you go.]] Therefore, thank you for the opportunity to speak today and to talk about the model refinery margin, which is such a benchmark, is an algorithm that has been in operation for many, many years and has not been changed in any way. What's the point, ladies and gentlemen? This is due to the fact that at the same benchmark, the price of oil, which was due to the price of Ural oil, is taken into account in this algorithm. If Mr Tomczyk accepts an invitation to the Ministry... [[Again?]] ...we will show how the price of the barrel of Ural oil is shaped compared to the price of the barrel of Brent oil, which is now being purchased in connection with Putin's actions. That's the first factor. The second factor is the question of the dollar-to-dollar value. At the outbreak of the war, February 24th, the dollar was 4,13, 8 March was 4,57, which is 14.5% higher. And as of today, it's 4.27. So we see that this is a factor that also affects the price of fuel transactions. Let us really not be hypocritical, let us see what prices are in the European Union. In Poland there is the cheapest diesel in the whole European Union, and when it comes to petrol, we are, it seems, the second or third country of the European Union, where there are the lowest petrol prices. We're talking about the government. What tools does the government have to shape fuel prices? The kind Donald Tusk didn't know. He said if someone showed me the buttons to push, I'd push them. [[Voice from the hall: Jesus Mary. And if there was fuel in the government...]] Donald Tusk, just like he didn't know where the 500+ money was buried, he didn't know it, neither did he know where the buttons were. We found the buttons. We have reduced both excise duty and VAT on fuel. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr Rutnicki, I see, is very... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] A little peace, sir, really. There aren't many people in this room today, you shouldn't be given emotion, there's no reason for you to be here at hours. 11.30 to be so hyperactive. [[Voice from the room: Why, you tell us why there are so high margins.]] But if you're talking about prices, then the countries of the European Union I'm calling... Let's compare what it looks like in the neighbouring countries of Poland. Gasoline in Latvia - 9,45, Lithuania - 9,32, Germany - 8,93 . And if you are asking how this relates to the purchase price and how much Poles earn, Mr... [[The voice from the hall: But the margins, the margins.]] ...then let's recall the statement from the ŻSowa and friends, when the Minister of Treasury recalled Prime Minister Donald Tusk's statement, who said after the 2011 elections: now the price of fuel can be already 7 zloty, could be 7 zloty. [[Voice from the room: You're lying again. What about the margins?]] And let's remind you what the wages were then. 5 zlotys an hour? 1650 PLN minimum national? The situation, ladies and gentlemen, is obviously not easy and is not good for the citizens, but if it were not for the Government of Law and Justice, if you were in charge, the prices would no longer be on the pylons at petrol stations, because it would be above 10 PLN. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What about margins? No response to margins.]] And now we have another person asking the question. It is Mr Marek Rząsa.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We heard the answer. It was about everything and nothing. It was about Tusk again, about Putin, about the war, about everyone around you being guilty, just not this government. And the grocery store, the galloping inflation... [[Putin, please.]] ...killing borrowers, raising interest rates, superb fuel prices, raised basically every day - this is the picture of today's Poland ruled by the PiS. Actually, it's not government, it's prostitution. On the other hand, it's a waste of billions of money. But the Poles see it, and they know very well that you are simply ripping their wallets, their wallets. When you were in opposition, you had solutions for everything. Everyone remembers Mrs Szydło's words, Mr Kaczyński's, Mr Błaszczak's words when they stood at gas stations and said what they could do to reduce the price of fuel, which did not cost even 5 PLN. Today, when you rule, even your own ideas, even your own solutions, you cannot implement them, implement them, and you allow Orlen to apply even (the bell) belt margins. Today we didn't hear a word about the margin, and that's what we asked. [[Lie!]] The question was simple: Why are there big margins? Instead of buying out advertisements in which you want to explain to Poles why fuels are so expensive, just lower the prices of these fuels. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir. Bravo, sir!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u71	You're welcome, Minister. [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, Minister. Excuse me. Do you participate in the discussion in an organized or happening manner? [[Excuse me, Marshal. Happying, I'm sorry.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have really - I've already mentioned it - a festival of hypocrisy. Now it turns out that inflation in the world is probably also the responsibility of the President of Glapiński and the President of Jarosław Kaczyński. Don't be ridiculous. [[He answers in Poland. We are in Poland, sir.]] As Mr Rząsa asked about prices, I can also ask: How is it that, since there are such high prices in Poland, the inhabitants of Germany, the Czech Republic and other countries neighbouring Poland come to Poland to fill up the fuel in Poland? What's it like? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[In Poland we are in Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u73	Excuse me, Minister. [[Voice from the room: The question about margins.]] Dear Members, this may cool the emotions if I say that our deliberations are being listened to by young people from the 8th High School of Gliwice, which has arrived at the invitation of Mr Jarosław Gonciarz. Surely she should be welcomed very warmly. [[Applause]] [[We'd like to know where these margins come from.]] I also have a warm request for these students to make a good impression from this trip. So I'm asking you to cool your emotions. You're welcome, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Jan Kanthak: As far as the margin is concerned, I have already explained that the algorithm for margin, model margin, not real, Mr President, has been functioning for many, many years, even in your time, so do not really look ridiculous by criticizing an algorithm that was adopted many years ago. [[We have to change.]] And you're trying to use it to attack the government. But you understand the difference between a model and a real one, and that if the price of a barrel is taken into account, as I mentioned, Ural coming from Russia, and now Brent is bought, which is about $30 more expensive for a barrel than the one that is taken into account at the margin, then this margin will travel with reality and it is not equivalent to the real margin that exists, because the real margin is the trade secret of the company, the company? The margin also does not take into account important criteria which have a huge impact on its amount, such as the prices of CO allowances It's worth emphasising it all the time and expressing the surprise that... Can you please silence the conversation down there? Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Jan Kanthak: ...Polish Members accuse the rulers of the fact that companies of the Treasury are profiting. It's really unusual. If high school students listen to us, it is worth paying attention to the fact that the Civic Platform is complaining to the government that the Treasury company is profitable. [[The profits... they're ripping off the parents of these kids. Your companies...]] What's the difference? In one year... Mr President, you really are so hyperactive that I am concerned about your health at this hour. [[People are angry. Don't worry about my health.]] Mr President, PLN 11 billion in profit in one year compared with PLN 3 billion in seven years of your governments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] This is a really perfect example. And if you think that the sale of fuel at petrol stations and the overall sale at fuel stations have an impact on Orlen's profits, I would like to tell you - I also invite you to tutoring - that in the case of Orlen's profits, the sale of fuel is only 13%. the share in the total profits achieved by Orlen as Orlen achieves profits mainly from refinery and petrochemical activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Minister, if you don't mind, there will still be a brief correction, because you have repeatedly referred to Mr Caesar Tomczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u74	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Minister! I think it's worth mentioning, for starters, that behind Tusk, Minister, gasoline cost 5,19 and for Kaczyński it costs 8,30. That's the difference. So the Orlen strategy you were talking about is something like this: the dollar is getting stronger - the fuel on Orlena is expensive, the dollar is losing value - the fuel on Orlena is expensive, the price of the barrel of oil is rising - the fuel on Orlena is expensive, the price of the barrel of oil is falling - the fuel on Orlena is expensive. I am indeed the one who congratulates (the bell) such a story on Orlena and Lotus. Last sentence, Marshal. The Minister didn't say anything about the margins that Orlen and Lotus set. 3300% is the increase in margins in Orlena and Lotus, the profits of Orlen and Lotus are the highest in history. Minister, whose expense are these profits? [[Poles.]] After all, once again, they are not at the expense of some abstract being, people who live somewhere in South America. These are profits earned on Poles who pay at petrol stations today huge amounts for petrol. The last graph, because you like data. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, petrol in Europe, in the European Union in the last four months, where has it increased most? In Poland. [[In Poland. Yes.]] Because in Poland the cost of gasoline, the price of gasoline increased by 35%. That's the first score. As you are in the first place when it comes to inflation, in the first place when it comes to loan instalments, interest rates, costs, and there you are in the first place, but there you should not be in the first place. [[Leaders.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u75	Thank you very much, sir. Next question...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u76	You should be at the forefront of economic growth as regards the place in the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Bravo, Mr!]] [[Leaders.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u77	Thank you very much. The next question will be addressed to the Minister of Funds and Regional Policy and will be asked by Mr Mariusz Trepek and Mr Marek Polak. The question concerns the implementation of innovation by the Ministry... by small and medium-sized enterprises, I apologize. I now ask Mr Mariusz Trepka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u78	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The competition for the implementation of innovation by small and medium-sized enterprises is aimed at micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that want to increase their competitiveness in the market by implementing an innovative product or implementing an innovative technological process. Importantly, innovation does not have to mean inventing a product from the beginning, often it is enough to find new applications for already existing materials or technologies. Innovation is available for every company. Thanks to the grant, entrepreneurs will be able to finance each stage of the investment, from market analysis, through the purchase of licences, adjustment work, to the acquisition of the necessary machinery and equipment. Minister! Since when can companies apply for the competition? What European measures have already been passed on in this area? What changes do I make in this edition of the competition? Until when will the companies have to do their job so that they don't lose their funding? How much is the maximum amount of the grant? And what's the budget of the contest? Continuation of the question - colleague Marek Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u79	I would like to ask Mr Mark Polak now.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u80	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! In order for entrepreneurs to be able to carry out projects by the end of 2023, all the administrative decisions required will have to be attached to the applications, and the time to submit applications is not more than 3.5 weeks, because from 12 July to 5 August. And I would like to ask if, according to the Ministry, this is a sufficient period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u81	Thank you. Now we will ask Minister Małgorzata Jarosinska-Jedynak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Youth! Thank you so much for that question. The competition, which has been announced, the implementation of innovation by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, concerns the Eastern Poland programme for the 2014-2020 perspective and has some relevance for time-limits. As regards the first question, since when companies can apply for the competition, the competition was announced on 31 May and since then entrepreneurs have the opportunity to familiarize themselves with the competition documentation, the application application application and the required documents necessary to submit the application together with the application. The selection of applications, i.e. already physical submission of applications by entrepreneurs, begins on 12 July this year. and ends on 5 August 2022. As regards the implementation of this action, i.e. the implementation of innovation by SMEs, 800 million PLN has been allocated to these activities since the start of the programme's launch to date. In general, ladies and gentlemen, this competition was announced after 2 years of its absence as part of the announcements. We are at the end of the financial perspective 2014-2020. In accordance with Union rules, all expenditure to be eligible must be incurred by 31 December 2023. As savings have emerged in the Eastern Poland programme and we have the resources that we can use for certain actions under this programme, we have decided to allocate the envelope to these activities, to implement innovation by SMEs, in order to strengthen the entrepreneurship sector that has been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and by the war in Ukraine. So we want entrepreneurs to be able to implement these proposals. Only that, given this time, which is the moment until when expenditure is eligible, I will remind you, 31 December 2023, we want this competition to be such a quick and efficient competition. So, first of all, we give up building activities so that we don't have to put up production halls, build buildings, just so that entrepreneurs in this competition can buy machines, the equipment necessary to implement innovation in their companies, so that they can make it to 31 December 2023. We have also improved the process of submitting documents, i.e. there are less administrative burdens for entrepreneurs, also in order to be able to make investments and fit into the end of 2023. First of all, the selection criteria in terms of the level of innovation have been relaxed. This does not have to be regional innovation, it is sufficient that it will be company-level innovation. The requirements concerning the company's affiliation to the co-operation relationship and the quantity of documentation required to provide this condition have been reduced. The issue of obtaining a loan for a given investment is mandatory at the moment of signing the agreement with the applicant and not the submission of documents. Documents relating to all permits, administrative decisions must be submitted at the moment of the application for funding, so that they are prepared investments, ready to be carried out, so that later there is no problem with moving this deadline until the end of 2023, because it is inviolable. These are committee requirements and there is no possibility of extending this term. We also reduced the value of applications for funding. The maximum value of the financing that the entrepreneur can obtain is PLN 10 million. As far as this maximum grant amount is concerned, it is PLN 10 million. The budget for the competition for the moment amounts to PLN 30 million, but given that we are at the closure stage of the programme, there are savings in various other actions which are implemented on a smaller scale. For example, applicants do not sign the contract, they do not sign the agreement, so there are still savings under the programme and we will increase the budget of this call, so we assume that, in addition to this 30 million, even a second amount of funds will be available to support this action. So we want to select projects to be co-financed, create a reserve list so that when savings occur, we can sign contracts with other applicants who will be selected. Is this sufficient time - December 2023? If the beneficiaries think about their projects, if they are such projects as we think about, i.e. the purchase of equipment, the purchase of machinery, the completion of the company, the necessary small investments in enterprises - yes, then they will be in time. As I say, it is an inviolable term, on 31 December 2023 it is an inviolable term. 12 Member States asked the European Commission to extend the n+3 rule by 1 year, i.e. 2023 to the end of 2024. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the time being, the Commission does not agree to this extension, so 31 December 2023 is the deadline. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. And another question will be asked by Mariusz Trepek.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u84	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you very much for this information, because this is what we need for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. On the other hand, from the details that the Minister was talking about, I remembered one: 10 million - the maximum amount of funding for one company. But if these companies report much more and really have interesting projects, unfortunately this amount will have to be smaller. How much do you think this is gonna shut down? Because with the amount of 10 million that the Ministry currently has, only three companies could receive this grant. So that I would ask for more detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u85	Thank you very much. And the Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u86	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! 10 million PLN is the maximum value of funding. We assume that with these assumptions of the competition, which are presently - that is, we do not finance the activities related to the infrastructure of buildings, halls, will only be related to the purchase of machinery, equipment necessary for the entrepreneur - this value of 10 million will not be achievable by entrepreneurs when it comes to applying for funding. We hope that these smaller proposals, for 1 million, 2 million, 5 million, will be an advantage. Like I said, this 30 million is the savings that we found, but we're gonna do everything we can to double this allocation for the contest. Maybe even more can be done, depending on the savings that will be made. And we need to have a competition decided at the moment so that, as part of the release of funds, we can add them to this competition all the time, so that we do not return money under the Polish Eastern European programme to the Commission, only use them as much as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u87	Thank you very much, Minister. We approach further questions that are addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. These include the introduction of solutions that adequately protect the security of vehicle registration evidence. You will be asked questions by Mr Jarosław Gonciarz and will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Rafał Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The Act of 22 November 2018 on public documents contains provisions laying down special requirements for minimum safeguards to be held by documents issued by public authorities. Registration documents do not currently comply with statutory requirements. In order to improve their security, it is necessary to change the technology in which the document is carried out. According to the provisions of the Act, semi-synthetic paper should be chemically protected, and in ultraviolet light it should not show luminescence. I would like to ask if the Ministry intends to prepare itself for the implementation of solutions resulting in an increase in the security of car registration evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u89	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u90	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! As regards the very important question you have asked, and in general the security issue of public documents, I would like to inform you that as regards the competence of the Minister of Infrastructure in relation to the article. 73. Point 1 of the Act of 22 November 2018 on public documents was issued a regulation of the Minister of Infrastructure of 5 May 2018, which amended the Regulation on registration and marking of vehicles and the requirements for registration plates. This regulation entered into force on 16 May this year. Until 12 July this year. transitional provisions will apply and from that date comprehensive provisions will apply. This regulation introduced a new model registration document and a temporary permit, i.e. public documents of category one. The minimum security requirements set out in the Public Documents Act have been taken into account in the models and descriptions of the registration document and the time permit. The amendments contained in our regulation are in line with the recommendations of the Commission on public documents, so that this issue mentioned by Mr Gonciusz, that the registration documents currently do not comply with the statutory requirements, will be resolved by this regulation, in a full way from 12 July this year, because that is what the law which I referred to earlier required us to do. In addition, I would like to inform you that the amendment which takes into account the minimum safeguards laid down in the Act on public documents has also undergone a model of professional registration document. Regulation of the Minister of Infrastructure of 26 April this year. amending the Regulation on the professional registration of vehicles, the markings applied and the fees associated with the professional registration of vehicles have been in force since 1 May. As regards the registration of the vehicles listed in Article. 73. 3 of the Act - The Law on Road Traffic, I inform you that the Minister responsible for the model registration of vehicles of the Armed Forces is the Minister of National Defence, that is the jurisdiction of the Ministry of National Defence, while as regards the model registration of vehicles of other services, this property is assigned to the Minister of Home Affairs. Finally, I would like to explain that the Minister responsible for the Public Documents Act is the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u91	Thank you very much, sir. Again, we ask you to ask Mr Jarosław Goncier a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u92	Thank you. Minister in the first part Very comprehensively answered the question I asked, but in order for tradition to be met, I would like to ask whether the Ministry is analysing the need for changes with regard to other public documents so that they meet the requirements of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u93	Thank you very much. We ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Yeah, we're planning this kind of change. On the basis of the Public Documents Act, we are obliged to make such safeguards in Category 3 documents by 12 July 2024. With regard to Category 1 and Category 2 documents, we have already done so that this case is settled. On the other hand, for Category 3 documents according to the Act we have 5 years from the date of entry into force of these provisions, i.e. 5 years from 12 July 2019 in order to settle this matter, so precisely 12 July 2024 the Category 3 documents will have to have the safeguards indicated in the Act. And, of course, the Ministry of Infrastructure will do this with due care, simply doing so in terms of our properties, not only to ensure that the situation is in line with the rules of law, but above all - that we are sure that public documents are secured in the maximum way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u95	Thank you very much, Minister. Further questions will be asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak and Mr Barbara Bartus. They will concern system solutions and support instruments for Polish seniors prepared by the Government of Law and Justice. You will answer these questions by Minister Stanisław Szwed. Then I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The family and seniors are at the heart of the attention and actions of the Government of Law and Justice. Another term we are preparing and implementing system solutions, instruments whose idea is to support and improve the situation of older people, pensioners, including people with disabilities. I'm just gonna name a few programs, like... Senior+ programme, which significantly improved access for older people, especially from rural areas, to homes, senior clubs offering the opportunity to activate, spend time together, share passions and experiences, or, for example, a programme on free medicines for people after 75 years of age, as well as a statutory guarantee of an annual 13th pension, a significant valorisation of pensions or paid last year and planned for the current year of 14 pensions. In comparison, as regards the support that we provide to our seniors, the situation is that there were only 99 homes and senior clubs in 2015 and there are currently 1068 such units. There's a real difference here. With regard to issues related to the level of financial support for Polish seniors, it was only PLN 3.6 billion in 2015 and PLN 36 billion last year, 2021. We know that in this year this support will be even higher, even more significant, this amount will be increased. Minister, I would kindly ask you to answer the question: What kind of financial support was planned for Polish seniors, pensioners and pensioners this year? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u97	Thank you very much. We ask the Minister. Everyone was worried there was no Mrs Barbara Bartus, but she arrived in time. [[I'm late, but I'm getting there.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this question about the senior policy pursued by the Government of Law and Justice. I think these last few years are a good time for pensioners and pensioners. The actions we take are designed to help our pensioners live better and more dignified lives. Maybe I'll start with a material issue, or financial support, because it's extremely important. Madam President has already mentioned this, but maybe I will further develop this issue. I am talking about solutions that have recently entered into force, i.e. on the one hand, a pension without tax up to PLN 2.5, i.e. a tax-free amount of up to PLN 30,000. Over 70% Pensioners will benefit fully and 90% To some extent. So this is the first good solution that will cause some pensioners to benefit, it's even more than 2,000. PLN per year. On the other hand, there is also a solution for people who have a pension higher than 2.5 thousands. zł. This is a reduction in PIT from 17% to 12% , i.e. a further reduction with regard to the measures. And that, I think, is a very good solution. To this we must attach these solutions, which are written in our laws. The first one is a solution that somehow fights inflation, it is about the valorization of pension benefits. Let me remind you that this year's valorization is higher than could be due to the generally accepted standards we have adopted. We have increased the rate of valorisation in terms of wage rates to 63%, which is the first time in history we have this rate of wage increases, which meant that the rate of valorisation, although originally it was to be 5.7%. He was at 7%. This led to more than PLN 3.5 billion of additional funds to pensioners from 1 March. The funds we have spent on valorisation amounted to PLN 18.4 billion in total. It is also worth noting how the minimum pension has increased in recent years, because I will remind you that in 2015 the lowest pension was PLN 880. As far as this year is concerned, this is PLN 1338.44, which is more than 50% increase in the lowest pension, which shows a path for us to ensure pension security for our pensioners and pensioners. Of course, it is worth recalling, because everyone knows this very well, especially retired people. These are additional benefits which do not come directly from the pension system, in the form of the thirteenth pension, which is already registered in our legal order, as well as the fourteenth pension that was last year, will also be this year. The Sejm has already passed the relevant law, which is now in the Senate. I will remind you that as regards the thirteenth pension, it covers all insured persons, those who are insured in the Social Insurance Institution, in the KRUS, have pre-retirement benefits, compensatory benefits or uniform benefits. In total, the funds we spend on the thirteenth pension this year amount to PLN 13 100 million. The lowest 13th pension is also PLN 1338.44. It is worth noting that both the 13th pension and the 14th pension are exempt from tax. The net amount per hand is at the level of PLN 1218, i.e. higher than as if the tax was deducted. So that's another good solution too. Fourteenth pension on similar terms as thirteenth pension, except that we have introduced a limit on the amount of entitlement to the full lowest pension, i.e. the amount of PLN 2900 pension benefit. The cash mechanism will then be used for a zloty, and if someone has a pension of over PLN 4188, he will not benefit from it. Nearly 9 million pensioners will benefit from the 14th pension. Let me remind you that the 13th pension was paid in April. The first payment of the 14th pension will take place on 25 August, and the 14th pension will also be paid in the next stages of September's pension payments. It is worth noting that both the 13th and the 14th pensions are not included in the income entitlement to other benefits. I have already mentioned the tax, both the thirteenth and the fourteenth pensions are exempt from tax. Madam President mentioned this, but it is still worth recalling that in 2020 total the valorisation of the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions will be almost PLN 43 billion. If we took only the last three years, this would be the amount of over 116 billion zlotys, these are the funds that have gone to our pensioners. Time is running out, but I would like to mention the cover supplement, which is contained in the so-called. Anti-inflationary shield. We set aside over PLN 4 billion for this. Those who have the most difficult situation, including senior farms, can benefit from this. There is also an additional component for people who sunbathe (The Bell) with coal or other energy carriers. So much for telegraph short, because, of course, the programs we're doing are very much, but the time has passed. I will possibly fill in the following questions from your Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u99	The question will now be asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u100	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Thank you very much for the initial response in which you spoke about restoring the dignity of seniors, restoring the dignity of pensioners and about the valorizations that the current government has been pursuing since 2015. In general, valorisation is linked to our law of previous governments, these governments in the years 2005-2007. Let me remind you that the beginnings of the 21st century were tragic: very low values. But it was the result of what the government then adopted. Then there was the government of the SLD, the Left. Although PSL had no longer helped, the Platform helped, and the answer was that the annual advantages had been abolished. Only once every three years did retired people receive them. It is worth reminding, for today, as we live better and better, we forget. I wanted to ask you about one very, very important solution - about my pension I have 4+. This is the first solution introduced by us in the last term, but in my opinion it is very important, because it is not only, you can say, an element of childhood, but after all, those women who worked, once gave birth to Poland, for us, so that someone would work for our pensions, four or more children. How many people, how many women, or not just women, have benefited from this benefit? Are new applications submitted, and what amounts are they, as the Minister has these data, that are being allocated for this purpose? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u101	Thank you very much, Member. We ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u102	Thank you so much for these complementary questions. Of course, before I answer these questions, I will also talk about the two programmes that you also mentioned to the President. I will also talk about the Active+programme for NGOs. We have allocated PLN 40 million this year to support the activity of older people, because in this material part of the work is also very important to keep our seniors active. The second programme, which is also aimed at older people, is the Senior+ Ż programme, aimed at local governments to create both senior and senior day homes. We've already got over 1,000 units like this. In 2015, these units were 99, which is a very large increase in this respect. These programs are very popular among seniors because they allow them to spend their time actively. I also think that there is a very good programme, which was mentioned by the President, concerning parental supplementary benefit, which is the programme, by agreement saying that I have 4+¿. This is a program that is aimed at these parents - the programme also includes fathers - who have completed their retirement age, raised at least four children, but have not acquired pension rights, e.g. because they raised children or acquired the right to retirement, but to a lesser extent than the lowest pension. And this solution, which we have introduced, provides these people with the lowest benefit, i.e. in this case the amount of PLN 1388,44. From the last data that we have on the number of people who have received the award decision and have already paid these funds, this figure is 67 000. Of course, this generally applies to mothers, but there are several hundred fathers who benefit from this program. In total we paid out because the programme entered into force on 1 March 2019, 1400 million PLN. And like I said, these are the two mechanisms. One for which the lowest pension is paid in full, and if someone has a lower pension, he has a supplement to this lowest pension. So these people have the means to live. I will mention one more solution, which is addressed to people who are independent, so-called. 500+ for independents. More than 790 000 have already benefited from this scheme. persons. In total, we have allocated over PLN 3 billion, PLN 3.5 billion, which is another power supply for those who are unable to live independently. And this is where we pay for their lowest benefit. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think this is also a very well-accepted solution that helps these people live a decent life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u103	Thank you very much. The applause has certainly been noted. We proceed to the next question, which is also the last at this point. Mr Waldemar Andzel and Mrs Gabriela Masłowska will be asking about pension changes for farmers. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Anna Gembicka, will answer. And I ask Mr Waldemar Andzel to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Agriculture is one of the most important sectors of our economy. The Government of Law and Justice has taken milestones for the safety of Polish agriculture and farmers. Revolutionary changes have taken place in the agricultural pension system. Please provide details of these changes. Please also indicate what Polish agricultural areas look like today in relation to other countries. I would also like to ask you to show how agricultural pensions have changed with KRUS over the last 10 years. How many farmers are currently receiving this benefit? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u105	Thank you very much, sir. Minister Anna Gembicka, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u106	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! After 30 years of the provision in the Farmers' Social Insurance Act, which ordered the farmer who retired if he wanted to receive a full benefit, our government proposed changes regarding the waiver of this condition. From now on, a farmer who retires no longer has to stop farming. This is the fulfillment of one of the promises made to farmers in the Law and Justice programme. It was also one of the postulates in our programme for the Polish village. It is worth noting that these changes are clearly beneficial for farmers. I think that this is borne out, for example, by the fact that during the parliamentary debate, including in the Senate, all the parliamentarians voted in favour of this law. The problem regarding the condition of cessation of agricultural activity in retirement has been, in particular, constantly raised in recent years by individual farmers, by the agricultural authorities, by trade unions and agricultural organisations, of course also by parliamentarians. This requirement was incomprehensible to many farmers, because in no other profession there was such a necessity that when you retire, if you wanted to receive it in full, you would have to sell, sell or pass it on to someone. It can therefore be said that this is the introduction of a certain historical justice towards farmers. In addition to this, the amendment of the law that has already been passed, signed by the President and soon enters into force, has introduced changes to the rules that have been adversely affected by the problems for farmers in their daily functioning. These were issues related to, for example, the fugitives of insurance titles. As a result, after this change there will be no situations where they were forced, you can say, breaks in the social insurance of farmers, because the farmers from the vending machine went to insurance in the ZUS. It caused such situations that sometimes these periods of insurance were missing. As regards these co-conspirators, these are situations such as the use of an integration benefit or a scholarship during the period of training, internship or professional training of adults to which they have been assigned by the district labour office, a scholarship during the period of training, internship or professional training of adults to which they have been assigned by entities other than the district labour office, active military service as a non-professional soldier, excluding soldiers serving as candidates. It is also about those who serve as a substitute. In addition, the new arrangements allow for the addition of periods of military service as regards the amount of the pension. This is the amount of 1% basic benefit for each year of service. In addition to this, a further change, which was also requested by agricultural organisations, is to enable the KRUS to take action to improve its health. also agricultural pensioners. The aim is to enable them to benefit from medical rehabilitation in rehabilitation facilities, as well as to allow insured persons who are carers of disabled persons to be rehabilitated to rehabilitation centres. As far as these new regulations are concerned, they will be around 130 000 in the near future. persons. These are those who will benefit from the possibility of continuing their agricultural activity when they retire and those who will also have periods of military service added to their pension. In addition, as regards the total number of recipients, together with the pensioners, we have over 1 million pensions alone. That's about 780,000. And what I think is very important - these changes I have said about, that is, you can say, the first part of the change, because in the next amendment we want to change the rules on the valorisation of pension benefits. We know that this year's postulate was very often raised here. In addition, together with the family ministry, we are working on regulating the convergence of pension rights in the general system and in the agricultural system. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u107	You're welcome. Another question, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u108	Minister! By using your presence, I would like to ask you about the situation of organic farmers. The increase in labour costs in recent years, especially in recent months, and the fact that farmers do not have their own distribution channels because they often own small farms, especially in Lublin, which have recently started organic production - this makes farmers have problems with cost-effectiveness, maintenance and continuation of production, especially since organic farming subsidies have long been unchanged. Does the Government of Law and Justice consider the situation in organic farming, which for us, for Polish agriculture, is a great opportunity? The point is that farmers do not withdraw from this production. Does the government have proposals for organic farmers to continue this production? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u109	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Ms Anna Gembicka, is responsible. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u110	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as profitability in agriculture is concerned in general, we are really taking a lot of action on this issue. One of these activities is the establishment of a Polish food group in recent times. Another issue, further options on the issue of increasing cost-effectiveness, are also linked to the proposals contained in the Strategic Plan for the Common Agricultural Policy. Here, of course, there are also specific requirements for the European Commission to increase the area of organic farms and thus also to increase the amount of aid. Recently, in the Sejm, we have also examined the Organic Farming Act, which is the implementation of EU legislation on the functioning of organic farming. We are also working very hard to ensure that in the National Plan for Reconstruction - these funds intended for reconstruction of Polish processing, I will remind you, there is PLN 4.5 billion - there are also preferences for organic farmers. The point is that this percentage of funding is a little bit bigger, so that it's a little bit bigger to encourage this production. The point is that it is not only the production of basic products, but also to enable the development of processing, e.g. in the context of, for example, agricultural retail trade. Of course, these grants will be divided into several groups, so that both smaller and larger players will have these opportunities. As far as the National Reconstruction Plan and this action are concerned, I will immediately say that we, as a resort, are ready to run these measures in very fast mode. We have an initial timetable with the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, so organic farmers will be able to obtain support as much as possible in this respect. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u111	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the regulation of the Minister of Health of 3 June 2022 amending the regulation on the detailed scope of the medical event processed in the information system and the manner and time limits for the transmission of this data to the Medical Information System, i.e. the creation of the so-called. the pregnancy register, which was requested by the Left Coalition Club. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants or Members may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 1 minute. That is what we will agree if you all want to be within the time allowed for this point. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. I now ask that the representative of the applicants, Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are asking a question about the pregnancy register, a regulation of the Minister of Health on the inclusion in the Medical Information System of Polek pregnancy data. We will probably hear from the Minister that it is a simple, technical solution, the introduction of a tool that will facilitate the provision of better medical services to pregnant women. And indeed - the pregnancy register is a tool and that is why it is so important to ask what it will actually be used for, because any tool can be used for a good or bad purpose. You can chop firewood with an axe, but you can also hurt it. It's the same with the pregnancy registry. It can be used to strengthen the protection of pregnant women, but in the hands of the power that has given women hell, it has limited the right to legal abortion, it has deprived of emergency contraception, this tool, unfortunately, can prove very dangerous. Because the law doesn't work in a vacuum, the context matters. As it matters whether the census of the population in Crimea is carried out by Russia or Ukraine, it matters whether the register of pregnancy is introduced by Denmark or El Salvador, Sweden or Poland under the rule of Law and Justice. [[This is a massacre. It's a disgrace what you're telling me.]] There is a difference in whether the pregnancy register is carried out by the welfare state, which gives women the right to choose whether the state is oppressive towards women, with almost a total ban on abortion. Unfortunately, Poland under the rule of law and justice is a country against oppressive women. And this oppression, your oppression, is feared by young Polish women, on behalf of whom we ask: Why do prosecutor Zbigniew Ziobra have access to information about the pregnancies of Polish women? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u113	Further part of the speech - Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, Lewis. [[Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Fak: It was me.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Mrs. Daria Gosek-Pocket, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We live in a country where the judgment of the Constitutional Court has tightened up already very restrictive anti-abortion rules, especially since although the pseudo-Constitution Tribunal theoretically stated that it is possible to terminate pregnancy when it poses a risk to the life or health of a woman or where there is a reasonable suspicion that it is the result of a prohibited act, the prosecution of Minister Ziobra has a different approach. Proof of this is what happened in Bialystok. After the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal on abortion, the prosecution examined whether an abortion was carried out in the hospital and why. Patient data has been requested. It was only media reports and the pressure of the public that the investigators gave up further action. And you gave the minister access to sensitive medical records of a patient, a prosecutor who's willing to pursue women who desperately want to go abroad, so that, under decent, safe conditions, they can perform abortion procedures, a prosecutor who is ready to pursue their loved ones, a partner, a colleague. And this is the reality of life in Poland. It is no wonder that the lack of trust in you, fear of the prosecution, lack of faith that anyone will help in this situation makes the fear of women becoming pregnant in Poland grow.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u115	Thank you. Further follow - Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u116	Yesterday, the Sejm decided once again that he would not give the prosecutors a seven-day deadline for an administrative decision to terminate the rape pregnancy. The raped women don't report being pregnant with their torturer because prosecutors make these decisions after 3-6 months because of the deadlines for their investigation, preventing legal termination of these pregnancies. These injured Polish women are forced by the Polish state to commit illegal acts, saying: do your own thing, and now it will monitor them. Not the rapist, the D.A.'s gonna come to the raped woman, asking what you did with the pregnancy. You also strike at mothers whose children would be born with fatal flaws, those Polish women, for whom love and compassion are more important than the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, those women who have been affected by tragedy, and their waiting children will be sentenced to suffering and death, because these Polish women interrupt pregnancy before the fetuses and children begin to feel pain. Now these women will be under surveillance. In the moment of the greatest tragedy of your life, you will send a policeman asking what you've done with a fetus with a fatal defect. And the third group of women - women who miscarried their child, you will ask, "Well, maybe you didn't want a child, and that's why you're not pregnant? Raped, grieving, personal tragedies - you hit these women under the coat of medical records. Without asking their permission, you will enter their most intimate and painful zones. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u117	Thank you very much. Now please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Waldemar Kraska. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the outset, I would like to say, and to stress this with great power, that the introduction of a regulation of the Minister of Health amending the regulation on the detailed scope of the medical event processed in the information system and the manner and time limits for the transmission of this data to the Medical Information System does not create a pregnancy register. You have repeatedly said in your speeches that we have created a pregnancy register. We do not create such a register, nor do we create any other register. I'm going to say it again, for the third time, we're not making any pregnancy records. We want the data contained in the Medical Information System to provide medical staff with the widest possible access to the patient's data, so that the provision of medical services is carried out at the highest possible level and without harm to the patient's health. I'm sure there'll be some questions about who's entitled to access that data. So, first of all, the medical worker who produced the electronic documentation, second, the medical worker who works at the facility and will be responsible for further diagnostics or treatment. The third person who is entitled to access these data, i.e. the Medical Information System, is a doctor, nurse or midwife working in POZ, a family doctor. And the fourth person who will have access to this data is every medical worker - when there is a life-threatening condition of a patient who reports, e.g. from the accident, to the S.R. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think I need to convince the doctors who are in this room how important it is to know whether or not a person is pregnant. At the moment we will add this information, and in the Medical Information System in addition to the patient's personal data such as name, name, PESEL, email, phone number or the place of residence, there are already medical data, i.e. all visits, treatments, hospitalizations, and it is implemented not only within the National Health Fund, but also in private institutions. Each prescription, each referral, vaccination, diagnosis, hospital information cards and information about visits to specialist doctors, as well as the results of laboratory tests - it is currently located in the Medical Information System. Already on this basis, by examining the information that is contained there, we can find out whether the woman is pregnant or not, which means that information is already in the system. We are now introducing these four new information that will be quicker to analyse. I'll tell you why. We enter information about medical devices implanted in the patient, i.e. the so-called. implants. This is very important when a patient goes to the hospital emergency department after a spinal injury and needs to perform an MRI quite quickly. Information about whether he has the so-called. A foreign body is very important, because then we cannot perform this test in such a way. This is very important to the doctor who's gonna drive this patient. Next thing you know, it's allergic information. It's very important. It's about us, for example. They knew why the person who was brought in the ambulance was unconscious. This information is and will be available very quickly. The third information that will appear from now on is information about the blood type. I don't have to convince anyone, either, that this information is priceless in emergency states. When we have an accident, blood loss, you are in shock, you should tell your doctor as soon as possible so that the blood can be transferred quickly. And information about the pregnancy, ladies and gentlemen. Any doctor who takes care of a patient needs to know if she's pregnant or not. The point is that the treatment doesn't only harm the patient but also harm the child that this woman carries. So this is important. I'm still using examples from the medical rescue area. There's a young person coming in from an accident, unconscious. We want to do a C.T. scan as soon as possible, so-called. trauma scan to see how many injuries and injuries this patient suffered, but this is exposure to high X-ray radiation. It's very important whether this person is pregnant or not. As a doctor in the E.R., I won't have time to analyze all the medical records I see in the system right now. It'll show up to me that she's pregnant, and then I'll know what treatment to treat and what it's gonna matter. Next, we want to expand the Medical Information System for decisions about ability or incapacity to work and individual medical care plan. Information about preventive testing will also be in this system. There will also be measurements from telemetry devices that are integrated into the patient's online account, i.e. from all devices that monitor our vital functions. This is very important, especially in cardiology. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, it's very media-sounding that we're making some kind of register. For the fourth time, we do not enter such a register. It didn't come out of nowhere. In 2008, a special team was set up in the European Union to digitise the medical data of European Union citizens. We're moving, we're going on vacation. When we're on vacation in Greece, Spain, we might have to get medical attention. Then the doctor will have access to that information. The point is to provide this assistance in the most correct way possible. This committee completed its work in 2013. At that time, all the countries of the European Union accepted it, did not raise any objections. Poland also did not raise any objections to this regulation in 2013, which will be in force next year. At the moment, the European Union is completing its work on this regulation. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we're making unnecessary ferment and unnecessary confusion. We're not changing any criminal law provisions. Access to medical information is as it has been, on the basis of the rules that have so far been in force. I think there's no danger, no reason for women to feel threatened in some way. On the contrary, it's for their own safety. The idea is to make the woman feel safe and safe in case of medical attention, especially in emergency situations. Ladies and gentlemen, I think my information will suffice. If not, of course I am waiting for questions and possible answers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u119	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Anna April, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Sadly, I have listened to these speeches by my fellow Members because they are burdened with lies. You know perfectly well, ladies, there's no such thing as a pregnancy registry. But there's a medical information system that's supposed to serve women. Therefore, women that it is a woman's right to protect her health, as well as the health of a child who has conceived in her womb. And in a situation when, God forbid, Polka goes abroad... You may laugh at this, but you know, the right to bring in the needs and rights of Polish women only and only to abortion seems very primitive to me, dear lady. [[Or an incubator.]] The important thing, however, is that when a woman, do not give God, she will hit e.g. in Greece, in a situation of emergency of life to the hospital, it is for the doctor to know that e.g. She can't order a CT scan, which is nothing more than a one-time dose of 100 traditional X-rays in a situation where she's pregnant. And this is what doctors, doctors (The Bell), who have been working on this law since 2008.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u121	Thank you very much, Member. Barbara Nowacka, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u122	Mr President, please tell me who will be...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u123	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u124	...had the right to inspect these medical records. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! Minister! We are amazed to hear how much you don't understand what this conversation is about. You have brought Poland to such a state that Polish women, young women, are afraid to get pregnant - your ban on abortion, taking away Polish women in vitro... [[That's not true!]] ...a housing policy, lack of care for people with disabilities and women, usually women who stay with these children. You have them in deep contempt. And today, your offer to register is the next stage of intimidation. You have an anti-feminine and anti-demographic policy, and even your Minister Maląg says that this register is unnecessary. Then make a deal with the government, whether you have a ledger or not. 'Cause we know what that's supposed to do. Well, it's supposed to be to have the pregnancy and the doctor run by Mr. Ziobra's attorney. And that's what you want to make young women scare even more. You use the language of contempt and hatred for Poles (the bell), which you do not understand and do not want to understand. Minister, your job is to keep women safe. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Do not speak for all Polish women.]] [[Please do not assign the right to appear on behalf of all Poles. I don't identify with your views.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u126	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u127	First Law and Justice introduced a total ban on abortion, then demanded that other countries ban abortion. Fortunately, the Czech Government refused to impose such a ban. Now the PiS wants to register every pregnancy. No wonder the Polish people are afraid, they feel cornered and controlled. They don't want to be harassed by a police officer with questions about how to continue their pregnancy. They're afraid to get pregnant, and when they do, they're afraid to go to the doctor so the pregnancy doesn't get registered. That's why I'm asking on their behalf, why do you need the D.A.'s information about every pregnancy? Will there be an investigation if the baby isn't born? Does the D.A.'s office intend to create a special department to control the state and fate of every pregnancy? Finally, 300,000 were born in the worst year under the (Bingle) of births. children. And the pregnancy was much more. Do you have the resources and resources for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u128	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before this information about pregnancy is found in the so-called. register, that's first A woman must have access to a gynecologist. The report of the Supreme Audit Chamber of 2018 showed how sad reality is in Poland, how terrible access to gynecological and obstetric care is available to Polish women in our country - the refunded one financed by the state budget. Women outside large agglomerations have particularly bad access. The country road to the gynecologist is paved with big bumps. So before the Minister starts dealing with such details that are theoretically not needed for anything and are not expected by anyone, it is worth addressing the basic issues of gynaecological and obstetric care. Also those ladies, those couples and marriages that are waiting for their children. And that's where the in vitro bell you took is bowing down. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u130	Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u131	God bless you! - Polish children, especially born, unborn children. It is, of course, grotesque that the state that supported the drafts of the drug register, now you are outraged at registering people according to other categories. The state that supported for two years the removal of Poles from freedom, dignity, privacy, on the pretext of fighting the pandemic you erased the medical secret, now you are launching a klangor in connection with this case. I'm not exactly in favour of centralizing and stripping people from their privacy on the pretext of rushing to help them. But that's another thing. I will take advantage of the presence of Minister Kraska. I want to ask you, Minister, because your ministry doesn't answer in writing: What were you doing before your official life story started in Wikipedia? What work, training (the bell) did you perform before 1989?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u132	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u133	Answer the question, because the IPN didn't verify your... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u134	Are you Mr Suchoń? You're welcome. There's no envoy. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I want to remind you that being pregnant is the normal state a woman is in. I'm saying this as a woman who survived four pregnancies, and that's what I'm proud of. You have to talk about taking care of a pregnant woman, not abortion. I want to remind you that data collection is nothing new. Here's a question for the Minister. What standards have been in force in the European Union so far, and what are they going to be after 1 January 2023? Is it not the case that in all European countries there will be the same standards that a woman will be registered to deal with her in the state in which she is experiencing the conception of a new life? Because life is the most precious gift we should all take care of, and above all, politicians. I still have that message. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u136	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u137	Abortion is mostly spoken of by those who have been born so far. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u138	Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u139	It must be acknowledged that the PiS is consistent in its action against women. Today, the pregnancy register adds to the bans. How much PiS hates women, I've told you many times... [[You guys hate women.]] ...so today I'm going to focus on what we, the Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition, will do when the PiS hits the history dump. Well, we're going to solve women's health issues as a whole. We'll provide a free prenatal exam... [[But they are. They're here.]] ...we will guarantee easy access to free contraception, day after prescription to the tablet, return lessons of sexual education in schools and constant financial support and medical care in the event of the birth of a disabled child. [[You're lying, woman.]] We'll also go back to free in vitro. We will also introduce a new social agreement in which we will guarantee the right of each Polka to take a decision to terminate pregnancy by 12 weeks after consulting the psychologist and the individual doctor, as well as in most countries of the European Union. Women must have the right to make personal decisions about motherhood in accordance with their own conscience, must have comprehensive care (the bell) provided, must be safe and have the right to choose. They must have a choice, not a ban. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u140	Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Since 1993, as I am in Parliament, there has been a debate on women's access to abortion, the dignity of women. And every time there was a fight. But there came a time when the Left ruled and gave way to these matters, seeking compromise. This compromise has been concluded. It wasn't enough for the Left, but we wanted to respect all the views, not create a religious state that would order everyone... Because today it's a question of pregnancy, abortion, but tomorrow we'll move on, you'll move on. This is a mistake. You don't respect women, people. And if you think you can push one point of view because you have the majority in parliament, you are deeply mistaken. More respect for different views, more respect for women and trust in these ladies (the bell), because they make their own decisions and so it should be. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u142	Ms Urszula Pasławska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question: why does he need a pregnancy registry? [[Voice from the room: There is no register.]] To hide inflation, to distract attention from the cost, from the high rates of loans? Because I don't think it's to support women, because it has nothing to do with women's support. If you want to support women, in Poland millions of women invisible to the system need support, women who want children, not those who can afford in vitro, women after postpartum depressions, after miscarriages. There's a really big field here. Secondly, what if a woman doesn't agree to an entry in the register? [[Voice from the room: There is no register. This isn't a ledger.]] Will she have the right not to grant such consent? Thirdly, what about our civil rights, our personal rights? Constitution in Article. 51 states that the State has the right to collect only information which is necessary from the point of view of the democratic rule of law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u144	Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation. There's no envoy. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Probably in a normal country an electronic register would be a good idea, but in Poland? In Poland, the road toll system tracks drivers even when they drive on free roads. In Poland tax offices will be able to enter Polish and Polish accounts from July for no reason, according to their will. In Poland, every digital register has access to e.g. The Territorial Defense Army, because that's the bill you've passed. In Poland, three or four more authorities have recently received access to the Central Register of Taxation Data, and it is completely unknown why. PESEL database in Poland and our phone numbers were passed to census rankings under the pretext of facilitating the national agricultural census. How are we supposed to believe that this register will only be available to doctors and patients, and not become a tool for your anti-feminine crusade? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u146	Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! In accordance with the current rules, a uniform system of medical information, including medical events, will apply in the EU countries from 1 January 2023. The data contained in the medical information system is not unique. In accordance with applicable standards, every medical advice includes an interview and, if not a teleporade, a physical examination. The physician who provides advice asks about all relevant matters, allergies, surgical procedures, ways of supplying, illness in the family, medications taken, women are asked about the first, last period, number of births, miscarriages, also pregnancy or blood type. There are no separate catalogs of broken legs treated surgically with implants, cat hair allergies, certain blood types or pregnant women. Why, then, are these data entered in the e-documentation? Because they're very important from the point of view of possible diagnosis and therapy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! Please answer the questions: Who will have access to patient data and when, as well as will there be separate directories? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u148	Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u149	It's very interesting when the PiS Club talks about European standards. Let us remind you, the European standard is in vitro, the European standard is abortion for a woman according to her will until 12 weeks of pregnancy, the European standard is that emergency contraception is non-prescription. You forbid all this from Polish women. I'll tell you more, you also forbade them from abortion in a situation of severe fetal injury, in a dramatic situation for them. On the other hand, you're so eager to handle the pregnancy register... [[Voice from the room: There is no register.]] ...which the prosecutor and the court will also have access to outside doctors as part of the Penal Code article. But there's one thing I want to say. I'd like you to take care of another ledger. Poland was at the forefront of the ranking, the blackest ranking on additional deaths during the pandemic. Over 205,000. Poles died excessively during the pandemic. European average - 12.5% When it comes to these excess deaths. In Poland - 22.6%. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why so many Poles died. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u150	Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The idea of the Ministry of Health to store further information in the Medical Information System, e.g. about allergies or pregnancies, in a normal country would not arouse as much emotions as we currently have in Poland. [[What do we have? Insane country? What are you saying?]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry ignores the voices of women who, in the current legal and political situation, since autumn 2020, after the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, are afraid to become pregnant and have legitimate fears of excessive State interference in their privacy. The Minister knows very well that, in addition to medical staff, access to this system will also be granted, in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, a judge and a prosecutor. The Polish people don't trust you or your governments, the Polish people are afraid of the prosecution... [[Talk about yourself.]] ... The Polish people are afraid they won't get help when they're in a crisis situation. Minister! Will the patients know who, when and for what purpose was checking their medical records? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the second thing is, why is it a regulation, not a law? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u152	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u153	Yes, ladies and gentlemen, in a normal country, the digitalisation of medical data is desirable, but in Poland it is justified that it raises fears and doubts. Women, instead of enjoying the fact that while they are pregnant, information about their health can be passed on well, wondering what they will actually do and by whom they will be used, whether they will have access to these bases, physicists, prosecutors, messengers of Zbigniew Ziebrara, or whether the activists of Ordo Iuris will have access to these data, who for many years, can say, persecute women, harass their families, create fear and fear, drag them to court. Ladies and gentlemen! In Poland, we must restore normality. Polish women must not be afraid to get pregnant. Instead of enjoying the conception today, women are afraid to go to the doctor's first appointment, if it's okay, because if it's not, then what's next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u154	Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u155	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, We have a normal country. You don't laugh, we have the normal Ministry of Health, a normal government, one that cares about women's health... [[He hates women.]] ... young Poles who are just getting pregnant. And this is so important at an early stage, health care - the health of a woman who is pregnant, who is taking birth to a child. The Minister has just explained clearly that this is a requirement of the European Union, that is to extend the catalogue of data collected and will translate into an increase in the availability and transparency of information transmitted to the Medical Information System. Stop calling it a pregnancy registry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u156	Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Our reaction to the pregnancy register simply has a very Polish context. This is the context of fear of abortion bans in Poland. This is the context of fear of the availability of a gynecologist for Poles, especially those from small towns and villages. Some Polish women must travel 50 km to the doctor of the gynecologist. [[You didn't educate. We're making up for it.]] Perinatal care is at a dramatically low level. The mortality and scale of miscarriages are increasing. And this is the context of fear of the pregnancy register and of your actions. Women with disabilities - dramatic access to medical care, gynecological care. Access to a gynecologist for teenagers only under the care of an adult. A teenager has the right to go to a gynecologist, talk about her problems, not necessarily under the care of an adult or a parent. Miscarriages and dead births. Why don't you amend the bill so that a woman doesn't have to go to her own expense in the face of trauma (the bell), examine the sex of the embryo, so she can bury it? Minister, this is a challenge for now. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What is a cell cluster, then why hide it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u158	Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In countries where abortion is a European standard, and about these European standards there was a lot here today, i.e. everywhere outside Poland and Malta... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal! Quiet, please. This register is a simple procedure in the digitalisation of medical procedures, and we absolutely agree with that. But we are concerned that in Poland it will be a scarecrow for women and the source of persecution for those who will stop the pregnancy. After the judgment of the Constitutional Court of Julia Przyłębska, patients who are pregnant with a fatal defect, today hear the question whether they have money, and today they hear a suggestion that they go abroad. We have the right to suspect that Minister Ziobra's attorney's office may be using this register to hunt women who have aborted the pregnancy. Minister! I would like to ask if, in view of the extension of this register - we are fully aware that this register was functioning - there will also be a manual for doctors and perhaps a reminder that today women in Poland have the right to terminate pregnancy themselves, that it is legal and that these doctors have no right to ask questions (the bell), where they did it, how and why. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u160	Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u161	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Listening to the voices of the opponents, one thing must be confirmed: pregnancy is not a disease, and a condition sometimes very expected by a woman or a spouse. Why does the subject of pregnancy in the Seym always arouse so much emotion? After all, demographics and our future in many social dimensions depend on how many children are born. It is the responsibility of the State to take care of a pregnant woman, both social assistance and health care, and an important factor is rapid and effective medical assistance in stress situations or endangering the life of the mother and child. Today, young women from the beginning have confirmed that they will become mothers, looking for a good midwife doctor and information where they will find the best care. Why not extend the catalogue of medical information to include this important information about pregnancy, since it is one of the factors supporting medical procedures, and at the same time results from the recommendations of the panel set up by the European Commission? Minister, who has access to information and data collection at the SIM?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u162	Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u163	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is not about politics, because pregnancy is not politics. Access to free contraception is not politics. Deciding about your fertility is not politics. High standard of perinatal care It's not politics. Access to a gynecologist who doesn't judge women's choices isn't politics. Childless is not politics. Legally freezing eggs on demand is not politics. Legal abortion is not politics. The right to a surrogate is not politics. Every man uses a surrogate because he's not giving birth. In vitro is not politics. Marriage is not politics. Even sex isn't politics. These are all our private affairs, and you sadistic politicians have made them the tools to bully women. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u164	Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u165	Already? Did you have a laugh?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u166	But, my fellow Member, time is passing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u167	I haven't started yet, Marshal, because I'm waiting for you to laugh.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u168	Well, that's too bad.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u169	High Izbo! Right-wing mentality are commands, prohibitions, surveillance and extraordinary interest in the sexuality of others. It's the result of your worldview, complexes, phobias, and obsession. The English right has long been liberated from Victorian prudery. Poland from dulchy - no, because it is your right-wing power on hand. Instead of logic, miracles. Pregnancy for you is not the natural consequence of the combination of the egg and sperm, but the miracle of conception. Miracles, too, you have to keep an eye on them. By banning abortion, you've led women to have to leave their country, now you want women in their country to be afraid to go to a gynecologist. Dramas are coming, but what do you care? Nothing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u170	Katarzyna Czochara, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Members of the opposition! Polish women who become pregnant are not afraid to go to the gynecologist, and conception is a miracle and every single woman tries to take the utmost care of this miracle and eliminate any threat. And unfortunately, there are medical devices that pose a threat. Minister! Answer my question. What medications, what medications can contribute to the side effects of pregnancy? Are these just questions of X-rays, or are there other medical devices that threaten pregnancy? Why does the Medical Information System (Bell) contain information about pregnancy? Is it also true that there will also be information about the blood type in this system? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u172	Mr Riad Haidar, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left. You don't have an MP either. Mr Jerzy Paul, Law and Justice. There's no envoy, either. Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u173	Your governments are restricting women's rights. You've restricted access to the pill the day after and access to legal abortion. In Zakopane for several years women have limited access to delivery, they have to go to other cities and have children there. The Life Act limits the payment of a benefit of 4 000. PLN until the age of 12 months, when the child must be reported, even though the disability or illness he has is for his entire life. You're also restricting respite care. In 2021 there were 760 hours of parental care, while in 2022 it was only 360 hours. I have a question for the minister: Do you plan to make a register of paedophile priests instead of the register, along with a record in which the parish is working and which bishop protects them? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u174	Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister of Health about the possibility of criminal use of the Medical Information System, specifically the possibility of cyberattacks, the possibility of applying GDPR rules in practice in the modified Medical Information System. We know that when it comes to healthcare facilities, they are much less secure than other industries, not just banking. We know that the number of hacker attacks is increasing rapidly, for example in 2020 18 million patients have been affected by these attacks. Therefore, I return to the question, because these are sensitive data, they can be intimidated, blackmailed by victims: How this will be resolved, especially as far as (the bell) is concerned 6,000. primary health care institutions and 9 000 places of primary healthcare provision? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u176	Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Jarosław Wałęsa, Civic Coalition... Oh, there it is. Sorry, I didn't notice. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If a woman is able to reach a branch in any country without contact, could it be a foreigner from the European Union in Poland, or is this information needed by a doctor who makes diagnostic or medical decisions in an urgent, immediate and immediate manner? And the second thing I wanted to ask you. Everyone's asking who hits... You know, this information goes to medical records. But who can, in this way, not benefit? Who can't use these medical records? Who needs them? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Although the Minister has told who they are made available to, who can't use them? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u178	Mr Jarosław Wałęsa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u179	Since the dawn of history, men have usurped the right to decide about women and what happens to them. But we are already living in the 21st century, so the time of forest grandparents who know better what a woman can and can't do just ended forever. And it is time for governments in Poland to understand that too. Let us remember one very important principle: the government is to exercise power, and this is not a government of souls. Leave our consciences alone and let everyone decide for themselves what his life should be like, especially women. Why do we have to go back to this and discuss it actually every day or very often? Why can we not once and for all confirm what is obvious? We must try to understand the needs of another man, and at the same time (the bell) do not interfere in his life in a heartless way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u180	Member Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, You have confidence in yourself as a doctor and a man of specific knowledge. We have confidence in doctors, nurses and medical professionals. But citizens and citizens do not trust the Polish state, where relations between state bodies are formed on social and political principles. Hence, let's not be surprised that the Polish people are afraid of this pregnancy register. I wanted to ask: What legal conditions have decided to introduce pregnancy data into the Medical Information System? Second question: How do police, prosecutors and courts have access to this medical information today? Third question: How many official requests were made by state authorities for access to the Medical Information System? And four. Today, Poland accelerates before the Commission, the European Union and introduces this solution (the bell).
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u182	Mrs Katarzyna Sjojka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u183	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! We have a normal country, we have an abnormal opposition in this country. [[Applause]] After the voices I heard from the messengers on the left, I have the impression that ladies have one prescription for all the programs and all the social challenges in our country for people with disabilities, for helping families, for families with many children. This prescription is total abortion. On the other hand, you completely forget that there is a vasectomy, which is also available. And here is the word to Members: Members, decide about yourselves, not women, about yourself - vasectomy is also available. Therefore, as a doctor, I perfectly understand how important it is to know about pregnancy when I take a patient in my office, a patient in my office, for example medications and diagnostic orders, because then we decide about a woman, but we also decide about a child, two people. That is why I am also addressing Members on the left, do not tamper with your propaganda in the life and health of women and children, because your propaganda can kill. Also, do not try to limit doctors in their work and do not take away the tools and key information for our work. [[Applause]] And I have a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u184	Member, you are extending it. Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Surveillance and punishment is another idea of the PiS government aimed at women and doctors. Surveillance and control, and 10-year-olds in juvie, parents of children with SMA diseases have to deal with themselves. Every year about 50 children with SMA are born in Poland. Instead of the announced pregnancy registry, maybe the government will finally take care of the reimbursement of SMA medications and the possibility of treating these children? The children are in pain, the parents are begging for help. 10 million per child is a huge amount and it's really hard to collect. Little Zosia, little Christopher fighting for his life, fighting for his health, waiting for a refund. Apart from receiving medications from children from SMA - if you do not know - should be taken care of by a neurologist, a gastrologist, anesthesiologist, orthopedics, dietetics, physiotherapists and probably many other specialists (the bell) because they require such help.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u186	Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u187	The Ministry of Health... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...promised a refund and failed to keep his word. Keep your word and give the kids that money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u188	Madame, don't yell, just get off the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u189	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! As usual, a lot of noise about nothing. The collection of data, including personal data, and particularly sensitive data, usually raises, at least, the interest of persons whose data are or will be aggregated and further processed. Data on medical incidents are undoubtedly sensitive data. And the people included in the system will be all of us. Data processing standards are based, among others. on the basis of a limitation of the purpose of processing. In the light of the law, data must be collected for specific, expressive and legitimate purposes and not further processed in a manner incompatible with those objectives. Therefore, I have a question: What will be the purpose of collecting data on medical events (Bingle) including pregnancy data? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u190	Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Women in Poland are treated very subjectively and do not have the right to decide for themselves, are discriminated against, cannot make their own choices regarding their body and life. Therefore, every new idea that comes up, every government initiative is immediately suspicious. Where's the pregnancy log? What's the pregnancy registry for? Where's the other bottom? Why? [[Voice from the room: There is no such thing.]] Statistics are extremely sensitive data. Collecting information about the woman and her condition, pregnancy, is dangerous and contrary to the Constitution and the GDPR. These are extremely sensitive data, once again. What about miscarriage or unconfirmed pregnancy or miscarriage? Who can guarantee immunity, integrity and justice to a woman? There's no situation in our law to protect ourselves from surveillance. This is another public surveillance, another registry that may be picking up more victims for Ziobra. In a country where a woman can be fired only because she expressed her legitimate opinion on the tragic financial situation of Poland... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...family, anything is possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u192	Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a few questions for you, Minister, as well as for the opposition, whose mind is clouded by ideology in this discussion, you can see it on the palm of your hand. [[Voice from the room: Why are you insulting me?]] Minister, first of all, will these provisions we are talking about be known on a European scale, or are they also valid in the Netherlands, in the Netherlands, Germany and France? And the second question to the opposition. [[The voice from the hall: To Ziobra, I think.]] Why, ladies and gentlemen, do you want to discriminate against pregnant women and foetuses, and you want to deprive them of quick and efficient care outside Poland when necessary? Minister, one more question about these registers. Since exactly they will be introduced and will every doctor, regardless of specialization, have an insight (the bell) into the Medical Information System? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u194	Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's debate on the so-called. The pregnancy register is actually a debate about how much Polish women can trust the Polish state and its institutions; how much they can trust that the state wants to protect their health and life, not take total control of their body; how much they can trust that pregnancy or doctor's visit will not end in case of miscarriage by the prosecutor's visit. Unfortunately, the answer to this question is one. Under the rule of the United Right, Polish women cannot trust in any way. This trust was buried by the PiS in October 2020 when at the political order of the so-called. The Przyłębska tribunal was almost completely banned from abortion. And now you want to harass women with the pregnancy register. You will not regain the trust of women (the bell), they will not forget this woman. [[Applause]] [[It's not a record, it's information.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u196	Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Electronic medical documentation is the development and future of the 21st century. Good. I have a question, then. Let's not give this information to a doctor. There's an unconscious patient at the S.R. [[Voice from the O.R.: To the doctor, yes, but not to the D.A.]] But no, let's not. You don't want that. He's coming to the E.R. with an unconscious patient, we don't know his blood type - he's dying. Will you take responsibility for this death? [[Applause]] There's no record of any allergies, we can't give it to him - he's dying. You're gonna take responsibility for this? [[The voice in the hall: Is Ziobro a doctor?]] A woman wants to have a baby, she's unconscious, it's irradiated - she's going to die, God forbid. You're gonna take responsibility for this? No. [[Voice from the room: You won't take it.]] It's good just to yell out of that podium. My dear fellows! Mr. Marshal! The 21st century The electronic system is designed to save lives, to help save lives. I have this question: On the one hand, who has access to this information except for the medical team? On the other hand, why don't we create a register of intellectual departures and opposition lies? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u198	Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's obvious that the PiS government is afraid of women... [[Voice from the room: Yes, I'm sure.]] ...because since he's ruled, you've made life difficult for them and deprived them of the many rights that have already been mentioned here today. Now you're using the recommendations of the European Commission and giving access to the medical records of District Attorney Ziobra. Why? [[Voice from the hall: But what do you say?]] D.A. Ziobro has proven several times that he shouldn't have access to classified data because he's a threat to himself. [[The voice from the hall: Miss Mirosławo, what nonsense are you talking about?]] Why are you lying that the regulation as it stands stems from the European Commission's recommendations that there is no need to make medical records available to prosecutors? Why are you introducing this amendment by regulation rather than by law? And how can Polish women be sure that their medical records will not be used to monitor them and check whether they have not done, for example. abortion (the bell) abroad? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u200	Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dullness is just hiding information that a woman is pregnant, and besides, ladies. You've incapacitated men because they have nothing to say about conception. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Conception does not take place during pregnancy.]] From a medical point of view, information about pregnancy is very important information. It is just as important information as what blood type is, because you can actually transfuse the blood of the wrong group and cause death. This is the information that is currently in the e-information system of basic healthcare and not just basic healthcare. Pregnant knowledge involves certain risks in assessing the need for treatment and the use of medicines, as most medicines practically have a contraindication to use during pregnancy. Question to the Minister: What information about pregnancy will be passed on to the Medical Information System? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u202	Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the May Ipsos study, 66% Poles and Poles are in favour of women's right to terminate pregnancy until 12 weeks. 66% 7 out of 10 people in Poland are in favour. [[Voice from the hall: What do they care?]] But not 228 Members and Members of the PiS who want to decide for women how to live. I will therefore not appeal to you. I will not ask whether in an anti-feminine country the pregnancy register or, as you say, the medical information system can cause abuse, because it is obvious that it can. I'll appeal to the women so they can stay calm. Under Polish law, women cannot be punished for their own abortions. So, regardless of the dangers posed by the next drafts of Law and Justice, most Poles are in favour of changing this anti-feminine law. And we're gonna change that law into a prowoman, safe, for human life. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: What about the little woman who develops in a woman?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u204	Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u205	The multi-stage legal procedure provides for the institution of the legal commission, which operates within the Government Legislative Centre, which is of a subsidiary nature. This is primarily a verification of the correctness of the structure of the act in relation to the principles of legislative technique, etc. Why was the regulation that we are discussing today, Minister, exempted from the legal commission's obligation to review it? And second question: What consequences threaten Poland if we do not comply with the requirements of EU law and expand the register kept under the Medical Information System, among others. About the pregnancy issues? And, by the way, this is a horror when I hear a discussion of women from the opposition who, under all circumstances, demand laws that allow mothers to murder their own children. [[Applause]] It's just a horror. There's a lot of horror over this room.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u206	Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Devots and political deities have given Polish women hell. In the UK, France, Germany, Ukraine, Bulgaria, Slovakia, Italy, Sweden, Norway, Spain, the Netherlands, Finland, Romania, Croatia, Denmark, Greece, Belgium, Lithuania, Latvia, Switzerland, abortion is legal and safe. The pregnancy register can be a duty and should be kept provided that abortion is legal, accessible and safe in Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: After all, abortion is never safe. Man, read the medical books.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u208	Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u209	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I ask you once again to explain to the ladies sitting on this side that this is not a pregnancy register that this is a medical information system that has been in operation for a long time, which contains the data necessary to save the lives and health of women as well as children. [[Voice from the room: Register of pregnant women.]] I am very sorry that you ladies treat women in question and that, speaking of women's health, the health of the child, you only talk about abortion and the tablet day after that. [[Applause]] I have a question for you: What did the PO-PSL coalition really do for women's health? Minister! Is it true that the current government has introduced a standard of perinatal care, where we define many benefits due to women, among others. Psychological support? Has it been introduced by law and justice a special diet for women, have been introduced free medications for pregnant women that are available genetic research (the bell) for women up to 35 years of age... [[Voice from the hall: But so what? What's next?]] ...that there's coordinated pregnant care that there's free intrauterine therapy funded by the NFZ? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: And then what? What about the drug refund?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u210	Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, that's what happened in our country, that at this point you're introducing the so-called. A pregnancy registry? It has happened, ladies and gentlemen, that we have in Poland a gigantic price, giant inflation, very high loans (Mounting in the room), which is what you are laughing at. It's funny to you, but it's not funny to citizens. So we're gonna have to cover it all up. What do you do? The pregnancy register is being entered. If it turns out it's not enough, you can expect further steps. How about the husband's and the wife's records? The pregnancy register is not an intimate issue for the ruling party, I am asking what it is because it seems that today the private and secret issue is the property of the Prime Minister and his wife, not the pregnancy register. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a new PiS program: Intimacy+z. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You have poor information.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u212	Mrs Teresa Pamula, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is very difficult to listen to this discussion. You brought her to one thing: an abortion. Table after table - this is the most important for you. Do you want Poland to be like me 44 years ago at the student clinic, when the doctor offered the procedure after the examination and I was supposed to abort the pregnancy? If it hadn't been for my great faith and experience out of my family home, my first daughter wouldn't have been here. Remember that. And don't bring young women into this state. Minister, is this really a pregnancy registry? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u214	Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u215	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister whether sensitive data on the pregnancy and health register of millions of women in Poland will be collected in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Directive issued by the European Union. I would like to remind you that where these data are collected against the will of the person concerned and are recorded in that register, EU law requires the administrator of such a system to remove them at the request of the person concerned. In any other case, millions of penalties will be imposed on the institutions collecting these data. I would like to ask the Minister whether Poland is prepared for this possibility. I'd like a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u216	Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A regulation has been signed to improve women's health, as provided for. A further register of sensitive data is created, which is not, as it is assured, a register related to the criminal, judicial, fiscal or police system. Are you convinced, Minister, that sensitive data on the health status of millions of women in Poland will be collected in accordance with the European Union directive? Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u218	Now please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Ms Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u219	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am built on today's discussion, especially as we all referred to European standards on one side of the plenary room and on the other. It's something that can really connect us. I would remind you that European standards are in the care of a pregnant visit to maternity homes, not district homes. I would remind you that the European standard is a doctor, not a prosecutor, a doctor helping a woman who is pregnant because of rape. I would like to remind you that European standards are also this unfortunate abortion until 12 weeks of pregnancy, they are in vitro and all other issues that are important for the reproductive health of women, and which in Poland are ignored, lied, silenced and taken away by women. I cordially invite Members from the Law and Justice - I think that not only on my behalf - to work on restoring these European standards to Poles, for example. in the Parliamentary Women's Rights Team. Wanda Nowicka is in the O.R. Let me remind you that the actions of the Parliamentary Women's Group have been blocked by your law and justice colleague, and the group has not met at all. I also remind you that the European standard is human dignity and subjectivity. A man - a man and a woman. And it probably would not be this discussion today if you, when planning to create a register, whatever we call it, took into account the dignity and subjectivity of women and their right to decide whether they want information about their pregnancy to be included in this register. If this is a decision on request, we will be really content with how you want to restore European standards in the health care of a woman in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u220	Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister claims that only medical personnel, doctors, nurses, rescuers will have access to these pregnancy data. But that's not true. According to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the prosecutor also has access to this file. And what changes this regulation is fundamental, because it will now be possible on a very large scale. Concerns about this scale have already been raised at the level of consultation by NGOs proposing fuses for this regulation, but they have been completely ignored. So all these fears raised by us are absolutely justified. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u222	And now I ask Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr Fellow Members of Law and Justice! Do you hear yourself? You stand here and you say you want to give Polek Zbigniew Ziobrze access to information about pregnancy to take care of their health. Zbigniew Ziobro is supposed to take care of the health of pregnant Polish women. Let's remind you how much you care about the health of Poles. Mrs. Isabella of Pszczyna, Mrs. Agnieszka of Czestochowa, Mrs. Anna of Świdnica. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]] [[Voice from the room: Stop manipulating. Those are lies.]] You cared so much about the health of Poles, about the health of these women, that these women, these mothers are no longer with us today. Yes. Such effects are prohibited from abortion, which you have introduced by political decisions. [[Voice from the room: Manipulation.]] The left is to say, "Not one more." The left is to calm down the women who are afraid of your pregnancy registry. Remember: abortion by a woman is not punishable in Poland. You're not alone, you're not alone. And in two weeks' time, a vote on legal abortion without compromises. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u224	I now request the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Waldemar Kraska. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I listened with great attention to the discussion that had taken place today through the meeting room of the Polish Sejm. As a parliamentarian, as a senator, I cannot accept the situation when lies fall from the speaker of the Polish Sejm. You've talked about the pregnancy registry a dozen times today. That's an obvious lie. I have repeated this many times: we do not create any register, and we do not create a pregnancy register. I'm going to say it again three times: we're not making any pregnancy records. You repeat this lie repeatedly to scare Polish people, Polish women. [[Is the D.A. gonna have access?]] The D.A. has access on the same terms. so far, my fellow Member. [[So it will be.]] On the same terms. So far, he's had access to medical records. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, the data that are in the medical information system, which is also about the woman's visit to the gynecologist's doctor, the obstetrician's doctor, noting that she's pregnant... At the moment, there are data in the system, as well as information on prescriptions that are issued for pregnant women with a refund, as well as on referrals to pregnancy and layoffs, L4, which pregnant women receive. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how it is right now. We're just adding a separate frame to give you the speed of access to information in these life-threatening states... 'Cause I'm 100% I am convinced that this information can save someone's life: and a woman, and a child. You don't want to do this? It will be you who will be responsible for the death of such a person. Because in a life-threatening condition only quickly available information in the emergency room in the hospital, in the emergency department can cause optimal treatment and this woman, and this child. Blood type, whether she's pregnant or not, whether she's allergic or has an implant in her - that's the key information I'm going to use as a hospital emergency department doctor. And I need quick access to that. [[You have to do a pregnancy test before every procedure.]] I can find everything in the file that's available right now, but it's about time. In a state of danger of life and health, we don't have that time. You guys are really lying around here. Once again, the House, which is the Sejm, is not the place to mislead Poles. [[You, as a doctor, should not mislead Poles either.]] Access to medical information. Many times it was asked who would have it and who could not have it. First of all, it will have medical staff, which is to say it again - a medical worker who created the electronic documentation in a given unit, most often - a doctor of the obstetrician's gynaecologist, and of course the workers who work with him, support the IT system and will want to schedule this patient for further diagnostics or ensure continuity of treatment. Then that's the kind of access that's gonna be. Thirdly, access will be given to a doctor, nurse or midwife in the so-called. the extent of primary health care, e.g. her family doctor, who must also have this information, because she will sometimes go to that doctor to prolong it, I don't know, release L4 or discharge the medications that are indicated during pregnancy. [[But no one's questioning that.]] And once again, it's about every medical worker, but only when there's a life-threatening condition. I don't think any of you will question that, no doctor, because these are the foundations. It's about knowing the condition of the person we're going to be helping. Other people. You were talking about the courts, about the D.A.'s office. Nothing changes here. This access to medical information is the same as it was before. These are laws that have been in operation for many years, and we're not changing anything here. Ladies and gentlemen, don't lie, don't tell the Poles the truth. We're not changing anything here. This access is on the same terms. So far. [[Voice from the hall: What was it like 5 years ago, 10 years ago and 20 years ago.]] Exactly. Ladies and gentlemen, we are introducing this register, which will be available in all countries of the European Union, but in a few months it will be in all countries. It is also for the safety of Poles, Poles who go abroad, not necessarily on vacation, for holidays, because they leave for example. to work, they're leaving for other purposes. Different random situations can happen there. And they're gonna go to the health services there, and that information's gonna be missing. This information is requested by foreign doctors in order to provide optimal medical assistance. And, ladies and gentlemen, once again, I, as a doctor, must have the minimum information about the patient: what condition he was in, what treatment he was taking, what medication he was taking. This is the foundation to be able to give the right benefit. You deny it to the Poles. This obligation will be implemented in our country from 1 October - the question has also been asked. We know, ladies and gentlemen, that many medicines that are prescribed by doctors cannot be used in pregnant women. And that information, too, I think, is very important. When you read the leaflet accompanying any medicine, you have seen many times that the medicine cannot be taken by pregnant women. So whether a woman is pregnant or not, even in such a trivial situation as extending a prescription for a drug or writing an antibiotic to a woman who is, I don't know, in Greece or Spain... I think it is very important that a doctor also abroad has access to such information. You asked if this information was protected. Of course, we know that cybersecurity is very important at the moment, at the time we are, not only. Let me remind you that this is what CeZ is doing, which is an organization or a company that has been set up to protect data. For many, many years we have had an electronic prescription and so far no data has leaked, so, ladies and gentlemen, this system is well protected. We have also recently set aside a lot of funding to equip this system, but also providers who also equip their IT systems with this security system. Ladies and gentlemen! We don't create anything new, we don't make any pregnancy records. What is now is medical information, which is essential for saving the life and health of Poles and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u226	Thank you very much, Minister. This statement concludes the examination of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Following the signature by the Minister for Health of the Regulation of 3 June 2022 amending the regulation on the detailed scope of the medical event data processed in the information system and the manner and time limits for the transmission of that data to the Medical Information System, critical voices appeared from the opposition. The opposition calls it a pregnancy register, which is intended to reduce natural growth in Poland. One of the messengers thinks that: "The next stage of the horror of women is taking place in our eyes! This register in a normal country would be natural, but in Poland it is another whip for women, another attempt to enslave women. This is supposed to lead to the fact that women in Poland will not want to have children and will not want to give birth to them. That is why I am asking the Minister to assess these extreme, in my opinion, false interpretations. Marszalek = Deputy Marshal Richard Terlecki: I'm declaring a time-out. 13. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min. 37 until 3 p.m. 13 min 07]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u228	I'm reopening the session. I would like to ask you, Members, to take your seats. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 2312 and 2337 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - port reception facilities from ships, - on the amendment of the Act - Environmental law and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 2338 and 2336 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 2334. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask, as I did the previous day, for a reduction... I ask all your Members to do so: from the law, from the left, from the inside, from everyone. I would like to ask you, Members, to take your seats. The President of the Council of Ministers asked for the floor. [[Applause]] Prime Minister, we would just like to welcome the students of the Second General High School. Col. Leopold Lisa-Kuli in Rzeszów. Mr Wiesław Bój has invited you. Welcome with the guardians. [[Applause]] You're welcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's important vote, which is why I would like to present to the High House who and why defends the state's right and who and by what actions de facto harm Poland. I would like to raise four such important points, I think it is important for everyone here in this room. I will talk about sanctions for oil and coal and about what we do so that Poles do not have to pay so much for energy carriers. I'll talk about inflation. I will, of course, talk about the national reconstruction programme and Ukraine. [[Voice from the hall: Bonds.]] For starters, very briefly about Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, Poland is experiencing the festival of solidarity for the second time. Poland has not been spoken so well in all the languages of the world in a long time. [[Applause]] [[Thanks to the people.]] Today we organize arms deliveries, today we help humanitarianly, today we help refugees, today we are a key element of all logistics in Ukraine or Ukraine flowing, and we also arrange, we organize a process concerning sanctions. And indeed, for all this, first of all for the wonderful reception of Ukrainians in Poland, I would like to bow down to our fellow countrymen. We thank all our countrymen. [[Applause]] A black Russian cloud hung over Poland. Today, High Izbo, there is a time when we need to work together as closely as possible, with this very important vote ahead of us. We need that unity. Today you can say that Poland is on the mouth of the whole world. Indeed, when I talk to leaders from all over the world, it is. I could summarize this first point with my words, but I will sum it up with the words of Mr Schetin: Poland is on the front line for humanitarian aid, Poland is on the front line for policy and Poland is on the front line for sanctions. Thank you, Mr President. I fully agree with this approach. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now point two: the national reconstruction programme. This is a programme which, after the pandemic, is intended to help Member States to exit the economic collapse. We remember those recessions that were everywhere, we remember the problems in the labour markets. We dealt with it differently, but there was a lot of it in Europe. What is Poland most needed today? Today, in an upcoming period of global crisis, problems with supply chains, with production chains, Poland needs investment, and it is best investment from grants, Poland needs promotion of exports, Poland needs savings - and all these elements also secures the national reconstruction programme. For all these elements, it is important, also in the context of what I will move in the third point, i.e. inflation. So we have a programme that is necessary for this time, and that is why I consider it very important to vote for it. I know that the Civic Platform would probably want there to be one milestone, one that would give you, the Civic Platform, the guarantee of a return to power. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] But I'll tell you, ladies and gentlemen, it wouldn't be a good milestone. It would be a millstone (Merry in the hall, applause) which Poland would have by its neck. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] And don't give God this to happen to us. That's not gonna happen. Ladies and gentlemen! After long conversations, too long lasting, nearly a year, because they should have been closed a year ago... We have discussed various issues relating to the national reconstruction programme, and I will talk about it in a moment. I'll tell you the same story about fake news you're trying to spread. But most of the time, actually 100%. time, almost 100% We spent time so-called. reform of justice, which we have been planning for a long time. [[The so-called reform.]] So-called from the point of view of the European Union and problems with the so-called. The rule of law. Well, ladies and gentlemen, yes, there are problems with the rule of law in Poland, but precisely because there is no equal treatment of citizens by courts, even today. [[Applause]] That is why reform is needed. And above all, the rule of law was not in your time of government. And let this voice hear Brussels as well. Do you remember the Neumann rule? The court will decide as the Platform wishes. Or do you remember Milewski's rule? He's gonna judge the judge someone from the Prime Minister's firm will choose. Or the Pietrzkowski rule? Not to mention shooting miners or violent action. That was the rule of law in your day. [[Applause]] But, ladies and gentlemen, we do not yield to the European Commission. We're working out what we were going to do, among other things. changes in the Disciplinary Chamber. We are not treated by the European Union as we have so far, to your governments, in the past it has been like an unbecoming girl in the issue or worse, as Rafał Trzaskowski treats women. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] We're... No, don't clap here, it's really not here... All you have to do is bend over sadly. We, ladies and gentlemen, are a proud country, which is why we negotiated as equals. And we negotiated as such a compromise. [[Voice from the room: As such.]] I think that compromise is something that both sides are giving up, and that's what happened in our situation. [[Voice from the hall: What was it like in Pacanów?]] I can also say that it actually took months, it was a mitre, a lot of documents. Sometimes I wonder why so many of these documents are created. [[Some Members chant: "Drożyzna! I'll be right back. I'll be right back. I'll be right back. I'll be right back.]] Yeah, I'll get right to it. Sometimes I wonder why...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u230	Ladies and gentlemen... Prime Minister... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u231	Sometimes I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, why so much red tape... [[Some Members chant: Targowica! Targowica! Targowica!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, please... Prime Minister, very...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u233	...and I think you'll be particularly interested in this part. Well, there are officials like Donald Tusk who took huge money - huge money - for being an enemy in Brussels. [[Speech outside the microphone]] Yes. And, ladies and gentlemen, what exactly did he take the money for? Probably for acting to the detriment of Poland, unfortunately. [[Some Members chant: Bonds! Bonds! Bonds!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u234	Prime Minister... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u235	Ladies and gentlemen! I know you're in pain and tormented... I'm gonna talk about this right now. Ladies and gentlemen, I know you're in pain, and it bothers you that I left behind the golden thrones and 100 million or more of them. I left all this for the public service. [[Applause]] [[You didn't leave anything behind. You signed it up for your wife.]] And your leader left an honorable premiere for the cashier in Brussels and went to Brussels. [[Applause]] He left you, contributed to your defeat. You want to hear about the bonds? [[Some of the MPs are chanting: Puppets! Stupid bastards! Stupid bastards!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Well, yes: for a long time, I have encouraged Poles not since yesterday, I have encouraged for many months, for many years, to invest to buy Polish bonds. I urge Poles to do so because it is a transparent investment, safe for everyone and a pro-state investment. If I'm doing what I'm trying to do, I think it's good if my words are followed by actions. Isn't that right? [[Applause]] If I hadn't, I'm pretty sure you'd be yelling that I'm keeping money on deposits and deposits in these horrible banks. That's the way it is with you guys. I'm used to it. [[Applause]] But one more thing. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to say, because I see here an interest from this side of the room, that about 10 to 30,000. On average, I spend a month on various charitable activities (Applause), supporting various children's homes, supporting workshops on occupational therapy, on colonies, on children's trips to different places in Poland and Lithuania, I also support people with disabilities... [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] ...and I have recently taken care of dozens of families from Ukraine to become assimilated in Poland as soon as possible. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] But I'm going back to KPO after this short digression. Well, KPOs, ladies and gentlemen, this is a programme for all the countries of the European Union. It contains milestones, indicators in number for the whole European Union about 5200. The Italians have more than 500, Romania has more than 500 of these indicators, these stones, Romania over... sorry, Spain - over 400, four times less Portugal than us - over 300. [[Voice from the hall: And we have a bowl of rice.]] We have 283. So what? The vast majority of these milestones are already included in existing directives or those that are being processed. The vast majority of them serve our interests, is in our interests, is good or neutral for us. [[Applause]] I dare say that with the exception of those that we have negotiated hard, which are related to the reform of the justice system, just all of them. And you need to know that. I'm about to talk about those fake news you're focusing on because today is an important vote. Today is an important vote, ladies and gentlemen, for which the Civic Platform wants to vote against the national reconstruction programme, against money for Poles. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] At least, dear fellow countrymen, we'll know who needs to be thanked for the fact that this money doesn't get to us all the time, because there's a delay. 'Cause you can think about when they're coming in. I don't know exactly. I'm counting on it to be at the turn of this year and next year. The same is true of the Partnership Agreement as soon as it is accepted. I'm counting on it, too. These are important measures to get out of the crisis. But, my fellow countrymen, look at what the Civic Platform and opposition say in various international fora, in these European tribunals and in the speakers. [[Some Members chant: "Drożyzna! I'll be right back. I'll be right back. I'll be right back. I'll be right back.]] Today they want to shout that they will vote against the national reconstruction programme. It's a big mistake. This is a big mistake that could cost a lot of Poland. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are dealing with such a situation that, in the European forum, it is not a joke, opposition parties in the European Parliament urge the European Commission to impose sanctions on Poland. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] It's not a joke, it's actually a shame. It is difficult for you to support sanctions against Russia, but you are in favour of sanctions against Poland. [[The voice from the room: Betrayal!]] This is indeed an outrage. Ladies and gentlemen, I hear such statements as your Vice-President of the Civic Platform a few days ago, as the President of the Commission, that he hopes there will be further conditions. And that he is confident that there will be further conditions imposed by the European Commission. Amazing. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Do you understand that? Ladies and gentlemen, when I hear such things, I wonder whether it is still Polish opposition, whether it is opposition to Poland. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, that's the way to look at it. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why today, in this important vote, one must answer the basic question: What does Poland do? Is Poland for the treatment of the project Nord Stream 2 as a business project, or does Poland rather serve to build a pipeline to Norway, the Baltic pipeline? [[The rule of law.]] Is Poland used to build a barrier on the border with Belarus so that there is no provocation from Lukashenka and Putin, or is it used to run with a commercial, insulting officers and telling that we will let everyone in here? [[Applause]] Does Poland serve, ladies and gentlemen, e.g. A dig in the Vistula Mill? You said, "What will Russia say?" That's the way to think. This is the basic question: What serves Poland? And let everyone answer that today. Ladies and gentlemen! Third point: inflation. Inflation is a worldwide problem today. And there's nothing to look for the enemy inside. We have one opponent. It is Putin, it is the Kremlin, it is the terrible war caused by him, it is the putinflation (the bell) which he caused. [[Applause]] And that's why, when there was a pandemic crisis, we put in place an anti-crisis shield. It worked. As was the crisis, as was the beginning of the inflation crisis, we have implemented an inflation shield, which has partly worked as well. But then the war began and the global crisis began. That is why we are implementing some part of the anti-putin shield. And, of course, for it to work, we need rapid action. [[The voice from the hall: in Pacanów?]] We need to confiscate the assets of the Russian oligarchs, the Russian Federation, what you don't want to support. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! In these anti-inflationary measures, credibility is also crucial, because policy must be about keeping contracts. And look what we've done, also to lower inflation. [[Look who's talking.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u236	Mr President, this is the first time I have warned you. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u237	Firstly, we promised zero VAT on food, which is also an action to prevent the effects of inflation, because it leaves money in the pockets of Poles. And we did. We promised 13th and 14th pensions. They're here. We've reduced the tax from 18 to 17%. It's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's From 17 to 12% from 1 July - it will be done. [[Applause]] One of the highest tax-free amounts, i.e. Up to 30,000. zł - done. Aids for fertilizer - done. [[Applause]] A VAT discount on fuel so inflation doesn't hurt so much - done. Up to 8%, without the consent of the European Union. [[$3,000 in coal, $8,000 in fuel.]] Reduction of VAT and excise duty on electricity, heat, fuel, coal - it's all done. That's credibility. That's keeping a deal. [[Applause]] And on your side? You said there was going to be a PIT reduction on your side, and it came out of this increased VAT to 23%. There were supposed to be savings, and the OFE took out. And Tusk recently said he'd do the same. He'll take the second part of the OFE. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Yeah, scandal. It was supposed to be, ladies and gentlemen, a good senior policy, and there was an increase in the retirement age. A six-year-old school mob is what you do. Raising the ZUS in their time - we forget that. In 2012, from 6 to 8% They picked up the ZUS. But, but: Who lowered this ZUS? The government of Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, from 13% to 6%. [[Thousands of kilometers of local roads.]] What about From 6% to 8%. [[Applause]] These are our actions to prevent the effects of inflation. These are our anti-inflationary measures. We are fighting inflation just as Europe is fighting. It is clear to everyone that inflation is a big problem today. A great social and economic problem for all families... [[And that's the truth.]] ...not just in Poland. President Biden, President Macron, Prime Minister Johnson, Chancellor Scholz, Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, President of Lithuania, but somehow the Civic Platform doesn't know it because here... [[Long-term applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] ...is a Goebbelsian policy - that a lie repeated a hundred times becomes true. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That's what they're trying to do... [[Voices from the room: scandal! Scandal!]] ...that's what they're trying to do. [[Some Members chant: Targowica! Targowica! Targowica!]] Thank you, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! But also at a time like this, except for the fight against inflation... I'll move on to the final point here, to the fourth point. The fourth point is what we want to do to ease the pain of Poles associated with high coal prices, with high fuel prices. What to do to relieve Poles in this area - what we have already done and what we want to do. About this now in this fourth. I want to say part of it. Well, first of all, we run a program to buy coal and increase coal production in Polish mines (Applause)... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...because, yes, Poland is in the avant-garde of organising a sanctioning process on Russia in order to effectively fight for the sovereignty of Ukraine. [[Applause]] It is necessary, but this, we are aware of it, concerns very much Polish families. And in order to prevent that, we want the price to be the same as before the sharp increase in coal prices due to the embargo on Russia when shopping starts for the autumn-winter heating season. [[Applause]] And we're gonna do it. Today we are working not only on shopping, but also on distribution mechanisms, so as to avoid the chain of intermediaries, so that they do not earn money on this mediation, so that Poles simply have the cheapest coal. [[Applause]] That's the second thing. [[A voice from the room, you liar!]] Third. Ladies and gentlemen, I know how much expensive fuel hurts Poles, and I know that the argument that it is one of the cheapest, if not the cheapest, in Europe, few people really care, although I think it is also worth keeping this argument in their head. That's why I'm gonna tell you what we've already done. Reducing VAT on fuel at the expense of about PLN 7 billion for the budget - and you are surprised that this budget still manages, isn't it? It hurts you, it bothers you? [[Applause]] Reduction from 23 to 8% leave about 7 billion PLN in the pockets of Poles. [[Your marshal, I've come to vote, not to listen foolishly.]] But, yeah, the fuel's still too expensive. We will try to do everything we can to make it as cheap as possible, also by strengthening the gold. And what strengthens the gold? The National Reconstruction Plan strengthens the zloty and our fiscal policy and our regulatory policy strengthens the zloty. [[The votes were to be held at an hour. 13.]] This is one comprehensive macroeconomic policy - coherent, logical and good for Poles. [[Applause]] What else have we done, ladies and gentlemen... [[Get out of that podium. No more lies.]] ...to relieve Poles to leave more money in the pockets of Poles? The reduction of PIT to 12% From July 1st, it's a gigantic reduction. About PLN 15 billion will remain in Poles' pockets, and 18 billion will remain in Poles' pockets since the beginning of the year. So over the whole year, on average annually, it will be about PLN 33 billion. [[One more year of your rule, and we'll be making billions of dollars.]] Sure, these prices still hurt in shops, they hurt Poles, but think, ladies and gentlemen, what would have happened if it hadn't been for those pro-Citizen pro-social actions of the Law and Justice Government. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Jarosław! Jarosław!]] Next, heat prices are very important among the different prices of energy carriers. And here our programme, which we are preparing for autumn, will also include cooperatives, will include those who today either because of too many intermediaries, or because of other mechanisms still pay for high prices and do not operate on the commercial market. Because the commercial market is one thing, and social action is another. And we will do everything we can to relieve Poles in this area. [[Applause]] And, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, we must ask: Who can Poles trust? Were those who were wrong, lost, keyed in the most important strategic issues with regard to Russia, Germany and their gas policy, to all that was relevant to European policy... [[It's in the catechistic halls, not here.]] ...a surrogate, Russian threat? You mean this side? Can you trust those people who were wrong about these fundamental things? Who thought Nord Stream 2 was a business project, and Russian investors, so Tusk said, are normal investors and they can't be treated as ideological investors? That's kind of how he spoke. Or one more quote. He said we had the gas from the jamal pipeline here, and we don't need that Norwegian gas. Where would we be today, ladies and gentlemen? Can you trust a party like this? You can mercifully forgive them, but you can't trust them, dear fellow countrymen. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] So who was right, ladies and gentlemen? [[Voice from the room: We.]] Were we right? We, building this dam with Belarus, or you who wanted to let it in? Was it right, President Jarosław Kaczyński, who said that Russia could not be trusted for any treasures (Applause) or did you who tried to do politics with Russia, and Germans and German politics called it a blessing for Europe even recently? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Hands fall, shame. But no wonder, because there's one more thing I want to remind you of. [[Voice from the hall: The wife's wealth.]] Something reminds me, as I said now, that your leader, Tusk, said that German politics, CDU policy, German government, is a blessing for Europe. [[Voice from the hall: Stop with your obsessions...]] Because he received many awards, German prizes, at the hands of the Germans, but he received one special one, which will be easy to remember for all Poles. He accepted their reward. Walther Rathenau. This is the Foreign Minister, the German, the one who negotiated Rapallo. Rapallo or overture to the Ribbentrop-Molotov pact. He accepted the award of his name, just to them. Walther Rathenau. [[Voices from the hall: Disgrace! Disgraceful!]] And it's easy to remember, because that's equal to 100 years ago, probably in April, but 1922. So let's all remember. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[You don't know anything about history either.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today I want to end by saying that we need cooperation, we need a fight, together, to smother inflation to fight for a better fate of Poles. [[You're gonna cover those jerks with that? You gonna cover the raises with that?]] We don't need an internal enemy today. Don't look for an internal enemy, ask your media not to look for an internal enemy. Today, don't go out there, to Brussels, to Berlin, complain, report... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...somewhere there are European speakers to occupy. For us, the most important thing is what is happening here, here in Poland, in Augustów, in Krosno, in Rzeszów, in Gorzów, everywhere here, in Poland, in Gorlice, do not confuse with Goerlitz. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voices from the hall: In Pacanów, in Pacanów.]] [[Voice from the hall: That's how you respect people.]] [[Some of the MPs are chanting: Puppets! Stupid bastards! Stupid bastards!]] And therefore, ladies and gentlemen, do not go this way. Don't report Poland, it's really disgraceful. We should all work together for the Republic, to get out of this huge crisis. Do not offer your inflationary solutions because they lead us straight to inflation as in Turkey - today 73.5%. It's a prescription. [[Mr. President, it's time to change it.]] Today we have one opponent, one enemy, it is the Kremlin, it is a terrible, terrible war in Ukraine, which the Russians started. [[Kaczyński is happy because he has Budapest in Warsaw.]] There's a war with the Russian regime. It is a war to peacefully end these terrible struggles, but to maintain the sovereignty of Ukraine. [[A voice from the room: True!]] And from this struggle we will emerge victorious. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Help Poland and help us help Ukraine, and it will be okay. Thank you very much. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Some Members get up and chant: Here is Poland! Here's Poland! Here's Poland!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u238	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a place where politics is at the highest level. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's right, we're different... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, if you'll allow me, as the marshal in charge of the proceedings, to... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, you won't, of course. [[No, you didn't interrupt those lies.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm embarrassed... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I feel embarrassed about the young people who sit at the gallery and look at the politicians who decide the fate of our country. Really, the view is extremely sad. You think you're allowed to, and you don't think this site is allowed. Well, no, ladies and gentlemen, we all have the same rules and regulations. [[Applause]] Members have submitted to the formal proposals. Please, Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation. Please. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And you shouldn't be screaming from the bench, and another messenger shouldn't turn back when anybody on this platform speaks. I remind you, however, that it is the Marshal of the Sejm who is conducting the proceedings of the Sejm. I'm just reminding you. [[A voice from the hall: Then don't drive because you're embarrassing yourself.]] [[The voice from the hall: Shame brings you to the Sejm.]] [[You embarrassed yourself as Marshal of the Sejm.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to request a break in order to convene the Seniors' Convention and complete the agenda for a normal debate on 280 commitments, so-called. Milestones to which the Prime Minister has undertaken to surrender to the European Commission. [[Applause]] Thank you, Prime Minister, for speaking - completely not on the subject. There should be a normal debate here, every club should have the right to hear what you sold, how you promised to get off your knees, and you decided to crawl in front of Brussels. You negotiated secretly. [[Applause]] You have accepted obligations which are neither law nor in the sense of European law nor in the sense of Polish law. Increase in heating prices, increase in electricity prices, increase in car ownership prices, bans on entry into the centers. You even agreed to negotiate the rules of the Sejm. [[It's all a lie.]] Where's the limit to defending sovereignty that you won't cross? Where's the line? Why are you afraid of a normal debate? Isn't that right, Prime Minister? Come out here and explain it. [[That's not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u240	Thank you, sir. Please, the Prime Minister would like to speak. [[Game in the O.R.]] Prime Minister, just a moment. Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u241	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u242	Excuse me. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the students I've welcomed, there are students from the High School that teaches them. Adam Mickiewicz from Strzyżów and scholarships from the municipality of Bogochwała. Welcome. [[Applause]] [[Maybe they'll buy bonds, too.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u243	Ladies and gentlemen! About that voice that's gone down now, I want to explain to you that fake news doesn't leave a comment. The three are particularly mentioned, Mr President, President Bosak, and he also mentioned local governments. Now I'm gonna refer to that fourth, too. The first issue, which is often raised, is that we should impose additional charges for the use of expressways, the second - car charges, the third - retirement age and the fourth related to what I have heard now, about entry into the city centers. Maybe I'll start with the first one. This is fake news because it has no intention of imposing any charges on cars on expressways. We're building express roads... [[Where?]] ...for money and European, and more and more for the money of the Polish taxpayer, therefore on trucks, as it is today, we will also impose an obligation to pay charges on these express roads, which we are perfectly building at an express rate - thank you to Minister Adamczyk. Yes, we want transit not to run over our roads, but to pay for the Polish budget. Is that bad? That's a good thing, isn't it? [[Applause]] That's point one. [[Voice from the room: Bravo, Andrew!]] The second point is the toll on cars. This is another fake news, we're not going to charge any car fees. In 2024 or 2025, we want to diversify the costs associated with the car, as is the case today. For a car that has a high engine jump capacity, there is a higher excise duty. If there's a low-carbon or electric car, we've got subsidies. You think you can only impose taxes like the Civic Platform did. No, you can exempt and thus promote clean air (Applause) and promote total innovation, too, because we want this sector to actually develop, this industry is developing, this is our model of development of Poland. The third point is the retirement age, especially pushed by the opposition. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I have one comment on this: Aren't you ashamed? [[Voice from the room: But you signed off.]] Aren't you ashamed? From this podium... The Civic Platform and PSL increased the retirement age: for women by 7 years and for men by 2 years, and for farmers, for women by 12 years. Unfortunately, it was done by PSL and the Civic Platform. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] We have reduced the retirement age and the Government of Law and Justice is the only guarantee that the reduced retirement age will remain the (Applause) retirement age, the one to which we have reduced. Of course, we have historically low unemployment, and there has never been such low unemployment. So if anyone wants to, at least through zero PIT for pensioners we encourage to work longer for those who want to work. Because we give choices, we're a party that gives freedom, a party of freedom. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Point four - entry into the city centers. These are decisions of local governments and the Polish government will certainly not interfere, order, prohibit. Again - choice, it will be the decision of local governments. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Can I support a formal application?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u244	Thank you. Here you go, with a formal request... There was a request for a recess. Here you go, Mrs Hennig-Kloska, a formal proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u245	Mrs. Marshal! I request a recess so that the Prime Minister can cool off and stop lying. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] Unfortunately, from the failed rhetorical performances Poles will not live better, and young people sitting at the gallery can only apologize. Do you want to talk about the government's achievements? 14 percent inflation done. Green light for the coal mafia - done, giant increase in loan instalments - done, drastic increase in food prices - done, record profits of Orlen - done. These are your real accomplishments. [[We're in the Sejm, in a serious House.]] Do you want to talk about truth and solidarity? Today we will vote on the Senate amendments that bring us closer to filling milestones that will allow European money to come to Poland. Anyone who will vote against these amendments raises his hand on Polish wallets and on the money that Poles simply deserve. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u246	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u247	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When the Prime Minister asked for the floor, I thought he wanted to apologize to Mrs Agnieszka of Pacanów, the postmaster, for trying to disciplinaryly fire her for telling the truth. But what? [[Applause]] [[That's right, PZPR.]] The premier duby larde is talking from this podium. [[Applause]] As a politician, I can judge you, but as a doctor, I need to diagnose you: you're a pathological liar. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I ask you to adjourn until Prime Minister Morawiecki undergoes therapy. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] There's no vote on KPOs today. This vote was a year ago and Solidarna Poland was against it. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] Today is a vote on the rule of law, on money for Poland, behind Poland. Whoever will vote against the Senate's amendments is against Poland. [[Thrilling applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u248	Mr President, I was expecting something a little different from you. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, these are remarks that are absolutely unacceptable, Mr President, absolutely. Suggesting something like that is unacceptable. [[Long-term applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] There you go, that's what you're allowed to do. You're free to go, aren't you? You're allowed to be insulted, humiliated. Slowly. [[Some Members get up, give a tumultuous applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Targowica! Targowica!]] [[The voice from the room: liars!]] [[Voice from the room: Goebbelsovsky.]] Here's another proposal from Mr Andrzej Rozenek, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, This bunch of lies, these manipulations we just heard, and these insults on your part against the opposition are the best evidence of your arrogance and contempt for the people. You despise people. Because how is it that the Prime Minister of the Republic comes out and lies? [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Voice from the hall: To Urbana.]] [[Voice from the room: Urban.]] That's contempt. That contempt went downstairs. Your cameramen, the guerrillas despise people, throw them out of work in Pacanów, and you come out here and tell all these lies. I thank the President for his correct diagnosis, and I fully share it, although I am not a doctor. I would also like to ask you, Mr President, to write a prescription that will help Poland. This prescription is called "End with the PiS." [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You all need to be diagnosed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u250	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When Mr Kaczyński told the Prime Minister to run the marathon, he misunderstood. It was a marathon of hypocrisy, lies, arrogance, and it had nothing to do with reality. [[Applause]] You are helpless and this arrogance and Goebbels propaganda you are trying to cover the cost, inflation and that you and your family have protected yourself from it. You gave the issue to GetBack Poles, and you invested in bonds. He sold the real estate himself. Only to escape the tax on the New Deal that you gave, and the only people who voted against the Reconstruction Fund were Ziobro, Kaleta, Kanthak, and your ministers. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] That's your scam. [[Applause]] Today, in this House, we have been faced with the cry of despair, Goebbels propaganda, which is practiced by people of President Kaczyński on a daily basis. But not in front of... [[Applause]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u252	Thank you very much, sir. It wasn't a formal conclusion. No, there was no formal application. Mr President, please step out of the podium. Here you are, Mrs Anita Kucharska-Heir of the Left, a formal proposal. Mr President, please step out of the podium. Last formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u253	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I will formally request a recess and a change in the way we conduct our deliberations so that we can reach a consensus on a completely different matter, on something that can reconcile us today, on print no. 1091. There was a miracle in this room two years ago. The opposition enthusiastically supported a government project that said that the most important thing for you is to support the weakest victims of domestic violence. We agreed in this room that we should take the side of the victims of domestic violence. Today, in this Chamber, we can face a similar situation again, a similar choice, and I am waiting for a rematch of the government side, which can support the opposition bill that stands on the side of the victims of sexual violence, and about the rape says that it is not just any (the bell) crime, but a crime. I hope that you will agree with your Prime Minister today that a woman has dignity, has the right to say no and cannot be treated as such. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: At what point is this? What's this?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u254	Thank you very much, Member. We return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Maritime Safety and the Law on Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland and Maritime Administration. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 2315. We're voting. Who is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 2315? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice in the hall: First vote for a break.]] Mr President, the motion was not for a recess, it was for a recess to call the Convention so that the Prime Minister... There is no condition, sir. [[Your marshal, what about my motion?]] There you go, Mr, without a vote, I am declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 56 hours 13 min 59]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 4 of the agenda. Let me remind you that we're in the middle of a vote. Let me remind you: the vote on Draft Print Act No 2315. [[The break during the vote is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.]] I'll say it again. Who is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 2315? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 451 - for, 2 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Maritime Safety and the Law on Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland and Maritime Administration. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate draft law amending the law - Law on proceedings before administrative courts. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2278. We're voting. Who is in favour of the full adoption of the draft law in print no. 2278? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the law - the law on proceedings before administrative courts. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft law amending the act on the Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement Centre and some other laws (prints Nos 2121, 2277 and 2277-A) - third reading. I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u255	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft law amending the act on the Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement Centre and some other laws, print No 2121. The Committee on Culture and Media at its meeting on 26 May considered the amendment and asked the High Sejm to approve this amendment. In addition, I would like to remind you that at an earlier meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, the committee recommended that the High House adopt an amendment to the Act on this institution, so that it would be a new institution: the Centre for Dialogue. Juliusz Mieroszewski. To open up to Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova and other countries, especially the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u256	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2277. The Commission also presents in its additional report an amendment on which we will vote first. We are voting on the amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 445 - for, no one was against, no one stopped 3. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2277, together with the amendment adopted? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 445 for, no one was against, no one held back 1. The Sejm passed a law amending the act on the Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement Centre and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of a State Enterprise (Polish Public Railways ¿) (Prints No.204, 2280 and 2800-A) - third reading. I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The High Sejm and the Infrastructure Commission have examined the government proposal to amend the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of State-owned enterprises in Poland. There's one amendment. It is related to the new wording of paragraphs 3-6. The Commission recommends that it be rejected and recommends that the High Sejm vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u258	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2280. The Commission sets out in an additional report an amendment on which the Sejm will vote first. We are voting on the amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 215 - for, 224 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who is in favour of the full adoption of the draft law in print no 2280? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 446 - for, no one was against, stopped 2. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of a State-owned company in Poland. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law - Construction Law and some other laws (prints No. 2245, 2279 and 2279-A) - third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 25 May, after second reading, when amendments were tabled to the draft law, it was again addressed to the Committee on Infrastructure, which examined these amendments on 26 May. In its additional report, the Infrastructure Committee recommends to the High House that amendments 1 and 11 be adopted, put to the vote jointly... [[Voice from the room: It will be confiscated expanded.]] ...the rejection of amendments 2, the rejection of amendments 3, 6 and 7, put to the vote jointly, the adoption of amendments 4, 8, 9, 10 and 12 and the rejection of amendments 5, 13 and 14. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u260	Thank you. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2279. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. We are voting on Amendment 1, which is linked to Amendment 11. We vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The adoption of these amendments will render amendments 2 and 5 irrelevant. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 1 and 11? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 440 - for, against - 1, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendment 2 has become unobtrusive. We are voting on the third amendment with which amendments 6 and 7 are combined. We vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The adoption of these amendments will render amendments 4 and 8 futile. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 3, 6 and 7? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 213 - for, 233 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 4th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 4th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. 5. the amendment is without object. We are voting on the 8th Amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 8th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 9th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 9th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 10th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 10th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 438 - for, no one was against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 12th amendment. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 13 irrelevant. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 12th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The 13th amendment has become unobtrusive. We are voting on the 14th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 14th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 223 - for, 227 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who is in favour of the full adoption of the draft Print Act No 2279, together with the amendments adopted? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 405 - for, no one was against, 45 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law - Construction Law and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending certain laws on the financing of housing programmes (prints Nos 2133, 2187 and 2187-A) - third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At its 55th meeting of the Sejm on 25 May in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Sejm re-directed the draft Print Act No 2187 to the Committee on Infrastructure to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Infrastructure, after considering the amendments on 26 May, asks the High Sejm to accept four amendments, including three combined votes, and three amendments, including one combined vote, to reject. Please accept the entire bill. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u262	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2187. At the same time, the Commission presents a minority proposal as well as an additional report of amendments on which we will vote first. We are voting on the 1st amendment with which amendments 9 and 13 are combined. We vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 1, 9 and 13? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 225 - for, 227 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the second amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 181 - for, 226 - against, 41 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the third amendment, with amendments from 4 to 6, 10 and 11. We vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who is in favour of the amendments 3 to 6, 10 and 11? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 431 - for, 15 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are voting on the seventh amendment with which Amendment 12. We vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 7 and 12? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 440 - for, no one was against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are now voting on the minority proposal. We're voting. Who is in favour of the minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 212 - for, 236 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the 8th Amendment, with which Amendment 15 is linked. We vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 8 and 15? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 389 - for, no one was against, 61 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are voting on the 14th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 14th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 441 - for, there was no one against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the whole draft law from print no. 2187. Who is in favour of adopting the bill in its entirety? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 436 - for, no one was against, 11 stopped. The Sejm has passed a law amending certain laws on how housing schemes are financed. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law on the change of the name of the Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław (prints No. 2246, 2289 and 2289-A) - third reading. I ask Mr Władysław Kurowski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law on changing the name of the Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław, prints no. 2246 and 2289. At its 55th meeting on 25 May 2022, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, he re-directed the draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth to examine the amendment tabled at second reading. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth, after considering one amendment at its meeting on 26 May 2022, asks the High Sejm to reject this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u264	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2246. The Commission also presents in its additional report an amendment on which we will vote first. We are voting on the only amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 187 - for, 235 - against, 28 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who is in favour of the full adoption of the draft Print Act No 2246? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 446 - for, 2 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law on changing the name of the Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on a draft law amending the Law - Geological and Mining Law, the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. The additional report of the committee shall be in print No 2260-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Grzegorz Matusiak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Law - Geological and Mining Law, the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws, print No 2205. Five amendments were tabled during the second reading. The Commission rejected these amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u266	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2260. The additional report also sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. We are voting on the 1st amendment with which Amendment 5 is combined. We vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 1 and 5? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 224 - for, 226 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 2nd Amendment, with which Amendment 3 is linked. We vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 224 - for, 226 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 4th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendment 4? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 223 - for, 226 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who is in favour of the full adoption of the draft Print Act No 2260? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 437 - for, no one was against, 11 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law - Geological and Mining Law and some other laws. We are returning to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on a draft law amending the Law - Water Law and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2283-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u267	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Three amendments were tabled to the governmental bill amending the Act - Water Law and some other laws during the second reading, which took place on 8 June. The Act was again addressed to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. Today, the joint committees have examined the amendments tabled. During the committee's work, two of these three amendments were withdrawn and one amendment was examined by the committees. The joint committees recommend that the High House reject this amendment and, of course, vote on the whole of the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u268	The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2283. They also present in an additional report an amendment on which we will vote first. We are voting on the amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who's in favour of the amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 214 - for, 236 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We vote on the whole bill. Who is in favour of the full adoption of the draft Print Act No 2283? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 429 - for, 7 - against, abstained from 11. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act - Water Law and some other laws. We are returning to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government bill on the promotion and rehabilitation of minors. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 2311. The Commission also presents minority proposals on which we will vote first. We are voting on the first minority proposal. Who is in favour of the first minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 214 - for, 236 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the second minority proposal. We're voting. Who is in favour of the second minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 212 - for, 238 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the third minority proposal. Its adoption will result in the futility of minority proposals 4 and 5. We're voting. Who is in favour of the third minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 213 - for, 236 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the 4th minority proposal. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 5th minority proposal. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 4th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 209 - for, 236 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are voting on the 5th minority proposal. Who is in favour of the 5th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 210 - for, against - 237, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the 6th minority proposal. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 6th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 214 - for, 237 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the 7th minority proposal. Who is in favour of the 7th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 212 - for, 234 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the 8th minority proposal. Who is in favour of the 8th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 210 for, 239 against, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the 9th minority proposal. Who is in favour of the 9th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 210 for, 238 against, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the 10th minority proposal. Who is in favour of the 10th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 213 - for, 239 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the 11th minority proposal. Who is in favour of the 11th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 213 - for, 236 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the 12th minority proposal. Who is in favour of the 12th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 218 - for, 228 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We vote on 13. a minority proposal. Who's in favour of the 13th? a minority motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 213 - for, 238 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the 14th minority proposal. Who is in favour of the 14th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 211 - for, 238 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the 15th minority proposal. Who is in favour of the 15th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 213 - for, 238 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the 16th minority proposal. Who is in favour of the 16th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 210 for, 238 against, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the 17th minority proposal. Who's in favour of the 17th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 214-- for, 235-- against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the 18th minority proposal. Who's in favour of the 18th minority request? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 214 - for, 237 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the 19th minority proposal. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the 20th minority proposal. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 19th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 213 - for, 228 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the 20th minority proposal. Who is in favour of the 20th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 212 - for, 227 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the 21st minority proposal. Who is in favour of the 21st minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 213 - for, 226 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the 22nd minority proposal. Who is in favour of the 22nd minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 214 - for, 238 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the 23rd minority proposal. Who is in favour of the 23rd minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 212 - for, 238 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the entire bill. Who is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2311 in its entirety? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 229 - for, 209 - against, withdrawed 12. The Sejm passed a law on supporting and rehabilitating minors. We are returning to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft Social Financing Act for business projects and assistance to borrowers. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2318-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Marcin Porzuck to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u269	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft Social Financing Act for business projects and assistance to borrowers. The Committee on Public Finance recommends voting against all nine amendments. The Commission recommends voting in full in favour of the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u270	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 2318. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. We are voting on the first amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will result in the non-objectity of Amendment 2. We're voting. Who is in favour of the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 213 - for, 236 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the second amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 209 - for, 235 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the third amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the third amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 210 - for, 228 - against, abstained 11. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 4th amendment with which amendments 5 and 8 are combined. We vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The adoption of these amendments will render amendments 6 and 7 irrelevant. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 4, 5 and 8? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 222 - for, 226 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 6th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 7 irrelevant. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 6th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 180 for, 227 against, 42 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 7th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 7th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 224 - for, against - 228, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 9th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 9th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 214 - for, 228 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2318 in its entirety? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 445 for, 7 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm passed the Social Fund Act for business projects and assistance to borrowers. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Act - Environmental Law and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 2316. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Sejm decided to join the third reading without re-directing the bill to committee. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the bill. If it is rejected, we will proceed with the vote on the whole draft law. We are voting on the motion to reject the bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the draft print law 2316 in its entirety? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 174 - for, 228 - against, 51 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print no. 2316? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 228 for, 200 against, 25 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act - Environmental Law and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws (Prints Nos 2309 and 2312). I ask Mr Krzysztof July to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u271	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliament's Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I would like to inform you that yesterday's committee examined 29 amendments tabled by the Senate to the Supreme Court Act and some other laws. The Commission recommends that the High Sejm adopt amendments 8, 9, 11, 12, 18 and 27 and reject the other amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u272	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of visitors today. I wanted to welcome guests from Lubuskie Voivodeship. We would like to welcome you very warmly. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. We are voting on the 1st amendment with which Amendments 19 and 25. We vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of rejecting Amendments 1, 19 and 25? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 228 - for, 218 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 2nd amendment, with amendments 3, 16 and 26. We vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 2, 3, 16 and 26? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 226 - for, 214 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 4th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's against the Fourth Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 228 - for, 215 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on Amendment 5, which brings together Amendments 7, 13 and 15. We vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 5, 7, 13 and 15? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 230 - for, against - 213, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 6th Amendment, with which amendments 10 and 14 are combined. We vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 6, 10 and 14? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 228 - for, 214 - against, abstained 11. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 8th Amendment. We will vote on it, including amendments 9, 11 and 12. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 8, 9, 11 and 12? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. No one was in favor of -443, 9 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are voting on the 17th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's against the 17th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 228 - for, 213 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 18th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's against the 18th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. No one was in favor of, uh, 442, 10 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 20th amendment with which amendments 23rd and 24th are combined. We vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of rejecting amendments 20, 23 and 24? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 229 - for, 218 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 21st amendment with which the amendments are combined 22, 28 and 29. We vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 21, 22, 28 and 29? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 227 - for, against - 218, 7 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the Senate's amendments. We are voting on the 27th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's against the 27th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. No one was in favor of -441, 10 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Applause]] At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws (Prints Nos 2333 and 2337). I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u273	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent on 9 June a resolution of the Senate on the above matter to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 9 June, asks that amendments 13, 20, 27 and 29 be rejected and that the other amendments be accepted, except that amendments 10, 14, 15, 19, 22 should be voted on together with amendments 5. - including amendments 6, 9, 21, 23 to 26 and 28; amendment 7, including amendments 8, 11, 12, 30, and amendment 17, shall be voted on, together with amendment 18. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u274	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. We are voting on the first amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's against the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 12 for, against - 440, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the second amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who's against the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 228 - for, 222 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the third amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Who's against the third amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 1 for, against - 448, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 4th amendment with amendments 10, 14, 15, 19 and 22. We vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 4, 10, 14, 15, 19 and 22? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. No one was against 450, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are voting on the 5th amendment, with amendments 6, 9, 21, 23 to 26 and 28. We vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 5, 6, 9, 21, 23 to 26 and 28? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. No one was against 450, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are voting on the 7th amendment with which amendments 8, 11, 12 and 30 are combined. We vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 7, 8, 11, 12 and 30? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 225 - for, against - 227, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. [[Applause]] We are voting on the 13th Senate Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's against the 13th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 228 - for, 223 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 16th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's against the 16th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voices from the room: Against! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[Some Members hit the desktops and chant: Opposite! Opposite! Opposite!]] 453 Members voted. 93 for, 360 against, no one stopped. What's with the yelling? What's with the yelling? The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are voting on the 17th amendment with which Amendment 18. We vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who's against Amendments 17 and 18? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 1 for, against -451, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 20th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's against the 20th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 228 - for, 222 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 27th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's against the 27th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 227 for, 225 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 29th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's against the 29th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 228 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on port reception facilities for ship waste (prints 2332 and 2338). I ask Mr Szałabawka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Five amendments were proposed by the Senate to the Act on Port Equipment for Waste Receiving from Ships, print No 2332. At its meeting on 9 June 2022, the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation considered and recommended the adoption of all amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u276	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. We are voting on the 1st amendment, with amendments 2, 3 and 5. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 1, 2, 3 and 5? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 229 - for, 223 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 4th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's against the Fourth Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 228 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act - Environmental Law and some other laws (prints Nos 2331 and 2336). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u277	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Marshal of the Sejm addressed the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act - Environmental Law and some other laws, print no. 2311, to the Committee on the Protection of the Environment of Natural Resources and Forestry. Today, the committee has examined the amendment and recommends that the High House adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u278	Thank you. We shall vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. We are voting on the amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of rejecting the amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. For - 11, 439 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application of the private prosecutor Hubert Dominik Massalski, represented by the legal adviser Michał Niemirowicz-Szczytta of 31 July 2019 for the consent of the Sejm to the criminal liability of Paweł Lisiecki. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable by a Member with the consent of the Sejm. I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee is based on Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator proposes that the Sejm reject the request for consent to the criminal liability of Paweł Jack Lisiecki. On the basis of the article. 7c paragraph. 6 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and Senator of the Sejm agrees that the Member should be held liable by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the request for consent to the criminal liability of Paweł Jack Lisiecki. We're voting. Who of the Members is in favour of the application of the private prosecutor Hubert Dominik Massalski, represented by the legal adviser Michał Niemirowicz-Szczytta of 31 July 2019 to allow the Sejm to hold Paweł Jack Lisiecki liable for the act set out in this request, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. No one was in favor of - 445, 5 holding back. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the non-approval of the criminal liability of Paweł Lisiecki for the act specified in the application of the private prosecutor Hubert Dominik Massalski represented by the legal adviser Michał Niemirowicz-Szczytta of 31 July 2019. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that authorised entities have submitted requests to supplement the agenda: - Coalition Club of the Left (New Left, Total) on the point: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law amending the law - Penal Code, print No. 1091, - Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens about the point: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the actions that the Council of Ministers intends to take in connection with the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which dismisses the actions brought by Hungary and Poland undermining the conditionality mechanism which makes the use of Union funding subject to compliance by Member States with the principles of the rule of law. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We are voting on the proposal to complete the agenda by item: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the law - Penal Code. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 210 for, 234 against, 3 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal to complete the agenda for a point including information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the actions relating to the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 221 - for, 228 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 2334). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal in print 2334? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Before I announce the outcome of the vote, I would like to welcome a group from the School Complex in Polkowice, from high school and from the technical school. Welcome. 439 Members voted. 424 - for, against - 2, 13 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min. 58 hours 15 min 04]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u279	I'm reopening the session. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Information on the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2021, together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights (prints 2115 and 2310). I ask the President of the National Judicial Council, Ms Dagmara Pawełczyk-Woicka, to present the information. Please, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The establishment of the National Judicial Council was the result of the round table. The National Judicial Council was established on 29 December 1989 by the Act of 20 December 1989 on the National Judicial Council. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland by the Act of 27 July 2001 on the National Council of Courts extended the scope of competence of the Council, among others. co-decision on the justice budget. The Council also referred to the adoption of a set of rules of professional ethics for judges. This resulted in a systematic increase in spending on common justice. The Council shall be the guardian of the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges - Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The Council is also the only authority of the State authorised to submit applications for appointment to the President of the Republic of Poland for all judicial positions. The National Judicial Council is an independent central state body whose functions are linked to the judicial authority. The National Judicial Council shall carry out its tasks by means of a council office. The system, scope, operation and mode of operation of the National Judicial Board and the selection of its members shall be governed by the Act of 12 May 2011 on the National Judicial Council. The Act of 8 December 2017 amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and certain other laws which entered into force on 17 January 2018. This Act amended the way in which the members of the National Judicial Council were elected from among judges. This law has granted the possibility to submit candidates for judges of members of the National Judicial Council to a group of at least 2 000. citizens of the Republic of Poland, who are 18 years old, have full legal capacity and enjoy full public rights, or a group of at least 25 judges in an active state. The final election was awarded to the Sejm, which elects 15 judges from among the candidates submitted for a joint four-year term. The joint term of office of the members of the Board who are judges was introduced in connection with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 20 June 2017 declaring it unconstitutional to understand the term of office of the members of the Board chosen from among the Judges in such a way as to be of an individual nature. The question of the election of members of the National Judicial Council by the Sejm is a source of political dispute. Art. 9a of the Act on the National Judicial Council on the selection of judges of the members of the National Judicial Council by the Sejm was subject to review by the Constitutional Tribunal, which, in its judgment of 25 March 2019 in the case of letters. Act K12/18 considered that Article. 9a shall comply with Article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Point 1 (2) and paragraph 1. 4 in conjunction with Article. 2, Article Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 173 and Art. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The Constitutional Tribunal pointed out that the legislator had transferred the main issues relating to the functioning of the Council to the statutory regulation, leaving in the Constitution only a minimum standard of constitutionality of the National Judicial Council. Both at the stage of the work on the text of the Constitution and at present, the very existence of the National Council of Judicial Affairs constitutionally empowered is not immanently enshrined in the existence of a democratic rule of law. The fact of being a representation of the legal environment is not due to the choice of members of the National Council of Courts, but to the fact that judges are elected to its composition with a high advantage, which is covered by a constitutional guarantee. In 2021, there was no law on the National Judicial Council. amended and adopted by the National Judicial Council of 28 May 2021 amended the Rules of Procedure of the National Judicial Council annexed to Resolution 158/2019 of 24 January 2019 on the Rules of Procedure of the National Judicial Council. The new wording has been given § 5, § 8 and § Article 26a (2) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 Rules of Procedure of the National Judicial Council. According to the amended § Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Judicial Board, a member of the Board shall confirm his participation in other than the plenary session of the work for the board by signing the work card and indicating the type of work to be carried out. After § Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Judicial Council has been added. 1a, according to which a member of the National Judicial Board may participate in a maximum of two problem committees appointed to the Council. In § Article 26a (2) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 changes have been made to enable the Board's committees to hold meetings using electronic means and to vote on a circular basis in the cases set out in separate provisions. Previously, this mode of work was acceptable in the case of the board, the bureau of the board and a team of members of the National Judicial Board. Art. 179 of the Constitution indicates that the National Judicial Council has exclusive competence to present proposals for the appointment of judges to the President. Art. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 of the Constitution provides the basis for a proposal by the National Court of Justice to the Constitutional Tribunal on the compatibility with the Constitution of normative acts in so far as they concern the independence of courts and the independence of judges. On the other hand, pursuant to the Act on the National Council of Courts, it is for the Council to have jurisdiction to submit proposals to the President of the Republic of Poland for the appointment of the examiners of the judicial application and of the prosecutor's application for the positions of court assistants in common courts or to object to the appointment of candidates for these positions; to adopt a set of rules of professional ethics of judges and judicial assistants and to ensure that they are observed; to speak of the status of judges and judges; to express their views on matters relating to the judiciary, judges and judicial assistants brought before it by the President of the Republic of Poland; to adopt a set of rules of professional ethics of judges and judicial assistants; to deliver opinions on drafts of normative acts relating to the judiciary, judges and judicial experts; to give an opinion on a case-by-case basis to the Court of Justice in the context of a judicial application, the extent and the manner of conducting competitions for the application of the Court of Justice and of Justice in the case of the case; to give their consent in the case of formal leave; to the case of the case of a judge of the judge of residence; to resign in the case in the case before of residence; to the case before of formal Ladies and gentlemen, in the next part of the report, I will discuss these particular issues as they were in 2021. The Bureau of the National Judicial Council in 2021 consisted of Mr Leszek Mazur, President of the Council from 27 April 2018 to 21 January 2021, when he resigned as President, Judge Paweł Styrna, who was President of the Council from 29 January 2021, Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Vice-President of the Council from 13 October 2020, Judge of the Constitutional Court of Wiesław Johann, Vice-President of the Council, Judge Marek Jaskułski, President of the Bureau, Judge Joanna Kołodziej-Michałowicz, Member of the Bureau from 19 February 2021, Judge Teresa Kurciusz-Furmanik, Member of the Presidency until 11 January 2021, when the term of office of a member of the National Judicial Council was expired on 12 January 2021, and Judge Dr. Maciej Mitera, member of the Presidency. The Council shall be divided internally into committees. These are standing committees, as follows from the Act: the Commission on disciplinary liability of judges and court assessors, the Budget Commission, the Commission on visits and mirrors, the Commission on professional ethics of judges and court assessors. In 2021, there were also problem committees, ad hoc committees appointed: the Committee on International Relations, the Commission on Complaints, Proposals and petitions, the Commission on Justice Reform, and the Library Commission, removed by Council Resolution 611/2021 of 28 May 2021, and the Commission on the supervision of the processing of personal data. Member of the Court of Justice of 14 January 2021 was Judge Dr. Maciej Mitera, who was dismissed by Resolution No 36/2021 of the National Judicial Council of 14 January 2021. A new press secretary was not selected in 2021. The deputy spokesperson in 2021 was Judge Jarosław Dudzicz. The Programme Board of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office shall also be composed of a member designated by the National Judicial Board. On 29 December 2017, Dariusz Zawistowski, Judge of the Supreme Court, was appointed as a member of the Programme Board, who held his post on the Programme Board for a period of 4 years until his term of office. On 30 November 2021, the Council appointed Judge Jarosław Dudzicz as its representative at the Programme Council of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I would add that the expiry of the mandate in the Council does not result in the expiry of this mandate at the same time. The contest committee for the contest for the judge's application and the prosecutor's application in 2021 appointed Judge Katarzyna Cloud as a representative of the National Judicial Council. I ask you, there is a joint committee in the National Judicial Council in cases of violation of public finances discipline under the Law of 17 December 2004 on liability for breach of public finances discipline. From 12 September 2017 to 20 October 2021, the representative of this committee was Judge Jan Kremer of the Court of Appeal in Cracow, and from 20 October 2021 he was replaced by Judge Leszek Mazur.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u281	We have to deal with this somehow, because we are getting to the end, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u282	I didn't know it was such a short time. Very quickly, then.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u283	15 minutes is a lot of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u284	The National Judicial Council held 20 plenary sessions in 2020, which lasted a total of 77 days. The Council recognised 1792 applications to serve as judges in general courts, administrative courts and the Supreme and Supreme Administrative Court, as well as as as as a judicial assistant in provincial administrative courts, which came from 1713 persons, with a view to presenting selected candidates to the President of the Republic of Poland with a request for appointment. Contrary to the publications, competitions in the Council in 2021 were popular. The Council adopted 1626 resolutions on individual matters, including 556 resolutions on the presentation to the President of proposals for appointment as judges and assessors. In 2021 alone, the National Judicial Council presented to the President 920 persons to serve as a judge in courts of various types and levels or as a judicial assistant in voivodship administrative courts. There were 543 women and 377 men. Teams of members of the National Council...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u285	Madam President, we must find a way to reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u286	I'm finishing up, stats are up.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u287	You had 15 minutes, we added two minutes, it's already 17. If you could sum it up in 30 seconds, that would be very, very nice. You're welcome. [[If there was another marshal, he'd have turned off your mic.]] You don't turn it off either.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u288	2021 was a record year for the activities of the Council of the previous term of office, precisely as regards the identification of individual competition cases. In addition, the Council issued 66 opinions on draft normative acts and presented 18 positions on matters relating to the judiciary and judges. The Council adopted 17 resolutions stating that there are no grounds for carrying out a visit to the Court of Justice, brought an appeal against four unlawful judgments of disciplinary courts. And, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the number of complaints is concerned, it was over 7 000. - this number of citizens' complaints was recognised by the National Judicial Council last year. If I don't have more time, that's where I'm gonna end. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u289	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to ask Mr Mark Ast to present his position to the committee. I've seen your envoy, I see it. [[Voice from the room: I'm here, I'm here.]] You're welcome, sir. [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I do not know whether you should exclude yourself. He's a member of the KRS, so he's not objective.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! There's no rule-of-law requirement, so... [[But ethics is, ethics is.]] And also, Professor, ethics... [[Voice from the room: It has nothing to do with anything.]] ...here she won't be disturbed, so that... Mr. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report on the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2021 in print No 2310. After consulting the Sejm Bureau on 23 March 2022, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above information to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consultation. At its meeting on 7 June 2022, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights took note of this information and held a discussion. It remains for me to report that the discussion was largely substantive, which I am pleased with. Of course, I regret to say, which I also have to say, I called on Members of the Committee to not question the constitutional status of the state body. Unfortunately, no positive response. But I think that for the first time this discussion was really interactive. On the part of the President, the questions have been answered, and the questions that have not been answered may be answered during the parliamentary debate. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u291	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Kazimierz Smolinski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Rado! (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I am pleased to present my position on the information on the activities of the National Judicial Board in 2021 contained in print 2115. This report is a reliable, complete and objective representation of the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2021. Its scheme and content have been repeated by the Chairs of the National Judicial Council for decades on what the President has just said about this organisational structure, the basis of the activities, the various functions performed during the previous year. I don't think you have to say it again. I would like to focus on these activities relating to plenary sessions, which the President spoke about last year. These meetings were 20 and the year before that there were 16 meetings. The Council recognised 1792 applications to serve as judges, and in the previous year there were 879 of them, so it was a significant increase. The Council adopted 1626 resolutions on individual matters, a year earlier it was 920 resolutions. The pandemic period made this job a little less. The National Judicial Council presented the president with proposals for the appointment of 920 judges, and the year before that there were 489 judges. The groups of members of the KRS held 1181 meetings and a year earlier were 434 meetings. Members interviewed 261 candidates. The Council also issued 66 opinions on draft implementing acts and adopted 17 resolutions stating no grounds for visiting. She also appealed to the Supreme Court against four unlawful judgments of the disciplinary court, the court of first instance. I think it is worth recalling here that these statistics are similar to what can be seen in the 2016 report for 2015. The council's activity was similar in those years. I think that the work of the Council in the international arena deserves particular emphasis. The Council participated in 13 events related to the activities of the Council, 8 conferences, 1 meeting at the Council's headquarters, 4 on-line conferences. The Council maintained ongoing contacts with other international organisations, had a dialogue with the European Network of Judicial Councils. She was involved... [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: They ruled her out.]] ...in dialogue. Here you go. Here's a comment. The Council was unlawfully removed from a private organisation, namely the European Judicial Council Network. This network does not cover all states, because not everywhere such a National Judicial Council... [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: This does not stick together.]] Mr. Marshal, can I have this dialogue? I would very much like to discuss this with the Member, but I do not think this is a good place.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u293	If I can advise you on the basis of three years of my experience, do not engage in dialogue, just do your job.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u294	Your friends are just bothering me.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u295	This happens both on the left and on the right side of the room. Therefore, I think you'll be all right. I'll help you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u296	Thank you for your help, Marshal. Cooperation was also taking place with the Council of Europe as part of the annual procedure for assessing the functioning of democratic institutions in the countries of the Council of Europe. The Council has been in contact with the rapporteurs of the monitoring committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. There were also online meetings. The Council also kept in touch with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Judge Teresa Kurciusz-Furmanik and then Judge Jędrzej Kondek participated in the work of the Council of Europe Consultative Council of European Judges. On 4 November 2021, management meetings were also held with a delegation from the Council of Europe. Given the content of this report, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I welcome this information on the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2021. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u297	Thank you very much. I'm glad my advice worked. [[Voice from the room: We're about to discuss.]] Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are meeting today at a debate that should not really be, because we are talking about a report from a ghost body, a body that de facto does not exist. As you know, the KRS is not a body which is recognised under Polish or European law. This is a body that, from the point of view of the law, just doesn't exist. It exists only in the heads of politicians of PiS, Solidarna Polska. There is a purpose to spoil democracy and the principles of constitutional order. Even though it is part of the dispute with the European Union about KPOs, it is about billions of euros for the development of the economy. We're debating something today that will only ignite this dispute. [[What milestone is that written in?]] We all know the legend of the Flying Dutch, the kind of ghost ship that haunted sailors and was the bearer of misery at sea. The same is true of the neo-KRS. This is a pseudo-institution that is persecuting the Polish justice system, persecuting democracy. [[There's no such thing as a neo-KRS. That's not what we're talking about.]] It's just trouble and damage. This assessment was recently confirmed by the Supreme Court, which, by a resolution of seven judges, ruled that the 2017 National Council of Courts was not the same body as the constitutional body, whose composition was described in the Constitution, in Article. 187. KRS isn't here. But there's a neo-KRS, a tacky fake institution that used to be. [[It's not about that. There's no neo-KRS.]] The KRS was expelled from the European Network of Judicial Councils precisely because it does not exist as an organ which is independent of politicians, and nobody except Kaczyński and Ziobra recognizes it. However, it is one of the most expensive counterfeits in the history of Poland. Total expenditure on diet only in 2021 amounted to almost PLN 3 million, on average to around 100,000. zł per head. Compared to 2020, a significant increase in diets was observed, e.g. Judge Styrna took 68 thousand from the neo-KRS in 2020, a year later 169 thousand. PLN, which is about 100,000. zł more. That's what Judge Mither got. How many working days? Madam President said: 77. According to the findings of Judge Starosta, over the last four years neo-KRS members have earned an additional 300-500 thousand. zł, record player - 670 thousand. zł. And that's extra money beyond the basic salary. I think that many Polish borrowers dream of such an injection of cash and a one-off payment of the loan. Do you understand? An additional 670 thousand. zł on apanasia for working in a non-existent body. That's what this fight between Jarosław Kaczyński and fat cats looks like. These cats swell from year to year, hundreds of thousands of zlotys for such political fidelity. You just don't have any shame. You have no shame. As if that were not enough, these warm jobs are also a device for fast, incredibly strange promotions of neo-KRS members and their families. This body is not needed by anyone, it is not necessary for Poles, it serves only its members, political nominators and people associated with them to earn money. Because the people who sit in the neo-KRS apply massly to higher judges. The standard should be not to apply for promotion in the course of sitting on the council, because such a candidate must be voted on by his colleagues on the board and therefore act objectively. And what do political nominees in the neoKRS do? They are seeking their own promotions to secure their existence for the future and to have something of the fact that they supported the destruction of the independence of the Polish judiciary. Here are some interesting cases of neo-KRS members reported by the press. Ms Dagmara Pawełczyk-Woicka - promotion, Grzegorz Furmankiewicz - promotion, Rafał Puchalski - promotion, Dariusz Drajewicz - promotion, Joanna Kołodziej - promotion, Maciej Nawacki - promotion, even double, because first to the district court, then to the Supreme Administrative Court. They don't forget their family either. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a report on the action of an authority that usurps its constitutionality, it works profusely. The way it works exposes Poles to the blockade of funds from the National Plan for Reconstruction and the next budget of the European Union. This report will be of absolute benefit to one in the course of the infringement of budgetary discipline procedure (the bell). This paper doesn't deserve to be dealt with by the High House. It's unnecessary, just as it doesn't need neo-KRS. For these reasons, the Civic Coalition proposes that this report be rejected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u299	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u300	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ex iniuria non oritur ius, the law is not born out of lawlessness - said the Romans. The concept of the state according to the PiS was not yet known. The PiS state, instead of upholding the rule of law, protects its political interests - the ruling formation. In a state of lawlessness and injustice, a good change can do anything. In the Constitution of the Republic of Poland in art. 186 We will read that the National Courts Council protects the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. However, the neo-KRS is not an independent body. There are unconstitutionally appointed political officers in it. The judges appointed by the neo-KRS have been appointed in a procedure that is not free from political pressure, so they do not give guarantees of independence. This was decided a year ago by European tribunals, which was ruled by the Polish Supreme Court and we have already talked about it several times, and in this House, and during the work in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. The Neo-KRS is not an independent body, it does not guarantee an objective and impartial procedure for the election of judges and consequently disqualifies any judicial nominations to the KRS. As every year we are here to discuss information from the activities of the National Judicial Council, this time next year - 2021. But how to evaluate the activity of a creation, whose vocation and functioning are in gross contradiction with the constitution or even a violation of constitutional and constitutional principles: the right of the citizen to an independent court, a rule of law and a democratic rule of law. A body which, in this House, has once again been elected in violation of the Constitution, namely the Article, by the right-wing votes of the State. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3. Once again for your next term, you have chosen a new old neo-KRS. Old, as many as 14 of the previous 15 members ran again and were re-elected. In sin, the newly conceived and reproduced neo-KRS produces the fruit of the poisoned tree - subsequent questionable judicial nominations. Neo-KRS has become the key to the authoritarian power to take over the judiciary. These are the seven sins of the major KRS. Yummy - because lack of authority and work is not a disadvantage here and does not interfere with politically giving access to the neo-rade. Greed - a double diet for attending meetings and committees, mainly remote ones, has become a clever way for this board to make up for it. Impureness - the original sin of the illegal acquisition of control and politicization of the KRS by the current authority. Gravity - functions, promotions, financial fructs, housing and function allowances. Nepotism - profitable jobs for family members. Jealousy - to colleagues by profession, turned into obedient and institutional destruction of disobedient powers on their order. Anger, that is, heyt - heyt on order has become the basic tool of bad change, insulting and destroying anyone who opposes the party line, institutionalizing hate speech by neo-KRS officers. Sloth and fatigue - it is a sin that threatens us all, citizens and citizens, tired of the deformity of the Polish justice system and the destruction of the rule of law in our country. As far as information is concerned, what's there to comment on? Historical drawing, composition, list of competences, list of committees, formulas as prescribed in the manual. All the things you can find in your web browser, if it's anyone's interest, all the things that nothing results from. Does the substantive value and content of the information correspond to the quality and quantity of work, the number of days worked in this Council, by this Council? Well, what a KRS, such information and such an appearance. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u301	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u302	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today we have such an eloquent coincidence. Votes before less than 2 hours on the Senate's amendments aimed at saving the rule of law in Poland, showing both here, in the country and outside that we have the will to rectify the rule of law. Unfortunately, most of the Sejm failed this exam. I hope she is aware of the consequences today, tomorrow and in the coming months or years of her decision. Today, after less than 2 hours, we are discussing the report of the National Judicial Council, and this is what we are focusing on today. The changes in the National Judicial Council, variously assessed, by me extremely critical, were this flagship step, the stage of Zbigniew Ziobra and its reforms on the road to the recovery of the justice system. As Zbigniew Ziobro and Jarosław Kaczyński came to power in 2015, they swore that all these elements, changes in justice institutions, would give citizens a fair justice system, accessible to every citizen, cheaper, acting in a friendly way, guaranteeing solutions to citizens in a much better way than before. Today, Madam President, it is about seven years from the time when, in total, you are quite close, Minister Ziobro has come to work. Today, this report could be shown by the National Judicial Council, which in the context of the 7-year-old activities of your politically close person, his political camp, these several hundred legislative changes have been made from those promises you have made. The time limits in the courts break further records, the handling of further cases raises concerns, concerns Poles. The poorly functioning justice system also translates into economic life of Poland. There is no dynamically developing economy with limp judiciary, but one with the other is excluded. You assured me it would be great in this respect too. It's not. There is also something missing in this report about access to justice, to a court with which it is also worse and worse according to any research, it is much more expensive, and it is much more difficult. There was no evidence in this presentation that these great reforms, in which you would not want to participate, had any tangible effect. I will say, Madam President, that many people were deceived seven years ago by these slogans, that it would be better that it was fairer. They're very clear about it today. Very often I quote from this speaker an example of Mr Mark Kubala, one of those who formed an association of victims of justice. He often writes to me as we speak, and this also mentions: remind me of my case, please remind me that I trusted and Ziobro and his allies deceived me. 4 years waiting for an emergency complaint to be dealt with. This was not enough, Madam President, and today it is worth mentioning, because instead of improving, however you are here from the right side of the room. I want you to complain about any high-flying slogans you'd put up, and finally how many epithets you'd use against the opposition, it's much worse. We have to explain ourselves, we have to be ashamed (the bell) of professionals who evaluate the changes made. There will finally be a big problem before us, sooner or later, what about this acquis as many years of operation of the National Judicial Council, because you will change, I hope, your location when it comes to being in the Sejm. There will be a big problem, as it will restore it to normal tracks, with great consequences for Poland, because it will not be from PiS's cash register that compensation for errors in the functioning of the justice system will be paid, only the Polish state will pay compensation for defective functioning justice system. This whole - ending, Mr. Marshal - urges us to join in with the motion to reject the report of the National Judicial Council for 2021. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u303	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u304	God bless you! - judges and defendants. I have personal experience with the justice system, deeper, multi-generational traditions that go back to previous regimes. I stood before the post-peerel courts myself as a judge and a witness, and as an observer, as a documentalist. I've documented how injustice is done in this resort, because of course this is a very sad landscape, this is a tragic picture. This is the moment, this debate, which should focus public attention and involve a lot of parliamentarians, here in the open room, that is already over. Everyone knows that nothing will change anyway, because the basic principle of the system in the Republic of Poland III and half remains preserved, defined and diagnosed by the excellent editor Stanisław Michalkiewicz. The rule is, you don't touch ours, we don't touch yours. [[That's not true!]] And this principle you all follow, and the left, and the left, and the right, and you dig, but not above the ankles. Take a look at the KRS website. What a ridicule it is to get by the KRS for some thunderbolt of banging in connection with the war of the Moskali with the Ukrainians. Where was this KRS when for the past two years the law was violated at all levels and levels, when the Poles were deprived of their constitutional rights, deprived of their health, life on the pretext of fighting a supposed pandemic? There was no KRS. This is actually a raccoon, a grotesque, it's just a possible brawl, exchanging not ours and disloyal to our party headquarters for ours, and nothing changes. Here the law was broken until the crime, and the KRS kept silent, which has a lot to say in other matters, when it's in the mainstream, when it's politically correct. So of course the Confederacy is outside of this dispute and does not take any of these parties because they are both to be exchanged. Of course, 40 already... 30 years have passed since Adam Strzembosz, the minister, the judge, said that the state of the judge will clear itself. He did not purify himself, and you do not purify Him. You can say that you are perfumed by this reservoir of impureness, multigenerational post-peerel judicial staff, new deposits, because new generations have already been raised. After all, these are all clans so as not to tell the judge's ring, the prosecutors, overgrown with the iniquities of various services and resorts. Unfortunately, you have been patrons of this iniquity for years, and you are giving it new... You're wrapping in a new piece of paper that doesn't smell good.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u305	Thank you very much, sir. Before I ask Mr Tomasz Zimoch, I would like to greet everyone from the primary school of Sufczyn who is watching us in accordance with the centuries-old tradition. [[Applause]] Welcome, children, welcome, educators, welcome, girls and boys. I'm glad you're here and looking at our hard work. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u306	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Judge! Why did you critically assess a resolution of the Supreme Court a few days ago, which believes that the National Court of Justice is not the same body as the Constitutional Authority? Do you think the board's representative? How do we explain frequent vocals at the National Judicial Council? I was hoping that, unlike in previous years, you would present information about the activities of the National Judicial Council. Once again, it is more than 100-page information that was created on the basis of: copy - paste. Not only are the first and last sentences identical. Identical is many, many pages. I already talked about it at the committee meeting. I'll admit, you surprised me with today's e-mail because you announced that you wouldn't be able to copy the information next year. However, you have not answered any questions before the Parliamentary Commission or in this e-mail to me, which is why I am asking more. The National Judicial Council considered 1792 applications for judges, presented 920 nominations to the President, and held only 261 interviews with candidates and two with visitors. On what grounds So, Your Honor, the KRS was conducting other proceedings? The decisions of international tribunals contain critical opinions on the National Courts. Why is there not even half a sentence on this in the information for the Sejm? Why is the position of the National Courts on matters before international tribunals always in line with the position of the governing camp? Why not say a word in this information about the Grząt case against Poland? After all, the European Court of Human Rights has recognised that the right to complete the term of office of a member of the National Court of Justice is based on the fact that the National Courts of Justice is the body provided for in the Constitution to protect the independence of courts and judges. On page 102, we read: Despite the suspension of the membership of the National Courts of Justice in the European Judicial Council Network, there was a dialogue. Your Honor, after all, the National Court of Justice has ultimately lost its status as a member because it has been recognised that it is not independent of the executive and legislative authority, but that it must guarantee support for the independence of the judiciary. I've reviewed all the last year's opinions and positions of the National Judicial Council. Why it is almost forbidden for judges to participate in social, charitable actions, and for example there is no objection, even in the case of an opinion on the Ministry's project on rehabilitation of minors. The National Judicial Council in accordance with the Constitution must uphold the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. It is reasonable for me to quote my words from a year ago that was spoken from this speaker during the discussion of the previous report. You weren't sitting down, you were sitting there, President Styrn. But the question is valid: Why is the National Judicial Council afraid to stand up for many judges? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Judge, solidarity - one of the most beautiful words. Did you write a letter to defend the judges removed from work? Silence in this case is not gold, it is a shame. The word "Solidarity" was denied. [[Applause]] Therefore, the National Judicial Council is also, and this is a great, losing 2021. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u307	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the question has been asked by 18 Members. Anyone else want to sign up? I'm closing the list. I set the time for questioning and commenting - 1 minute. I cordially invite Mr Jan Szopiński from the parliamentary club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u308	Mr. Marshal! Judge! Reading this report, I cannot resist the impression that the most significant achievement of the National Judicial Council in 2021, of course, apart from being in its composition and convincing Poles that nothing had happened, was the liquidation of the library council of this institution consisting of five people, including four with doctoral degrees. In addition, in the report of the National Judicial Council, we have a description of its fight against the pandemic. Not a word of controversy that raises the Council's composition among judges, lawyers and scientists related to the wider justice system and the international community. In fact, there is no such question as to be expected to be a satisfactory answer. Therefore, it remains only to wish the Council a lasting bliss and to wish Poles rapid and inevitable changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u309	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I know that three weeks in office is not much, but I would like to ask you if you have taken up the problem of organising the council's work in the context of these diets that the Supreme Audit Chamber is talking about, which the media are reporting, of nearly 2,900 thousand. zł. The Vice-President of the Council received 244 thousand. That's close to the second person in the country, about 60,000. More than Vice-Marshals of the Sejm. A colleague of the Vice-President, Mr Mularczyk, has earned as much as a number of Members all year round. I would therefore like to ask whether Madam President wants to reorganise this so that it is more transparent. The second point concerns the participation of the KRS in the work of the European Judicial Councils Network. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You write in the report that this decision was unlawful, incompatible with the statute of that network. In view of the above, I would like to ask what legal steps our National Courts have taken to prove that the decision of the European Judicial Councils Network to suspend the National Courts was unlawful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u311	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk. Is it? There isn't. Mrs Claudia Jachir, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u312	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The European Court of Human Rights and the TSEU have made it clear that the politicised neo-KRS is a non-constitutional body and it simply does not exist. Even the president isn't here. The experts agree that until we eliminate neo-KRS and we will not appoint it in constitutional mode until all neo-KRS nominators lose their jobs, and the promoted judges will not return to their previous positions, absolutely all of them, from those appointed to judges in common courts, administrative courts or NSAs, to the Supreme Court, until we can talk about the overthrow of the rule of law in Poland. Nor can we talk about restoring the rule of law today after you rejected all the Senate amendments to the Supreme Court Act. Poles suffer through this and will suffer further because the money from the Union that belongs to us, and not to you, Poles and Poles, will not come (the bell). But the time will come for us to restore the rule of law in Poland. We're gonna reverse all your bad laws. It's gonna be beautiful, it's gonna be normal, it's gonna be law-abiding. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u313	Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. [[You'll see, you'll see.]] There isn't. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u314	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will start by reflecting on the fact that the neo-Judges' acceptance of constitutional violations at the establishment of the neo-KRS is costly for the PiS. Hence these huge diets, hence these huge payouts - because such people just have to pay dearly. But back to the report itself: there is a question of throwing KRS out of the European Judicial Council Network. You write in the report that this decision is incompatible with the statute and does not have legal effect. Does this mean that you think you still belong to the European Judicial Councils Network (the Bell) or not? Second question. If you believe that breaking the law does not have legal effect, then in the same situation there is a neo-KRS - it does not actually exist because it was established when the constitution was broken. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u315	Thank you very much. Mrs Margaret Sekuła-Szmajdzińska, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The KRS is a fundamental problem for the justice system. The changes made in 2018 regarding the KRS consisted of a change in the selection of the members of the KRS. Previously, 15 members were elected by judges from among their ranks. This has been the case since 1989, when the KRS was founded. Interestingly, one of the authors of such a solution was Jarosław Kaczyński, who participated in the work of the system podtable within the round table. For many years, this did not give rise to doubt until the time of good change. The Polish justice system suffers from a systemic dysfunction associated with the decision-making process of judges, which needs to be fixed. It has to be changed. When will this shameful time end? Just one more word about the Spanish elections. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is true that the members of the Supreme Court are elected by the Cortes, or parliament, but the choice itself is preceded by the selection and evaluation of the candidates carried out exclusively by the judges. Only the judges do the filings, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u317	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Neo-KRS - illegally, contrary to the constitution established body, ghost ship. Only in sailing legends such a ship was a divine punishment, and here is a premeditated action aimed at destroying the judicial system. There are flowers in your report, too. December 17th Ub. Mr Neo-KRS considered that support for charity activities was, in principle, right, but could give rise to reasonable doubt as to the impartiality of the judge. Since we already have representatives of this body, explain why this absurd and abstract position is so absurd. Or, for example, The Polish judge can support the collection of Caritas Poland? Or can a Polish judge make a donation to a tray in the church without doubt about his impartiality? On what basis do you take such an absurd (Ringing) position? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u319	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u320	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! When we look for information, which means expression of cataloguing, e.g. On the Internet, in search results information about Hitler's, Ubeck's, Stalin's, etc. appears. Meanwhile, Judge Radzik, who is a deputy disciplinary officer, just called the office of the Chief Disciplinary Officer operating at the KRS Office in Warsaw. I have two questions for the honorable ladies. First of all, which tradition did you refer to as Judge Radzik's office, calling the spokesperson's office a catholic? Was it Ubeck's tradition, Esbeck's tradition, Stalin's? Ladies should know, it's the same office. And the second question: Did the Commission on disciplinary liability of judges and court assessors, whose task is, after all, to submit proposals to the Council (the bell) for demanding disciplinary action, notice in this vileness of Judge Radzik something reprehensible and have it taken any action against this black sheep, which disgraces the name of the judge's environment, calling the seat of the disciplinary spokesman a catholic? Has the KRS noticed anything inappropriate about Judge Radzik's actions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u321	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the violation of the rule of law in Poland in the context of the Fund for Reconstruction, as well as the neo-KRS, that pseudo-izza you report here. Here is an important part of this resolution: Since the outbreak of the war in Ukraine, the Polish authorities have taken a number of actions that are directly contrary to the three conditions laid down by the President of the European Commission. First, on 25 February, the Polish judge Anna Głowacka was suspended for the application of European law and judgments of European courts. Secondly, the Polish President handed over the nominations to over 200 new, incorrectly appointed at the request of the neo-KRS so-called. to the judges, including four nominations to the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen! This report is not a report on the activities of the National Judicial Council, it's her fakes, the neo-KRS. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This report is not worth the paper on which it was printed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u323	Thank you. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u324	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Listening to this information, I get the feeling that people in the neo-KRS are living in some kind of matrix. In accordance with the Constitution, the National Judicial Council upholds the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. Meanwhile, the neo-KRS does nothing and passively looks at the persecutions of judges for pranks involving the application of EU law and the Constitution. Looks like Judge Juszczyszyn's back in court, but so you can harass him again with a transfer to another department. But what about the others you're repressing? When will you stop stalking judges like Olympia Barańska-Maluszek, Bartłomiej Przymusiński, Piotr Gąciarki, Monika Cięmiega or Igor Tuley? This piece of information today has absolutely nothing to do with the real KRS. Until the National Judicial Council becomes independent and until all the judges have ceased to be persecuted by you, the citizen will not be able to rely on an independent court in any case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] No lies and no powdering of shit can change that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u325	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u326	Maybe I'll find out by the way, Mr. Reporter, why you threw it away, you personally, into the basket... You were addressed with a draft, an amendment, in fact, a law that would cut the Gordian knot - it sounds too noisy - it is this tangle of unbecoming connections, dependency, history. This is a project of our colleague James Kalus - our legal office - presented and formally submitted by us, and as a bill, and as an amendment. Drawn jury, selected for this work from the ranks of existing jurors, creating jury courts which would be mandatoryly referred to any disciplinary matter. It would allow you to come out of this spelled circle of pushing between yours and ours. But it (the bell) would knock the reins out of your hands, the leashes, the strings to draw the judge's state. So the question is, what have you done with this beautiful project of ours? Why did you waste it? What do you think of him personally? Isn't it true that the most important thing to maintain influence is the ability to remotely control the state of the judge?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u327	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Robert Kropiwnicki from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. 186 of the Constitution states that the National Judicial Council protects the independence of the courts and the independence of the judiciary. I said, what did you do about it? What has the National Court of Justice done in recent years and recent years to carry out this fundamental constitutional obligation? How did you defend the judges who were being disciplined? Have you spoken on this matter? Have you asked the Ombudsman for any positions on the basis of which he punishes the judges? What have you done to defend judges and judges' independence? Or were you just taking care of your own jobs? Because that's what I have another question for you. How many of you are applying for promotions? How many of you are asking yourself to improve your existence and get promoted to a higher court? How many of you want to be in district court, appeal court or Supreme Court? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it's a granda that judges, members of the KRS are running for their own to get promoted. How many judges' vacancies are there? What did you do in the hater's affair? What have you done to defend the dignity of the judges? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u329	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Benedykt Zientarski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask as a longtime member of the National Council of Judicial Affairs led by the most outstanding lawyers: Mr Stanisław Dąbrowski, legend of Solidarity, Roman Hauser, Dariusz Zawistowski, when the standard was clear criteria for promotions, among others. the stability of decisions, the timeliness of reasons. But I'm also asking about the standards, because I myself defended a judge who was accused by one of the police officers that he might be under the influence of alcohol. There was no breathalyzer at the time, and therefore he was not accused, blamed for his refusal, but for the fact that he himself, on his own initiative, did not lead to an explanation of doubts. Because there's no doubt about the judge. I ask: What did Nawatki do to explain his doubts about his letter of support? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u331	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Ast, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u332	Mr. Marshal! Question to the Chairman of the National Judicial Council: Is it true that several thousand judges, lawyers, prosecutors, assesors have participated in the nomination proceedings since 2019, that the result of these proceedings was more than 3,000. nomination requests to the President of the Republic of Poland that more than 2 thousand. Did you hand over the nomination to the judges? Does this not mean, however, that the vast majority of the judicial community recognize the status of the National Judicial Council? 'Cause I don't think there's any better proof of that. To the opposition: dears, do you not think that any of your ritual spells of neo-KRS (the bell) will not cause simply the National Council of the judiciary to cease to work, that the only way to change the existing state of affairs - therefore I commended Mrs Claudia Jachira - is to win elections and change existing law? [[Voice from the room: Yes, it will.]] [[Voice from the hall: For the praise of Claudia Jachira you will have a light head start, but only light.]] [[On the rug to the chairman's office that you praise me for something.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u333	You can see how nice it's been. [[Voice from the hall: If such a marshal leads, it is pleasant.]] Please, Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u334	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President, is it true that the European Network of Judicial Councils is a private organisation that is not in any structure of the European Union and that this network does not include Austria, the Czech Republic, Cyprus, Finland, Estonia, Luxembourg, Germany, Sweden? [[Voice from the hall: There is no advice.]] [[Voice from the hall: How is this a private organization? Who's the owner?]] Then, is it true that, in the previous structure, the KRS was an institution of absolute secrecy, that no reports or actions were broadcasted, were not transparent, that nominations were held in a completely private, non-transparent manner? [[Voice from the room: What? When?]] Listen to me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I asked the president a question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u335	Mr Tomasz Zimoch, near Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u336	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Judge! Two more questions. The National Judicial Council took the stand, called on judges not to violate ethics, principles of good behaviour on social media. It's just in short. Please confirm my conviction - I say it with a wink, of course - that it is the judges of the haters. Seriously, tell me what the position of the National Judicial Council is about these haters. And another question. Do you feel comfortable when there is now a judge next to you who, during the meeting of the judges, tore up draft resolutions adopted by other judges, and today, contrary to the rules, sends him on leave to judge Paul Juszczyszyn, who is not in accordance with the rules, to move him to another department? And to Mr Smolinski: Mr Smolinski, there is a line of absurdity somewhere. You like sports, so I'll answer you in the easiest way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does it mean that in many countries we do not ski, that we will not appreciate the success of Polish ski jumpers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u337	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Maria Piekarska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u338	My dear Mr. Marshal! Judge! I have this question: What are you going to do, what are you going to do, what are you going to do, to avoid this embarrassment - it's hard to say otherwise - that you're making money to organize more meetings, some pseudodebat, which means nothing, e.g. in the case of information on what books to buy in the library? That's how you can earn a second salary. That's one question. Second question. Judge Manowska, the first president of the Supreme Court, the professor gave a very interesting interview. I know, because I asked you at the committee hearing that you read this interview. Do you agree with President Manowska that, in addition to the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber, the National Judicial Council must also be reformed? Do you think that the prosecution's fourth year has been nearly four years, explaining the heifer scandal isn't just a scandal? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one last question. Don't you feel that way, or do I know, the taste of you being the head of the KRS in a situation where you're a colleague of the Minister of Justice? I'm also saying this in such a context that your personal career got a little faster just when that Minister of Justice came along. [[Voice from the room: He treats everyone equally.]] Maybe it's a coincidence, but I don't believe in coincidences because I've lived too long. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u339	Thank you. Mr President, I will answer you because you wanted me to shorten my speech. I did not shorten this statement because I extended the speech by four minutes to the Chairman of the National Judicial Council. [[Voice from the room: You've noticed before.]] Imagine trying and trying to do this in a fair way. Madam President of the Dagmar Pawełczyk-Woick National Judicial Council. We invite the president to speak. I have a question. Are you the rapporteur... [[Voice from the room: Yes, there was a question, I think.]] But that was a brief question, Mr. President. [[Voice from the room: It will also be a brief answer.]] Okay, I'm starting to like it now. I remember the time this time. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u340	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! These questions were so many that it was not possible to answer all of them, but some of them concerned issues that are not related to the report, so let me not answer all the questions that have been raised here. From some of the statements made by your Members, I understand how much misunderstanding is still taking place in connection with the functioning of the National Judicial Council as an institution, with what this National Judicial Council is really doing. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You destroy, and we defend.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the National Judicial Council is neither a disciplinary court nor a body appointed to administer the courts, i.e. all these comments concerning the efficiency of judicial proceedings, the quality of these proceedings do not directly concern us. I won't speak here. The National Judicial Council, if you translate it into human language, is such a department of the judiciary, and the President is such a great employer. That's the simplest way to put it. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that it is the judges who were appointed at the request of the National Judicial Council that are the most attacked - I regret to say that they are said to be expelled from their profession or return from where they came from - the National Judicial Council... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: They will return from where they came from.]] ...has mainly taken action to defend the independence of these judges. It's natural because they're under attack. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: These are not judges. The Neo-Judges.]] With regard to judges who appear in the media and are often mentioned as defenders of independence, independence, at least as regards some, I can say that their removal from duty was caused by the damage they did to citizens. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if the judge refuses to give a declaration of enforceability, which is an act... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: It is in their defence that a parliament is present. What are you saying?]] ...which is to be carried out by a referee - it is not a judicial act, it is not a decision of independent cases - it is only a demonstration that he refuses to give a declaration of enforceability, because in a lower court court he considers that he will not accept an appeal court which has dismissed the appeal... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: These are brave judges. It was in their defense that the parliament stood up.]] Mrs. Member! Those brave judges, one of those brave judges, they're sending me cards, unless they're 20, they're open cards. Some are: "Thank you very much for your holiday, photo with Harvard, learn, learn, because science is the power of key, doctor - signature, master - me to emphasize that I stand below him. [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I think that's a good thing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, all the actions taken by the presidents, because we also knew them from the media, as you know, related to non-compliance, non-recognition of the status of other judges, were taken in defence of the citizens. Because, ladies and gentlemen, even from this resolution, the seven judges of the Criminal Chamber... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What are you saying?]] ...it does not appear that someone does not recognise the status of these judges in the sense of the right to remuneration, and therefore it was not in the interests of those judges in the sense of their remuneration. As for Mr Zimoch's question, I have already answered. There is a written reply prepared, sir, and you will receive it. I have it here, but I'm not gonna read it because it's a waste of time. I apologize for the form of the report. Here I will file a complaint against Mr Ast, he tricked me, said I had any time. I'm so sorry. Therefore, this report was not laid down in such a formula as it should have been, because there may have been more important elements, but it is written. [[Voice from the Chamber: Oh, sir. It's not nice to mess around like that.]] With regard to the remuneration of the members of the council, it is all up to the Sejm, the Parliament. These are solutions that have been in force since 2011. These are very large diets, I agree, but, ladies and gentlemen, such a system of remuneration does not exist from now on - since 2011. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But they did not introduce...]] On the other hand... I'm sorry, this is a misunderstanding. The remote committees were operating during... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz:...only 30 minutes remotely.]] I have no idea, because... Now there is such a notebook in place and it is necessary to write in detail what a particular member of the council did. But, Madame, I can hear you, and I can't, I'm sorry, get my thoughts together. Because this is perhaps an important issue, the issue of finance, so I'll say yes. [[Voice from the room: Don't you want to share the protocols?]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: This is missing the truth.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, please respond.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: You have asked the question yourself, Member.]] [[The voice in the room: You asked a question, now you won't let me answer it. How can you do that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u341	Ladies and gentlemen, may I? Do you have... [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: It is difficult to say, because this is missing the truth.]] [[Voice from the room: Waiting for reaction.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u342	NIK just filed...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u343	May I? May I? Excuse me, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm talking to you. As you responded to the opposition's speech, so I have a proposal (Applause)... Don't move your head, sir, because you know exactly how the proceedings are conducted. From this point on, we may conclude that some do not interrupt during their speeches. If we do, that's the rule we're going to introduce. I didn't make that rule because some of them were worthy of each other. So if that's what you're asking, I'm asking one and the other for reason. Madam President, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u344	Thank you very much. Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You say there are no double diets as they are.) I talked about this at the committee meeting, I thought you were listening. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I listened.]] We have control of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which was positive with regard to the board's finances in 2021. So if there are doubts as to the reliability of this check, then we must turn to the Supreme Audit Chamber, because I am not responsible for this institution. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the so-called. A double diet, it wasn't anything like that. On the other hand, if a member of the Council participates in the work of the Council, it is as if an ex lege should be paid to him in accordance with the provisions of the Act. I do not know what other work the individual members of the council - because we did not prepare for this report in such detail - were doing the same day for the council except that they participated in some committee. Remote committees actually took place in relation to the pandemic, because this is where the rules have changed. It's also changed its rules of procedure. Different state institutions functioned differently. I think you had a remote vote and a sitting. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: And the next day a few hours, and in his pocket.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the judges are concerned, it's all in the hands of the state. You can amend the provisions of the Act in such a way that the members of the National Council of Courts will not be able to apply for higher judicial positions. In previous Council terms there were also such requests to the President, some met with acceptance of the head of state, the President of the Republic of Poland, some did not. In the previous term of office of the National Judicial Council, as I said in the case of the members of the Board, two people were actually promoted. Among these two people is me. That's the truth, and you're actually right. Nor are we, Mr Braun, an institution to assess the correctness of laws announced by Parliament or by ministerial regulations on all matters. We... [[...in the face of lawlessness...]] It's about the pandemic. [[...systemic lawlessness, committed to crime. 200,000. excessive deaths. Judges, copper foreheads, water in the mouth.]] The Member knows that we are not the body set up to evaluate these regulations... [[If you are silent about this, please step off the stage and do not speak in any other way.]] [[Voice from the room: What is this, marshal?]] When it comes to talking to candidates... [[Please come down...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u345	Excuse me. Mr President, could you give yourself a little peace of mind? Just a little bit. Please, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u346	Ladies and gentlemen, two more things. I'll do my best. With regard to the system of selecting the best candidate in the competitions, of course, there are no mandatory hearings of candidates in addition to the competition for the Supreme Court. We're based on documents. These documents are collected earlier, at the stage of this procedure before the Presidents of the courts. So we have an assessment of the qualifications made by the Visitor, we have an assessment of the college and various other recommendations that the candidate is willing to submit, as well as the judge's personal records, if this is the judge, or the lawyer or counsellor from which he can be concluded what his career was like. So we can increase that number of hearings. Last year, there was as much as I had pointed out to the Member. As far as the European Network of Judicial Councils is concerned, I am not going to reveal any secret of the highest rank, if I say that at the moment when we started to operate, we were visited by a delegation from the European Network of Judicial Councils and this conversation was in such a way that I soon realized that we would be removed from the network within some expected time. I asked a friend from one of the Baltic countries who was, if they would remove us from this network. He twisted his head that he did, just doesn't know when. Therefore, I offered my colleagues to get off this network immediately before they removed us. My colleagues did not accept this proposal. It's a permanent dialogue. Finally, we were suspended from the European Judicial Council Network. We did not accept this suspension because it was not provided for in the Statute. We're not questioning that we've been removed from the network because that's a fact. On the other hand, we did not take part in this meeting, because it would just be me standing under the hierarchy, without the right to vote, because this suspension in the network of councils resulted in the fact that we did not have our votes. Fortunately - because at first they were all against us - this decision, as far as I know, did not come so glamorously, unambiguously against us. So here, you could say, was some success of the council. Indeed, there is still an exchange of correspondence with the European Network of Judicial Councils and dialogue is maintained. We're not offended, we're not gonna sue this network before... There'd be a court in the Netherlands, because that's where the organization is based. So we don't have plans. Unless the council in gromio obliges the president to speak on such a matter. As far as the board's position on charity is concerned, I already told the committee that this is a big misunderstanding because we don't ban judges, God forbid charity. We were just paying attention not to charity using the status of judge so as not to score points among citizens. This position was adopted as a result of a citizen's complaint, not on our own initiative. We have simply recognised the whole issue and the ethics committee has proposed a resolution to the Council on the content which you know because it is the position of the Council. As far as the social media activities of judges are concerned, I would ask you to do so. The hater thing, I'm the one who can't say anything about it. These are materials for me as a judge, as a media judge. And I never talk about it, I don't judge a case based on media material that I can't verify. I'm not conducting any of this or any investigation. If there have been acts of hate speech, then, of course, this position of the National Judicial Council applies to everyone, including such behaviour... 'Cause I don't know if Mrs. Messengers would like the fact that the judge to the President, the woman to the President... On Twitter under some publication, press link: all of it, I love her, sweetheart. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What about these postcards to Gersdorf with the word on them?]] I don't think these are behaviors that, as a woman, whether you as Members will accept it. I ask you, as far as the other issues raised are concerned, here Members of the Council pointed to the number of candidates who applied for the Council. I can't tell you how many people have volunteered in these four years, but as far as the vocations are concerned, there are 1943 candidates in the numerals. These are the requests for appointments made in the nomination proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have the number of candidates right now. Throughout the term of office, it was 2411 requests to serve as a judge and as a judicial assessor. I will end with such a conclusion, ma'am, that as far as the comment on the interview is concerned, the first president, I will not refer to it. I have already told the Member that it is simply not appropriate. On the other hand, if I may add something, it certainly does not belong to the catalogue of human rights, so that judges choose judges who choose judges. There is no such right (the bell) in the catalogue of fundamental rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u347	Thank you very much. Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz will speak on the basis of the corrigendum. [[Voice from the courtroom: We apologize for Mr Asta's conspiracy.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u348	High Izbo! Madam President said that I did not understand how she explained that there was no double diet system in the neo-KRS. Well, maybe I'll say it again. According to NIK's audit speech of 14 April 2021, neo-KRS members artificially overwhelmed their diets by participating in several decades of committee meetings. Some neo-KRS members started meeting on other dates instead of working in committees on the days on which plenary sessions were held. As a result, instead of one diet, they were paid two. Importantly, as the press reported, committee meetings were very often held in the form of on-line and usually lasted very short. That's a 1,000-dollar diet. Evil for a day's work. These meetings lasted from 31 minutes to 109 minutes, on average 66 minutes, and thousands fell. Mr Ast made a total of what? [[♪ The bell ♪]] 77,000. zł. The present Mr. Smolinski - 43 thousand. zł. [[A voice from the room: It's a small one.]] No wonder they're protesting, right? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u349	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Rapporteur for the Committee, Mr Marek Ast. I invite you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u350	Mr. Marshal! First of all, that's the point. With understanding, I have accepted the way in which you proposed this debate by Members of Parliament to interact with the Chamber, and as far as the representatives of the constitutional authorities of the State who are present in the Parliament are concerned, they do not seem to be able to interrupt their speeches. Therefore, it seems rather appropriate for Members not to interrupt the speeches of our guests, out of respect for the bodies they represent.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u351	I have a request for you, sir. I respect you very much, and you know it. I'm in session. Tell me what you have to say.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u352	Sure, sure, Mr. Marshal, it was such a small remark, small, about the course of today's...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u353	As far as comments on the proceedings are concerned, they will be conducted as they are conducted. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u354	Aye, aye, Marshal. First of all, I would like to thank you for all the substantive comments made during today's committee meeting, today's debate. Of course, I will not, and I will not, thank you for the political and aggrieved. On the other hand, as regards Mr Braun's question, I would say, Mr Braun, that we are absolutely in favour of increasing the social factor in the justice system, but the draft laws that are tabled by the Confederation should also be in line with the Polish constitution. Therefore, simply this project of yours could not gain the approval of the committee. That's it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u355	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns the appeal against the Council's resolutions on the retiring of the judge. In accordance with the Article. 73 The decision of the Council to transfer the Judge to rest or refuse to transfer the Judge to rest shall be subject to an appeal to the Supreme Court. In 2021, eight appeals against the resolutions of the National Judicial Council concerning the transfer of the judge to rest were received by the Council. Are the decisions known in some cases or in all cases of appeal?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u357	I state that the Sejm was informed about the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2021. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law on amending the Law on Forests and the Act - Code of Offences (Print No 1971). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Paul to present a reasoned bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u358	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour, on behalf of the Committee on Petitions, to present to the High House proposals for amendments to the Law of 28 September 1991 on forests and the Law of 20 May 1971 - Code of offences intended to enable rescue dogs to participate in training in the forest by excluding from the general rule on the prohibition of loose dogs in the woods, as well as rescue dogs during training, and participation in false rescue or rescue operations. The draft law is the response of the Committee on Petitions of the Sejm to a petition which the committee considered to be legitimate. petition number 145-IX-178/20. The current provisions contained in both amended laws prohibit the introduction or release of a dog in bulk during training in the woods and in natural protected areas. The proposed amendment to the Code of Offences Act eliminates the risk of sanctions for letting the rescue dog loose during training and rescue activities. High Izbo! Search and rescue operations are attended by rescuers along with their dogs. These animals must be trained for several years. Each dog must pass the exam every year in order to obtain a certificate allowing it to be rescued. One of the elements of the certification exam is the search for a missing person in the forest area. And that's where the problem arises, because the dog tracked during the field training according to the current regulations must be kept on a leash by his guide. So he's taking a test from looking for a missing person without any restraint, and he's practicing on a short leash at the guide's leg. During rescue action the dog deviates from his guide even several hundred meters, therefore also during training he should run and look unfetteredly. The dogs certified to search in Poland are about 100, so training will be sporadic and will usually take place individually, therefore there is no risk that the amendment of the law will lead to the attack or scaring of wild game by dogs training in forest areas. The draft amendment of the bill, which I have the honour to present, supports among others. State Fire Department and dozens of associations and search groups from all over Poland. The essential social and legal effect of the proposed law will be to eliminate the dissonance that has existed for many years between the legal situation and the need for the utmost effectiveness of rescue measures undertaken using rescue dogs. Due to its nature and limited scope, the law will not have economic effects as well as financial implications for the public finance sector. The subject matter of the proposed regulation is not covered by European Union law. High Izbo! The Committee on Petitions unanimously adopted a request to amend the existing law on the training of rescue dogs in forest areas. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Committee on Petitions, which I have the honour to represent, please refer the draft law to the committee for further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u359	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Dariusz Fark from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the draft Law on Printing 1971. High Seym! We have just heard the justification for this bill, but I would like to draw attention to some of the issues that have been raised here. Indeed, the purpose of the Act is to amend the Law of 28 September 1991 on forests and the Law of 20 May 1971 - Code of offences aimed at enabling rescue dogs to participate in training in the forest by excluding from the general rule the prohibition of loose dog in the forest of rescue dogs during training, participation in fake rescue action or participation in rescue action. However, wider amendments are proposed, namely the proposed amendment to the Article. 29 is moving towards extending the list of exceptions to the ban on driving in the forest - that is what Article regulates. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Law on forests - and from the prohibition of entry into specific forests, including private forests. With regard to the idea of amending the law and allowing the dog to move freely in the woods and not just on a leash, our position is positive. This regulates the proposed article. 1. This change will take place in the current Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. We have no doubts about this, but as regards the revision of the article. 29, after the debate at the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, we are considering regulating this in more detail. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u361	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Maria Piekarska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u362	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition in relation to the draft law amending the Law on Forests and the Act - Code of Offences. This bill is the result of a petition to the Sejm. It is clear that legislative initiatives are worth taking on important issues for the groups concerned. It is worth mentioning that this is the second project at this meeting of the Sejm, which is the result of the petition. High Izbo! The project involves training rescue dogs, and, as we know, such dogs are priceless when it comes to saving people's lives when locating electronic devices fail. It is worth mentioning that such a dog has about 250 million receptors responsible for identifying smell and has an amazing sense of spatial smell. Historically, these abilities were first noticed in the 17th century. When it comes to searching for people, for example. Under the avalanches, it was the 17th century. They were Bernardines bred by monks in the Holy Pass. Bernarda in the Penni Alps, and real training for rescue dogs began in World War I. High Izbo! In order for these dogs to be used to look for missing persons, they must, of course,, as the rapporteur mentioned, undergo appropriate training. It must be training in different areas, including in the woods, so that the dog learns to use these extraordinary abilities in human service. This project concerns, as I mentioned earlier, just training in the woods. Until now, the possibility to let the dog loose in the woods generally concerned only hunting dogs. The draft proposes a revision of the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 so that the possibility to let the dog loose also concerns the rescue dog during training and rescue operations. In the current state of law, there are only a few exceptions to the ban on the loosening of dogs. The aim is to allow for the organisation and training of rescuers and rescue dogs in the area of the national park on the basis of Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 6th Nature Conservation Act, but it's definitely not enough. The draft also provides for the amendment of the Article. 166 A code of offences that eliminates the risk of sanctions for letting the rescue dog go during training. High Izbo! In our view, this project deserves support, which is why we are in favour of further referral to committee work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u363	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Szejna. Absent. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski made a written statement* Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u364	God bless you! Darzbor. [[Voice from the hall: Darzbor.]] I wish all rescuers and firefighters as many trips as they come back. And, of course, with some relief, I accept such a nice project. Two good things in one. One thing is, a petition came in. Behold, the Seym leaned over it. She came all the way here. I hope she'll be prosecuted, why she won't, I immediately point out, the Confederation opposes. On the contrary, we are happy to have a limited tendency to return to normality, even if only to forest areas. I've been in the woods, I've been with dogs. Of course, I was also dealing with irresponsible people who raised their dogs badly. We all know that's the problem. Therefore, the legal standard, which obliges dog owners to take seriously the possible risks arising from the animal's misposition, should not be repealed, but let us be serious, let us be normal. Who would lead a dog into the woods on a leash, with other animals laughing, and with a dog, and with the owner? Ladies and gentlemen, let's not treat this project like some small one, no matter how one of the michałeks who come here in the Seym. No, let's take this seriously as a testimonial of the flashes of normality in the Polish Parliament. And maybe we should move on. Maybe if we don't want to, praise God, hopefully everyone will agree to this, put the world on their heads and chase hunters, rescuers and firefighters, who with dogs do what their craftsmanship, training and tradition tells them to do, then maybe we should stop chasing people. Maybe we should stop chasing and crawling hunters who take their conscious and raised children into the forest. [[But it's now.]] And the Sejm of this term has just started to criminalise and delegate hunting traditions. [[But hunters can.]] Let us return to normality not only in this narrow scope, also in terms of access to firearms, because it is connected with this hunting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In general, we support this project, and we ask for one more thing, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u365	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u366	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 on the Commission's draft law on amending the Law on Forests and the Code of Offences Act. High Izbo! The aim of the bill is to amend the Forests Act and the Code of Offences, which are intended to generally allow rescue dogs to be trained, to participate in training in forest areas by excluding this training process from the general principle of banning the loosening of dogs in the forest, rescue dogs in the course of training, participation in fake rescue operations or participation in rescue operations. This bill is a commission project, but it is also worth noting, the reaction to the request, to the petition of a citizen addressed to the Polish Parliament. And I think it is worth noting, on this occasion, that citizens also have the opportunity to make a petition in which they ask Parliament to take some solutions. When justified, Parliament is also drafting a bill and this law is being examined in the High House. You don't have to be an MP, you don't have to raise $100,000. signatures, but this is the way a petition addressed to Parliament can also affect changes in the law. This change is so important that dogs, animals, as we all know, help to run rescue operations. Thanks to the involvement of animals, these actions can be carried out faster, more efficiently, and in the case of searches through involvement The dog can cover a larger area and find a missing person faster. It is therefore appropriate to introduce various types of training in the field, as only such training is capable of providing an adequate level of training for the dog and this makes it necessary to provide rapid and effective assistance. The only question that arises today in the course of proceedings over this law is whether the change in the application of the exemption from the obligation to comply with paragraph 1. Article 1 29 Forests Act, during training, by persons taking part in dog training is fully justified. During the training process, was it really necessary for these people to move in the forests outside the designated paths? That's the question we're asking. Nevertheless, the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 sees the need for further work on the project presented. I therefore request that the draft submitted by the committee be referred to the bell for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u367	Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u368	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The current provisions contained in both amended laws prohibit the introduction of dogs into forests or loose them in forest areas and areas covered by strict and active protection. Few exceptions to this rule in law do not apply to training and rescue dogs' activities. One of them is to allow the organisation and training of rescuers of mountain dogs and rescue dogs, including avalanche dogs, in the area of the national park pursuant to Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Nature Conservation Act in accordance with the rules agreed with the National Park Director. Thus, rescue dogs can now be trained under certain conditions in national parks, but it is not possible in forests. On behalf of the Left Club, I would like to welcome the proposed rules and regulations and to ensure that the Left Club welcomes its participation in the process of pursuing good solutions under this law. On behalf of rescuers and rescue dogs guides, I would like to thank the authors very warmly for the necessary and, as it seems, very obvious regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u369	Thank you very much. We move on to the questions that are seven. Would any of you like to join the list? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time of questioning - 1 minute. I invite Mr Jan Szopiński, who has just finished his wonderful speech and will now begin his second speech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I fear that the existing regulations have reduced the work of rescue formations more than have affected the free release of dogs in forest areas. The problem of unleashed and often abandoned dogs requires a number of additional regulations in Polish law. But given the achievements of the current power in reforming our lives, I think it would be better for the four-legged when this problem is dealt with by another ruling team. From this point of view, on the occasion of this debate, I would like to thank all hostels, temporary homes for animals, private people supporting such activities and local governments for their contribution to the care of all animals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u371	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today's bill is an important element of citizenship, i.e. the ability of citizens to influence the creation of law by petitions. This petition aimed at fulfilling the possibility of training rescue dogs in the woods in bulk today has a chance to get our recommendation during parliamentary work. By taking advantage of the presence in the Chamber of Members, Minister Edward Sark, who also oversees the State Forests every day, I would like to ask, in relation to earlier statements that national parks can already be done, but after agreement with the Park Director. Now, however, it is also necessary to ask the heads of State Forests how to do this organisationally when working on this law. Because, however, the forests are open, there is access for people, children and therefore (The Bell) that it is such a way, you can say, abnormal, could pose a threat to other people using forests. Therefore, are there regulations to allow this training to take place with the knowledge of national forest managers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u373	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk. There isn't. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u374	Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Member who is the representative of the committee. I wanted to ask if the applicant for this bill appeared at the committee meeting and did he also provide a personal motivation for the adoption of this type of bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u375	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u376	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! However, I cannot resist not taking advantage of your presence here - I am addressing the Minister of Sulphur, the representative of the government for forestry and hunting. The question, by the way, goes beyond the matter of this law. How much are you gonna value this chronus beam plus? What's her price? What's its availability? Will they be on Orlen stations? Or is it possible to distribute them through the Polish Post Office? Maybe Minister Sasin can set it up somehow. Or would that be equivalent to the 17th pension? Minister, a chrust-plus beam from the State Forests through various other piers. Surely in January, February next year there will be people who will not despise them, so (The bell) I would be very interested in whether it will be around 5, 15 or maybe 115 PLN for a chrust + beam.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u377	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u378	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! I have a question that actually concerns more about hunting and how it applies to these dog trainings. At the moment, let us remember that hunting can take place 150 m from buildings, i.e. in open terrain, which, of course, from hunters themselves poses a threat to people who live or live there. But my question is this... This bill doesn't cover it. Forests were taken care of, not forest grounds where hunting took place. If so, it's okay from my point of view. However, if it were to be that dogs can run during (the bell) hunting also in a non-forest land, then from the point of view of people who may be threatened by shooting by a hunter, incidentally... There could be a dog chasing down there. People don't know, it doesn't say if it's a rescue dog. They may just feel very threatened. I'd appreciate it if you'd answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u379	Thank you very much, Member. Last question, Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u380	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The justification for this project is only about the need and the right to exempt dogs from leashes in forest areas during their training and rescue activities. However, in the project there is a record giving the same possibility during the hunt - except that there is no longer a word on this subject in the justification. That is why I would like to ask what this results from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u381	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment to answer the questions of Minister Edward Siarka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u382	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! At the very beginning I must say that we are talking about amending the Forest Act, because this is how this provision was formulated in the petition committee, but for the good in this case we are talking about saving human life. I want to make this clear. My parliamentary experience, because I used to be chairman of the Committee on Home Affairs and Administration... At the same time, I am a social function associated with the leadership of Małopolska firefighters. I must say that the question of rescue and use of rescue dogs is very important and concerns the saving of human life. On many occasions, an environment of rescuers and firefighters specializing in this, who run special rescue and search groups... There are several in Małopolska. The famous group of judges or the group of Kęt have very big achievements. Indeed, they have pointed out for some time that there is a barrier to the fact that we cannot freely train, practice rescue dogs, and, as I say, their effectiveness, their search skills often determine whether or not we will save lives. The case is important, although it seems clipping. From our point of view - I am talking about the Ministry of Climate and Environment - there is full support for this idea, for this solution. We do not yet have the government's position on this project, but I hope that it will be the same as the position we are presenting at the moment in the Ministry. As I say, we want to solve this problem, which often causes some kind of paradoxes. Mr Tomaszewski, President Tomaszewski, pointed out in his speech that we have such situations that, under certain conditions, certain arrangements can be made for the activities in the park and that such activities cannot be carried out in the economic forest. These are all good points, and I think we'll come to an agreement. There are only a few issues that we think should be dealt with differently. We believe it's Art. 29, which, in principle, refers to the prohibition of entry into the forest... In this case, this should be decided differently. We'd like to separate the issue of training itself... Such a proposal came up - Mr Suchoń pointed this out. I think we should treat the issue of training a little differently than rescue action itself. The point is to ensure that emergency services can quickly enter the forest using modern means of transport, cars, and motorcycles. But we must also be careful not to abuse this formula. Today we have problems with the destruction of Polish nature also because of the fact that a number of valuable natural areas are simply scattered to us. On the occasion of the introduction of positive provisions in this law, I would not want to lead to any abuse. Of course, we will propose that all these trainings of dogs be carried out - like in national parks - after agreement with the owner of the forest or with the forebear who is responsible for the area. I think that we will come fully to an agreement on these issues and we will actually solve an important issue, which is important in terms of saving human life, the subject of accessibility for emergency services. As far as hunting issues are concerned, I must say that when it comes to dogs running in non-forest areas, they move without restrictions. Your Marshal, there are no limits. In fact, if we're walking in the woods, and there's a lot of loose running, let's say... Imagine, for example. A rescue labrador, who is a friendly dog, and someone will see him, for example. There could be some problems. I think it's a question of marking these dogs. It can also be arranged so that there is no problem with that. I think that at the level of the committee's work we will discuss these issues in depth so that there are no such situations in this respect. Because, indeed, if we are dealing with some complaints today, these are the ones that apply to loosely running dogs, which we all regard as our pets and are willing to let loose. [[It's my own, but it's not someone else's.]] It's just that we don't have these reactions, that when we see a dog running through the woods, we're gonna call for help. That's not the point. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Braun is returning to a matter that... I do not know why this is the case, but I must say - very clearly - that in recent days various kinds of memes have actually appeared about the fact that a special chrust+ programme has been launched. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say very clearly from this stand: I have never spoken in this case, and you will not find my statement, even though in the media, especially in social media, I have been assigned words that I have never said. The case concerns a simple, simple thing that has been operating in the State Forests for years. Because it is known that the heating season is coming up, the director of the State Forests issued a decree at the end of May in which he indicated guidelines for enabling residents of the province, villages, small towns, often where people use their own heat sources, the purchase of firewood. Nothing else. That's all. He issued these guidelines. Suddenly it turned out that the entire program was de facto As if a little ridiculous, we observe such an attempt at ridicule. There's nothing out of the ordinary about it. It's been going on for years. People use firewood from various kinds of branches, branches, so-called. lies, which in our forests at the moment we calculate at about 1.5 million m For the potential buyer of this wood raw material, Kowalski, Nowak, this product is available from 10 PLN to 40 PLN. This depends on the thickness in which the area is located, etc. This wood can be obtained under the so-called. so let's say I have a tractor, a saw, other tools that are needed for wood processing, and I can do it myself on a forest surface that only measures and finds that I have to pay at the register for 5 m. For many villagers this issue is very important, because if someone in winter consumes 3 tons of coal and in this situation is able to make about 20 meters It is quite obvious, but it has become the subject of memes and a completely incomprehensible information policy. Perhaps it is understandable that it has become a political element indicating that I, as the one responsible for the forests, am guilty of something. There is no such thing, the more that - as I say - the program has been available to people for years and all those who use wood in Poland understand this problem. And let me remind you that today, according to the records of the heat sources that we are running at the Ministry of Climate and Environment - we have such data on 7 June - in Poland, in terms of heat sources for which firewood is used, 1,200 thousand are used. various types of fireplaces. So pay attention to how many there are. We have about the same amount of gas, and we have 1,400 thousand carbons. So 1/3 of the fireplaces in Poland are the sources of heat for which we use wood. Plus, there's still 500,000. fireplaces where wood is also used. So I don't understand why, if I say so, we're doing a hat around it, since we're using this wood. Moreover, the European Commission considers all these biomass-related elements zero-emission. It's in our best interest to use this raw material. This is our raw material, fully ecological, most importantly, renewable, not fossil, renewable. So let's use this raw material, because it can also reduce our fuel bills. Especially at a time when fossils are so expensive, it's important to our residents. I'm sorry I've been talking about this for a long time, but because these are questions that we're talking about today... [[Not at all. Bravo! I did a great job getting you into this. You've been talking about picking shrubs for 15 minutes.]] If you've made it... I'm not avoiding that. Mr, you know, this topic has a lot to do with social media, even recently I have seen interesting materials that have appeared somewhere on the radio or on television, very intellectually interesting, you know, at a high level. On the other hand, we are talking about a serious matter, we are talking about access to fuel for our residents, and I think that you, too, as a man who comes from Podkarpacie, represent this area, understand very well what we are talking about, for example. The inhabitants of Podkarpacie use this fuel very widely, or in fact I would say that 70% use this fuel and they have been doing it very effectively for years, thus reducing their bills. I hope that I have answered the question you have asked as much as we can today in the context of the amendment of this law to answer, which is that we generally support this solution, and in the course of the work in committee, I think we will come up with solutions that will allow us to work this project in such a way as to actually save human life, and by the way, we will avoid all the collisions that you have been talking about, the dangers arising from the fact that the dog loosely years or running in the woods, or, let's say to ourselves, that cars do not needlessly enter the woods and run around the Polish nature. Thank you, Marshal. And thank you for the initiative. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u383	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Braun. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u384	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You say you don't know where that meme wave came from. However, it is quite clear, and it is not only anonymous witty, sarcastic Internet users who know, but also your colleagues. Minister Kowalczyk has recently even entered such media polemics. He said chrust, sticks, maybe not, but branches - go ahead. I do not ignore this, on the contrary, even think I am qualified in this field. I've been using these fires, and I can start a fire, and, you know, I'm gonna heat it up in the stove. The thing is -- you don't seem to understand it, and it's a little funny, but it's a little scary -- that Internet users laugh in laughter mode through tears, because it looks like some people won't leave an alternative, that some of these coming winters (the bell) will have no other option but to go into the woods and collect cones from under the snow, because the prices of gas, coal, eco-pea, all the way up. Fuel, right? Another window...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u385	Mr Pierce, you're very welcome to leave.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u386	...for another number at Orlen stations is mounted. And this is, my dear Minister, your honorable marshal, and ridiculous, and horrible.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u387	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u388	Position of the club KP - PSL, UED, Conservatives towards the Commission's draft law amending the Law on Forests and the Act - Code of Offences, print No 1971 High Seym! In the beginning, it is worth noting that the project presented is the result of the work of the Committee on Petitions, which has repeatedly dealt with very important issues from the point of view of different backgrounds. Very often those who refer their petitions to the Sejm pay attention to imprecise law, the omission of the interests of certain industries or the ineffective application of the rules currently in force. This project is such an example. The Committee on Petitions has decided to prepare a draft regulation on, seems to be a very good idea to allow free training in the forests of rescue dogs. This is so important that the existing rules did not allow for this. The committee's position is so correct that it will enable rescue dogs to be prepared in the place and conditions often corresponding to the reality of a real rescue operation. And even if that is the only reason why the project deserves to be understood and supported. The same position is represented by my club, which is why we will support this novel in the course of further parliamentary work. The Committee on Petitions, as well as the entire Sejm, should improve existing law in places where it is ineffective or does not take into account everyday practice. The Polish Coalition Club supports this quite important initiative.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u389	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the Commission's draft law on amending the Law on Forests and the Law - Code of Offences, contained in print 1971, to the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 56th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? Then come in. I'm closing the list. Mrs Wanda Nowick will be the first to speak. Three minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u390	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! I would like to express my regret that the Law and Justice are constantly dealing with two social groups and, most often, this is not working out for the benefit of these groups. First of all, I mean in this case women and children, young people. As far as women are concerned, much has been said today about the repressive anti-abortion bill and its consequences, including the pregnancy register, which poses another threat and causes concern among women, that the prosecutor may be interested in their pregnancies, and it is not necessarily for the best reasons, just to pursue them in case it turns out that the child was not born from this pregnancy. On the other hand, important initiatives for women are not taken in parliament by the ruling majority, e.g. My in vitro bill is waiting for the number, not only for the procession, but for you to give the number to Marshal Witek. I hope that happens. It would show that when we talk about the eternal war of law and justice with women, it is something that sometimes, I say, occurs, not always, but in certain situations. When it comes to young people and children, it is again a question of education, a question of schools. Remember, even in this meeting, we talked about the idea that the principal would have the opportunity to punish young people in an arbitrary way - through a penalty, for example. Washing toilets or raking leaves or what the principal is playing in his head. And to tell you the truth, he doesn't need to know how to handle these things. Finally, the question of the youth manual, now discussed, to the subject of HiT, which is based on ideological foundations and can really discourage young people from the European Union, spread ideological superstitions about the fact that the Union promotes atheism, feminism, etc. Instead of focusing on history and facts (The Bell), it promotes ideology. I would therefore like to appeal to the Law and Justice: finally let women and children live. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u391	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u392	Dear Marshal! June 14th is the World Blood Provider's Day. We are all aware that blood is the gift of life, and giving blood is an act of solidarity. That is why I would like to draw attention today to the great role that voluntary blood donation plays in saving lives, in how it affects the strengthening of solidarity in local communities. I thank all the blood donors for sacrificing a part of themselves to help other people. I wish you health and that in every place and every time you enjoy human gratitude and respect, because you certainly deserve it. On this day I would also like to thank the whole community active in the movement of honorary blood donation. Thanks to your commitment, it is possible to provide blood to those in need. Therefore, in the hands of the socialists and nurses of the Polish Red Cross and public blood service units, today I wish the best of our success and satisfaction from our work and service. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u393	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u394	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Nestor of Polish historians - also from Piotrków. There is a street in my Piotrków, not long, along the old city walls, overlooks the building with a large commemorative plaque. In this house he lived, worked and died Kazimierz Stronczyński. Only a few historians They know that name, and that's too bad. Because it was a man who created the foundations of modern Polish historical sciences. He was born in 1809. Interestingly, the exact dates of both birth and death are still questionable. He started his education at a drunken college in Piotrków and continued it at the University of Warsaw. He was a teacher and official, fought in the war against Russia between 1830 and 1831. Him. The true passion was history, very widely understood. He carried it out, both at the head of the government commission, carrying out the first such thorough inventory of monuments in the Polish Kingdom as well as after work dealing with sfragistics and his beloved numismatics. Its opus magnum are descriptions and sightseeings of monuments in the Kingdom of Poland, today called albums of Stronczyński. In five volumes, realized with Benedictine patience, the famous monuments with precise description, location and many watercolors and gouaches were included. He also published excellent works on the numismatic subject, collecting information about coins in medieval Poland and seals, where he was a pioneer. His works are still important studies for historians, especially since today many of the monuments described by Kazimierz Stronczyński no longer exist. He was undoubtedly the forerunner of the development of supporting sciences in history. The Polish element played a very important role in his teaching on Polish lands. He died in Piotrków in 1896, where he was also buried in the Old Cemetery. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u395	Thank you, sir. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u396	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Everyone praises the human government, which has made it easier to collect the shroud. This is a matter that the whole country lives on because it gives a pretty good absurd approach to the economy of the current team. The effect they have caused is, as usual, the opposite of what they have planned. Earlier, the rangers turned a blind eye when somebody took a few branches, and now, through the national gathering of foresters, they're gonna take the money for every beam. The people in the country, also the electorate of PiS, are angry because such ideas simply humiliate them. The truth is, Chrust should stay in the woods. Forests are not only trees, branches are an important part of the ecosystem, they are part of the forest litter, they develop micro-organisms, forests live, and the wood that is rotting is an indispensable part of this. Besides, smoking is worse than smoking with coal. We should heat houses with clean energy, finance heat pumps, photovoltaics and invest in wind farms. It is not enough to hang photographs of windmills when someone from the Union arrives to make something really different in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u397	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Maciej Kopiec, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u398	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Niedzielski! I address you with an appeal on behalf of those with cystic fibrosis. cystic fibrosis is a severe genetic disease that prevents normal daily functioning, and untreated results in death. Every day patients struggle with strong shortness of breath, lack of condition and risk of infection during numerous visits to hospitals. Ania's had cystic fibrosis since she was 23. The disease is progressing, and Anne's normal life can only dream. Constant infections and shortness of breath that increase in every movement caused her to give up her studies. Basic activities, such as shopping or cleaning, also cause her a huge problem. She's currently looking forward to the cause medications that are her last chance for normality. Unfortunately, Hope Or fade from day to day, because the University Clinical Hospital in Bialystok, which has taken care of it, still has not received the medicine, because the process of agreement on refunds is still increasing. There's fear among patients. It is not enough that their lives are at risk of disease, but they do not know whether or not their treatment will continue. They feel like they're out of support. It's just one of about 3,000. History of cystic fibrosis, of which only 1 thousand. they are eligible for reimbursement of medicines, and only these are proven, effective and actually save lives. Unfortunately, Polish patients are often forced to organise their own collections and trips abroad in order to continue treatment, which costs up to 87 thousand. PLN per month. Despite earlier calls to change this situation and the Minister's assurances for support to this day, sick people do not know whether and when they will be able to start life-saving therapies. The cystic fibrosis knows no mercy, does not wait, progresses and destroys the organisms of young people like Ania. Statistically, people with this disease in Poland live several years less than in Western European countries. This drastic difference is a shame for Poland. On March 1, this year, the sick, after many years of daily suffering, received the promise of a normal life. I ask the Minister that the centres receive the medical funds promised by the government as soon as possible and that information on the procedure for reimbursement of medicines be made public on an ongoing basis. I call for the processes leading to the availability of medicines to be accelerated immediately, because the situation of patients in Poland is dramatic, and any day of delay can mean a death sentence for another sick person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u399	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u400	God bless you, it's late! A declaration by the Members referring to the presence here in the High House today by Deputy Minister Waldemar Kraski. Mr Waldemar Kraska - Deputy Minister of Health or, as he tells me, the experience of recent years, the Deputy Minister in the Ministry of Disease and Sudden Death presented some explanations here today to the High House, answering questions within the standard point: Current information. I asked the Minister a question about his biography, about his life, longer than mine, about a nice few years, and kind of starting only in 1989. I asked the Minister a question because his department doesn't answer my correspondence on this matter except with excuses of the type: cut - paste from Wikipedia. Waldemar Kraska was born in 1963, but he is not in public life and there is nothing to boast about before 1989. I asked the resort and asked the Institute of National Remembrance for a illustrative statement by Waldemar Kraski. According to correspondence, which was addressed not to me, but to a historian who followed the same lead, it appears that at least one thing is in possession of the Institute of National Remembrance, but - attention - from the contextual analysis of the letter, that this statement was not verified at all. And for this reason, out of care and care that the Sejm of the Republic of Poland should not listen here perhaps to people whose functioning in public life is burdened with some kind of legal profession, which, for example, for fear, could lead to the conclusion that all decisions of Waldemar Kraska, including decisions made in years of fighting a supposed pandemic, were unlawful, because they were burdened with this fluke, this flaw... If he were to turn out to be a minister, vice minister of sickness and sudden death illegally, it would be very derogatory to the majesty of the High House, as well as to your marshal, if she went paranoid with someone like that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's why my... I'm almost done, Marshal. Please consider my statement today as a public report. From now on, your marshal has the knowledge that it is justified to suspect a crime either by Waldemar Kraska himself, or by persons who have not fulfilled their obligation to verify his illustrious statement...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u401	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u402	...or by other unknown third, fourth and fifth parties. Anyway, I'm reporting a possible crime, which would be a illustrative lie in the case of Waldemar Kraska. In my generation, not having a résumé before 1989 makes it very clear that such a person has something to hide.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u403	Thank you. Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u404	Maybe training, maybe action, maybe serving a green, blue department - no one knows that, but let them know. Who? Prosecutor. At the request of your marshal, who, by his own knowledge, is obliged to inform you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u405	Thank you very much, sir, and please follow the time limits. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u406	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! My statement concerns a very difficult economic situation in Polish agriculture. Today, the Prime Minister, presenting from this speaker the achievements of the government, spoke, among others. on aid for fertilisers, aid for the purchase of fuel oil or aid for electricity. However, the reality in the district Poland is completely different. At the moment, applications for aid for fertilisers are not implemented. Farmers are waiting for this payment of PLN 500 to PLN 1 ha and PLN 250 as regards the payment of up to PLN 1 ha of grassland. In addition, the selection of applications for drought aid in the past year will only start. The money for fertilizer had to be spent, increased energy costs, the gas had to be borne, the price of 1 kg of live animals fell very low and very many farms gave up pig farming. In view of the above, many families are in a difficult material situation and I would therefore like to call on the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development to ensure that the publicly announced programmes are implemented as efficiently as possible by the administration under the authority of the Minister and do not lead to bankruptcy of agricultural holdings. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u407	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anita Sowińska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u408	The European Parliament has just decided to withdraw from the sale of cars after 2035. Of course, we are talking about brand new cars, so this process will take place gradually. This decision is good for a few reasons. The first reason is the armed assault of Russia on Ukraine, which requires responsibility from all of us. Each litre of oil purchased from Russia are killed people in Ukraine. It is good that the Polish government and most EU countries have decided to move away from oil imports until the end of this year. However, let us remember that this decision also has economic consequences. The oil imported by ships is, in principle, more expensive than the oil imported by pipeline. We can already see very high fuel prices, but we are only at the beginning of this road, because Poland about 64% He buys oil from Russia. Therefore, it is not enough to replace one supplier with another supplier. In the longer term, for economic reasons, the solution is only to give up oil in transport. The second reason why the European Parliament's decision is good is to protect the planet for our children. Avoiding a climate disaster is only possible if we achieve climate neutrality. Transport, which is responsible for around 28%, plays a key role in this challenge. EU greenhouse gas emissions. And the third reason is to fight the smog. Smog is primarily responsible for furnaces, but communications pollution is also important. Across the country, cars generate about 5%, 7% air pollution, but in large cities, these toxic exhaust gases have a significant impact on the number of premature deaths. E.g. In Warsaw, this impact is estimated at around 75%. The sooner we give up the cars in the city centers, the healthier we'll be. The State's task is to create such a right and such financial mechanisms as to facilitate citizens' smooth departure from buying expensive oil and expensive petrol. We know how to do it. Efficient, convenient and cheap public transport, electric buses or hydrogen, developed network of railway lines, electric chargers at petrol stations and parking lots, surcharges for electric cars and, of course, decarbonisation of all energy - these are actions that we should implement right now in order to achieve zero-emissionity by 2050 or earlier at the latest (The Bell) and properly plan this process over time. There is a lot of work, which is why I hope that the Polish government will quickly adopt the relevant laws proposed by the European Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u409	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Maciej Górski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u410	Dear Marshal! High Seym! On 27 May, I had the pleasure of attending the celebrations related to the establishment of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Card. Stefan Wyszyński is the patron of the Ostrowski County. The celebrations began with Mass. in Zuzela, the place where the Primate of the Millennium was born and spent his childhood. Then there was a solemn session of the district council, where resolutions were read supporting all 11 local governments and a decree of the father of St. authorising such a resolution. The resolution was adopted unanimously and, which is worth emphasising, the municipalities also unanimously adopted this resolution to support the county. I am built up by this attitude, and from this point of view I would like to thank the councillor for making this courageous decision, this commitment, because today it is not easy, especially in public life, to stand on the side of Catholic values, and because one example means more than a thousand words, it is from this place where, alongside the White Eagle, there is also a cross, I decided to thank the councillors from the Ostrów district. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u411	Thank you. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u412	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! May ended nine days ago, but I have to get back to May 1st, the state holiday. Let me remind you that this is a special day, International Labor Solidarity Day, popularly called Labor Day or just May 1st. This celebration has been celebrated since 1890 to commemorate the events of the first days of May 1886 in Chicago, which took place during the strike carried out for the introduction of an 8-hour working day. This year, the Left, together with the OPZZ, organized the first - year march, which passed through the streets of Warsaw after a break due to pandemic restrictions. Many who walked or stood beside us responded positively to the march organized by the Left, but unfortunately something happened that made me very sad. About an hour. 18 I turned on Panorama, a TVP2 news programme broadcast since 1991, because I wanted to see government television show first-class celebrations. Imagine there wasn't a single word that we were celebrating Labor Day today, and it's a day off from work, a very important day in the history of the world. The most important information was that it was the sixth time that the National Bible Reading took place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u413	Thank you, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u414	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thanks to the initiatives and procedures of the Polish Landowners' Union, family gardens can receive grants of up to 100,000. PLN for green investments carried out in parts of common gardens. Managers can apply to the Agricultural Restructuring and Modernisation Agency to take part in a competition called the Development of Green Infrastructure through the support of parcel gardens. Projects that will contribute to protecting and improving the quality of green areas in cities have the opportunity to be co-financed. Projects may include enlargement of green areas, noise reduction, reduction of air pollution as well as water and sewage and energy infrastructure. In addition to the traditional recreational function, family gardens in cities are also valuable natural spaces and are an integral part of urban greenery not only in Poland, but in many other European countries. Therefore, I would like to congratulate you very warmly from this place and at the same time thank all the activists of the Polish Union of Dzialkowicz, who have engaged in obtaining funds from the European Union. The European Union is open to financing investments in support of ecology and a healthy way of life, provided that someone, like this has done the Polish Landowners' Union, will affect the government in advance to include such grants in national programmes concerning EU funds. Kujawsko-Pomeranian landowners from Bydgoszcz, Inowroclaw and Świecie asked me to thank the National Council of the Polish Landowners' Union for their declaration of support for field units in helping with applications, because many garden managers will apply for public funds for the first time. For my part, I also declare assistance in the event of such requests being met and, in the event that it is necessary to draw the Agency's attention to the restructuring and modernisation of agriculture to unforeseen problems related to application or transparency of the procedures used. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u415	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u416	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Another month has passed since the beginning of Russian aggression against Ukraine. Since the beginning of the war, i.e. since 24 February, more than 3.5 million people have already been posted at border crossing points between Ukraine and Poland, most of whom are women and children. Before the attack of Russia, there were about 1 million Ukrainians in our country. Some of them are men who have returned to the country to defend him. Some refugees go further to Western Europe, some have already decided to return to their own home, but most of them stay in Poland to return home only after the war has ended. The attitude of Polish citizens, who have reorganized their everyday life, deserves great admiration and respect to bring help to those in need. It is incredibly upbuilding that so many of us have opened our hearts and homes for those who needed support and help, for those who, in their escape from war, have often left their achievements and came to Poland only with basic things. From this place I want to thank all Poles who responded to the needs of the other man. I thank volunteers who tirelessly provide assistance at border crossing points, refugee centres and stations. I thank those who have accepted women and children from Ukraine under their roof, which gives them a substitute for a normal life. The unique attitude of Poles was noticed and appreciated abroad. We are the only country to receive those in need in their homes, not in refugee camps. This shows how noble the hearts of Poles are. With the painful experiences of World War I and II in mind, we are all the more sensitive to the injustice that has happened to Ukraine. This huge wave of support is a manifestation of this. In the context of the totalitarian urges of Russia, the priceless value - independence and sovereignty, which must be constantly sought, is further highlighted. Let us remember this especially now, in order to always work beyond divisions in the interests of our homeland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u417	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u418	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The words of Spanish MEP Hermann Tertsch, who stood up for Poland, echoed a loud echo: This continuous blackmail related to the payment of money to Poland, when it accepted 4 million refugees and to a large extent must bear these costs, that Ukraine is not defended. It is the Germans who sabotage the heroic resistance of the Ukrainians. Yes, it is the Germans who systematically sabotage their efforts, which is why Poland is in such a situation. Now we see Germans threatening Poles, threatening Hungarians because they say they behave badly. And when were we talking about the violation of the independence of the Spanish judiciary by the socialist and communist government of Spain? Mr Tertsch's statement, for which I sincerely thank him, lasted a while and then his microphone was turned off. The attitude of Spanish politics is contrary to the behaviour of the Polish opposition in the European forum, but above all it is contrary to the attitude of the big EU decision-makers. No one will disgust the Poles of the European Union more than Brussels itself. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u419	There you go. Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u420	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We imposed a number of sanctions on both the Russian Federation and Belarus by the Law of 13 April 2022 on special measures to combat the promotion of aggression against Ukraine and to defend national security. The purpose of the law was, of course, solidarity with the Ukrainian people, but also a blow to the Russian economy, from which armed activities are financed in Ukraine. It is worth mentioning that the Act had the minimum vacathio legis and entered into force on 16 April 2022. Such a short period of entry into force of the Act caused companies from the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship to find themselves in serious difficulties. The northern part of my voivodship was largely benefiting from trade with the Kaliningrad region. Now, in connection with the introduction of the Act, all transactions between Polish and Russian companies have been stopped. Stopping the payment chain is an extremely serious problem for companies from Warmia and Mazury. This embargo works both ways. Polish companies are unable to enforce the funds for invoices issued to Russian companies. In turn, our domestic companies are unable to pay invoices to Russian companies that have been included in the list of companies subject to sanctions. The question should be asked whether the National Tax Administration or other institutions should not unlock Russian companies' accounts so that they can pay to Polish companies. Because of the lack of liquidity, dozens of companies have suspended their activities. Currently, more than 1,200 workers live in fear of their salaries, because in such a large number of employees according to the calculations of local governments are hit by sanctions. Companies from the north of Poland, whose activity was aimed at trade with the Kaliningrad region, are not able to change in such a short time. For example, we are talking about transhipment terminals or transport companies that have invested tens of millions of PLN in infrastructure. Does the government of the Republic of Poland have alternative solutions for these companies? Do the rulers have a plan to keep Braniewo dry? Are State Treasury companies able to import goods from abroad through transhipment terminals in Braniewo? High Izbo! The Law of 13 April 2022 states that the circle of eligible entities, the amount and the procedure for determining the compensation for the actual damage suffered by the entry into force of the prohibition referred to in Article. 8 on coal originating in the territory of the Russian Federation or Belarus will define a separate law. It's June, and there's no separate compensation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We don't even know what it says. When does the Council of Ministers plan to create special shields for companies victimized by the embargo? We're talking about over a thousand people left on the street without a means to live. I would like to ask the government's representatives to pass a bill as soon as possible to compensate Warmia and Mazury for the loss of sanctions imposed on the Russian and Belarusian Federation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u421	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u422	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we voted on the Senate's position on the National Reconstruction Plan. Where are we, what happened? We remember that more than a year ago, the National Reconstruction Plan project was sent to Brussels some time in advance, because it was still possible to talk about it for two weeks to pay attention, read the government's proposals in depth. As a matter of fact, we have been somehow removed from being able to participate in the creation and development of this plan, which was, I believe, a mistake on the part of the rulers. Actually, it hasn't been said in almost a year. It's been summer, autumn, winter. It was only at the end of March that some negotiations started, which were transmitted mediaally, between the government party and the European Commission. At some point, the Union's position is very clear - it talks about certain obligations, certain requirements. These requirements are called milestones, or maybe pebbles, because they're of different rank. There are fundamental problems of the rule of law, and they are less important, although important in energy-related matters, in digitalisation, in the environment and even in social matters, because the National Reconstruction Plan is intended to help to repair what has been somehow abandoned, limited by the pandemic, and it is about making up for the economic development that has been delayed. These negotiations are of a very deep nature, because it is the European Parliament, it is the Council of the European Union, and so the ministers of the 27 countries must also speak on this issue. It seems that we are losing a great opportunity to take advantage of the possibility of financing investment in economic development. Especially since this money is our common money of the Union. As you remember, the Sejm has given authorisation to the European Commission (the bell) for borrowing, because these are funds that are financed by the Union's loan. And it is a huge mistake and a loss for Poland that we do not use these funds, we do not use the advance. We have already been able, like other countries, to make further payments on the implementation of various projects that could...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u423	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u424	...accelerate our development and prevent rising inflation, as well as some stagnation, because we see the economic slowdown. It is a pity that we are not taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the National Reconstruction Plan. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u425	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Olszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u426	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the coming days we celebrate the anniversary of the 600th anniversary of the parish of St. Holy Trinity in Kolybiela. The climax of the Jubilee will be the festive Mass, which will be held on 12 June. It will be celebrated by the bishop of the Diocese of Warsaw and Prague Fr. bp. Romuald Kaminski. It is a huge opportunity to celebrate not only religious celebrations, but also historical and local celebrations. The region is located in the south-eastern right- Bank of Mazowsze, approx. 40 km from Warsaw. In the east it is adjacent to Podlasie, in the west to the Vistula valley, while the whole region lies in the river Świder, the right bank tributary of the queen of the Polish rivers Vistula, with an outlet near Otwocka. The first historical mention of Kołbiela dates back to 1407, when the church was built and founded by the Kolibielski family of Jasieńczyk's coat of arms, belonging to the small nobles of the former owners. An extensive parish was established by the erective act of 1422. In the 16th century the parish of Glinianka was separated from it, and in the interwar period - the parish of Celestin. At that time, Kołbiel was a noble village lying in Czersk-Liw, on the historical route from Czersk to Liv. The parish was eroded by Bishop Andrzej Łaskasz of Gosławice in 1422. The name of the village comes from the folk name of the Grząg swamp. In 1532, in the time of Zygmunt I, the village was granted city rights. In the second half of the 16th century, it had 800 inhabitants. During the Swedish Flood, the Kościuszkowski Uprising and Napoleonic Wars were seriously affected, and the Tsar government deprived them of urban rights in 1869. From 1806 to the Second World War, the former Kolibielski family owned the Zamoyski family. In the 19th century the original folk culture was developed here, showing itself in construction, ceremonies, outfits, weaving, cuttings, music and dances. The kolbiel is therefore an essential part of the history of Mazowsze. Therefore, I would like to thank the priest Krzysztof Abramowski for his daily work, not only pastoral work, but also devoted to organizing social and cultural life in the region. I wish and congratulate all participants of the 600th anniversary of the parish in Kołbiela, thanking you for your daily work in cultivating the traditions and history of our small homelands. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u427	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u428	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, June 9th, the main celebrations of the 750th anniversary of Lublin are held. It is one of the oldest towns of Upper Silesia, a county town located on the rivers Lublinica and Little Panwa, surrounded by forests, at the intersection of important transport routes. This is an extraordinary place built for generations to come, where we like to live, work, learn, like to be here - as in 1272 the founder of the city, Duke Władysław I Opoleski, said. It was the past, sometimes turbulent, dramatic, warlike, insurgent, that shaped our day. The time that has passed, and the moment at which we are in history, determines our identity. Today, with humility and gratitude, we look at our ancestors, whose will and determination enabled us to celebrate this glorious anniversary. For centuries the circumstances and boundaries changed, the buildings and walls, remembering the times of the Opole Piasts, but always accompanied us with an extraordinary, friendly atmosphere of the city, which is one of its greatest qualities. Our Lublin is a beautiful place. It's a place you always want to go back to. This town is a real home. The surrounding forests, numerous cycling routes promote sports and recreation, and monuments, rich cultural offer, museum, sanctuary of Edyty Stein and a wide gastronomic and accommodation base encourage tourists to visit Lublin. Thank you to all those involved in its development, I thank the local authorities, members of associations' organizations, fathers of oblasts and our parish priests, whose history has been connected with Lublin for centuries. I thank the soldiers of the military commandos unit who give garrison spirit to the city and always help. Thank you, most of all, to the residents. It's your decisions, it's your attitude that shapes Lublin as a community. I wish all the people of the following years the satisfaction, including the development of urban space and infrastructure. Let's hope it's St. Edith Stein, the patron of Europe and Lublin, has surrounded our city with her blessing so that those who come for us can celebrate another wonderful anniversary in happiness and abundance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u429	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Noblekhta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u430	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Last Sunday, June 5th, the concert hall of the Podkarpackie Philharmonic in Rzeszów hosted a final concert 61. The Music Festival in Chaincut. The history of this magnificent festival dates back to 1961, when, at the initiative of Janusz Ambros, then artistic director of the Rzeszow Philharmonic, the first series of concerts called Chamber Music Days took place. After 20 years of the festival, the name was changed to the Lancut Music Festival, which survived under the name 10 consecutive years. Concerts within this festival were held in the concert hall of the Rzeszow Philharmonic and in the mirror room of the castle in Łańcut - one of the most beautiful Magnack residences in Poland. In the 1980s, the director of May concerts was Bogusław Kaczyński, who cared about television recording of concerts, and above all about the artistic level of the festival, performances of famous stage stars, vocal and piano recitals. The guests of the festival were among others. Katia Ricciarelli, Seta del Grande or Juliette Gréco. In 1991 the festival adopted the official name: Music Festival in Łańcut. The last 2 years have changed the formula of the festival due to the time of pandemic, but this year the festival has returned to its full, traditional form with concerts in the castle in Łańcut and in the concert hall of the Podkarpackie Philharmonic. Thanks to the enormous commitment of the director of the Podkarpackie Philharmonic Prof. Marta Wierzbieniec held eight beautiful concerts, full of the greatest music and creations of outstanding musicians. In the final concert there were famous personalities from Portugal: pianist Rodrigo Leäo, singer of Äéngel Silva, violinist and singer of Vivian Tupikova, drummer of Eleurio and cellist Tony Gomes. Professor Marcie Wierzbieniec congratulations on the organisation of this wonderful festival, which is a great promotion of our beautiful Podkarpacie. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u431	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u432	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on persistent violations of law by the Government of Law and Justice and concerns about the financing of the Polish National Reconstruction Plan. Here is an important part of this resolution, and I quote: the European Parliament is seriously concerned about the positive assessment by the European Commission of the National Reconstruction Plan submitted by Poland, taking into account the existing and ongoing violations by Poland of the values enshrined in the Treaty on European Union, including the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. Since the outbreak of the war in Ukraine, the Polish authorities have taken a number of actions directly contrary to the three conditions set by the European Commission. First, on 25 February, the Polish judge Anna Głowacka was suspended for the application of European law and judgments of European courts. Secondly, the Polish President handed over nominations to over 200 new, incorrectly appointed Neo-KRS villages so-called. to the judges, including four nominations to the Supreme Court. Third, the politicised and fully subordinate Constitutional Tribunal challenged the validity of the Article. 6 the European Court of Human Rights by challenging its competence to examine the correctness of the appointment of judges and the independence of the neo-KRS. End of quote. Today's rejection by Law and Justice of most of the Senate's amendments to the Supreme Court Act best shows the true intentions of the Polish government. Polish law will continue to be broken by this government, and judges will continue to be persecuted. The Disciplinary Board will continue to operate under a different name only. The Neo-KRS will continue to be just a political impostor. Prime Minister Morawiecki will still be an ally of Viktor Orbán, an ally of Vladimir Putin. Commissioner! Madam President! Today's vote in the Polish Parliament is an important signal for you and the Commission as a whole. The Fund for Reconstruction is needed for Poles and Poles, but not for the price of lawlessness and injustice, which has been ruining our country for 7 years. Unstoppable, now they're gonna spill all over Europe. Mrs. President! Today's vote by the Law & Justice majority in the Polish Parliament sends a grave signal to you and the entire Commission. Recovery Fund is very much needed by polish people. But not at the price of corruption and injustice. Unless together we stop it now, it will next spill onto the hole rest of Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u433	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u434	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Battle of Monte Cassino is one of the most famous and important events of World War II. 18 May 1944 The Poles there were victorious over the Germans, who had exceptional fortifications, were sure of theirs and tried to ignore our capabilities. After the victorious battle, the commander of the Polish corps received a letter from the commander of the 8th army. I quote: The bravery of Polish troops in these fierce fights and the way in which they maintained heavy mortar and artillery fire and persistent attacks were a revelation to me. I am sure that this memorable act will go into history as a wonderful achievement of Polish weapons, and in our military history it will certainly be counted among the outstanding successes of the 8th Army. High Seym! Yesterday in Stara Błotnica, Kashów parish, there was an unusual ceremony: a mural was unveiled - of course it is in rural conditions - a portrait of a soldier who came from this village and died at Monte Cassino. There is also a portrait of the commander of the Polish corps of General Władysław Anders. At this point I would like to express my respect for the Old Mudfather Marcin Kostrach and the parish priest of the parish of Kaszów Ireneus Cloud, the main initiators of this undertaking. The ceremony was attended by distinguished guests. Polish Ambassador in Italy, Anna Maria Anders, former Polish Senator, Mr Stanisław Karczewski, officers, soldiers of the Polish Army. Former flags of voluntary firefighters, school banners from the area of the town of Stara Błotnica, the surrounding population. This deserves attention and I respect those who have an impact on local communities - and the governor or priest has an impact on local communities - for their attitude. During this time they remind us of heroic attitudes of Poles, build patriotic attitudes of Polish youth and make us all aware of what was always the most important for Poles. It is sad that today, we have just witnessed here (The Bell) preaching various theories: that there is fidelity and betrayal of our ideals within the European Union. It can't go on like this. You have to take an example from heroes of Poland, not look at harmful attitudes in Poland. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u435	I invite you, Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u436	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I regularly meet with local government officials from my constituency. We are discussing various topics, we are discussing joint actions, but I always know that sooner or later the question will be asked: Mr Arthur, when finally the Sejm will deal with taxes from the so-called. Apartments? How long are we gonna be screwed? Well, municipalities and cities living in tourism have been experiencing an extraordinary boom in housing for several years. Unfortunately, this has nothing to do with meeting the housing needs of the inhabitants of these municipalities and cities. The stats are filling up the apartment buildings. Developers build them. There's nothing wrong with that. People buy apartments, apartments or, if any, apartments. There's nothing wrong with that either. The problem begins when it turns out that these apartments are not intended to meet the needs of housing, but are intended for short-term rental, i.e. to bring income to their owners. Of course, there is nothing reprehensible about wanting to make a profit, but it is reprehensible to make a profit using methods that have nothing to do with fair competition. Suffice to say that this year the difference between the fee per 1 m Not much, apartment owners also pay for gas at a rate such as households. And here is an example: just recently, the W-3 tariff for households was PLN 21.61 and the same tariff for entrepreneurs set the price of 1 kWh at PLN 51.60, which is without a small 140% It's more expensive. Can you normally compete under these conditions? The tax on the area used for economic activities is so high, because not only does the area work for the owner, they still work sidewalks, streets, municipal infrastructure, recreational areas, beach descent, i.e. all areas which are sort of on the local government pot. Therefore, it is not surprising to local government officials that they are trying to fight for the taxes due to local communities. In May 2021 I submitted an interpellation to Prime Minister Morawiecki in this matter. In response, I received a fairly comprehensive explanation of the rules governing the setting of the property tax rate, and the Supreme Administrative Court's rulings on disputes between local government and real estate tax payers were also indicated. In addition, it was stated that from 1 January 2023 the Council of the European Union Directive will enter into force imposing new obligations on digital platform operators, which will contribute to the sealing of the tax system, also in the context of the property tax. All this looks promising, but only seemingly. Without amending the Tax Act and local fees, local authorities will be sentenced to proverbial dragging around courts (the bell) with those who are trying to observe the rules of taxpayers, and that is not the case. Why should the government go to court to enforce the tax due, why waste time and money? According to many self-governments, it is enough in the Act on tax and local charges in the article. Article 2a (2) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 add the condition of check-in of the property owner. That's it. That's it. This will precisely define the property that meets the needs of the citizen's housing and avoid litigation. The Ministry of Finance has been running the new Minister for some time, which gives hope for a new quality in this department. I will therefore address the Minister with an interpellation and ask her whether she would like to instruct the relevant department to take action in this important area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u437	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left. There's no envoy. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u438	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, now a very important problem, which raises fear and anxiety, is the very high price of coal, as well as the lack of availability. 3000 PLN per tonne of coal is more than today's minimum wage. A big problem is also the lack of possibility of buying fuel by voluntary firefighters in the Polish Mining Group. The TSO simply cannot afford to pay several thousand zlotys for 1 t for fuel. There was also a new problem at the airports. The Airport Fire Department informs and warns that the new regulations are a prerequisite for increasing the staff of firefighters at airports. Once again, I call for this formation to become a state service.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u439	Dear Marshal! This year, it's 30. the anniversary of the so-called The night of the briefcase is the direct cause of the overthrow of Prime Minister Jan Olszewski's government. The conference was held on 3 June in the Seym Column Hall by ministers in Jan Olszewski's government: Antoni Macierewicz, Jan Parys and Piotr Naimski. The conference reminded that Jan Olszewski's office was the first government elected by the Sejm after World War II to be elected in completely free elections. Based on the coalition of the Centre, ZCHN and the People's Agreement, he set out ambitious plans: speeding up political reforms, decommunising the public sphere, strengthening contacts with the European Union and striving for NATO membership, which was intended to ensure the realization of Poland's vital interests. Jan Olszewski's government had no support from the head of state from the beginning - Lech Wałęsa, his political environment and most media. He didn't have a stable majority in parliament. Conflicts with the presidential camp and supporting parliamentary parties are getting more and more shot at. Attempting to carry out a resolution on the illustration and disclosure of co-workers of the communist regime taking prominent positions in political and social life, which was proposed by Minister Antoni Macierewicz - it was unacceptable by the political elites at that time. Jan Olszewski's government must have fallen. The words of the Prime Minister expressed before the vote on the cancellation of his government are significant: I would like, namely, when I leave this building when it ends for me this - I do not hide - a terriblely timely time when I can move on the streets of my city only by car or in the company that paves the way for me and protects me from contact with the people of the escort, that when it finally ends - I can go out into the streets of this city, go out and look people in the eye. And this to you, Members, I wish you after this vote. Politics, outstanding lawyer, Grey Private soldier, participant in the Warsaw Uprising, defender in political processes, bachelor of the Order of the White Eagle, Prime Minister, statesman - Jan Olszewski, honest, righteous and devoted to Poland. That's how we'll remember him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u440	A statement on protection against cyber-criminal attacks. In my statement, I would like to draw attention to the increasing number of cyber-attacks, whose authors are referred to as cyber criminals. Their victims are mainly those less familiar with computer, smartphone or Internet banking. Unfortunately, users who operate devices more efficiently with access to the Internet do not always remember that using them can involve various dangers. For the protection of personal privacy, a very practical and simple guide was created on the website: Digitalization of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Its authors pay attention to important aspects such as password security, i.e. the need to create strong passwords. The advantage of having an antivirus program or two-step verification is also quoted. At the same time, by encouraging my statement to read this guide, I agree that we should apply the basic principles of cyberhagiene every day. This will reduce the risk that we will be the victims of the next cyber-rescue. In case of Internet fraud, it is possible to report it to CERT Polska at: https://incident.cert. == sync, corrected by elderman ==
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Recently Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced the results of the second edition of the Government's Strategic Investment Programme. As a result, the pole region has once again received financial support. This time it is more than PLN 164 million of funding for social, infrastructure and modernization investments. As a Member of the pole land, I am pleased that the government measures will enable a number of necessary investments to be made. In implementing the principle of sustainable development, the government supports regional investment throughout Poland. Therefore, the Government's Strategic Investment Programme provides a number of new solutions for local governments. The funds from this programme will significantly improve the living conditions of the people of the region, as well as their safety. Unrefundable funding for social, infrastructure and social investments was received by the Słupski Powiato-Gminny Union in the amount of PLN 19 770 000. Słupski Powiato-Gminny Union was established a few months ago. I am pleased that the local authorities in the pole region were open to the initiative proposed by me to establish a local government union. This allowed funds to be raised for three projects of a cross-cutting nature. These are: - development of sport infrastructure in the area of the Słupski County and Municipal Union, - comprehensive modernization of road infrastructure in the area of the Słupski County and Municipal Union, - purchase of rolling stock and modernization of the social infrastructure of the Voluntary Fire Guards in the territory of the Słupsk County and Municipal Union. Słupski County received PLN 14 805 000 for: - improving road safety through comprehensive modernisation of district roads in the pole district, - construction of renewable sources of heat and energy along with modernization of the heating installation of the buildings of the House of Social Assistance in Machowinka, - the creation of an archive and digitalisation centre in the pole district. The city of Słupsk received funding in the amount of PLN 32 600 000 for: - modernization of the functional layout of the stadium area at ul. Green in Słupsk - Stage III, - modernisation of the infrastructure of schools and educational establishments in Słupsk, - reconstruction of the street. Port and ul. Maritime in Słupsk. The municipality of Damnica received PLN 9 927 500 for: - modernisation of the street. Railway with internal road in the village of Damnica, - reconstruction and modernisation of the sewage treatment plant in Damnica - stage I. The municipality of Dębnica Kaszubska is 10,000 000 zł support for: - construction of roads in the North District of Dębnica Kaszubska along with the sanitary, water and rain sewer network. The municipality of Główczyce received an amount of PLN 10 000 000 for: - construction of sanitation networks at ul. Ciemińska in Główczyce, - reconstruction of sewage treatment plant in Główczyce. The municipality of Kępice received PLN 9 700,000 for: - reconstruction, renovation and re-use of the building to PSZK in Kępicy, - the development of the pole region by modernising the municipal road infrastructure - ul. 11 November and the road to the market in Kępice, ul. Railroad in M. Kosib. The municipality of Kobylnica is PLN 11 200 000 for: - modernisation of the park. The first inhabitants of Kobylnica, together with the construction of the Polish Olympians' Road along the river Kamieniec in Kobylnica, - construction and reconstruction of the street. Chestnut with construction of accompanying infrastructure in Kobylnica. The city of Ustka gained PLN 11 856,000 for: - armament of the area at ul. Darłowska in Ustka. The Municipality of Power received PLN 9 899 000 for: - reconstruction of the road in Skórów with modernization of the waterworks, - reconstruction of municipal roads in the area of the municipality of Potęgowo-Rębowo, Łupawa, Dąbrówno and Potęgowo. The municipality of Słupsk received PLN 8 810 965 for: - reconstruction of the municipal road in Warblewo with its drainage and lighting and reconstruction of the water supply network, - construction of the cycle path on the section Gác-Redęcin in Słupsk Municipality. The municipality of Smoldzino received PLN 5 302 994 for: - thermomodernization of the municipal building in Smoldzin with reconstruction, - reconstruction of the municipal road on plot No 164 in Smoldziński Forest along with the infrastructure. The municipality of Ustka received PLN 10 700,000 for: - construction of the CSR building in Duninów, - construction of a complex of fields and treadmills along with infrastructure in the village Objada, - extension of the existing school - construction of a sports hall and a multi-purpose field in Charnowie. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the local authorities in the region, who are pursuing a consistent development policy based on cooperation between the government and the local government and on cooperation between the various local authorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u442	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to the government draft law amending the Act - Environmental Law and some other laws, which concern securing financial resources for the implementation of tasks resulting from the functioning of the air quality assessment and management system in Poland, I wanted to draw attention to two issues. Firstly, the issue of improving air quality in Poland. In the last term of office, I was the chairman of the Parliamentary Group for Air Quality Improvement, so-called. Antismog. The fight against smog started to bring slow benefits - the introduction of quality standards for coal or the introduction of bans for mounting so-called. Cinderella. Social awareness improved thanks to social organizations such as Polish Alarm Smogowy and Kraków Alarm Smogowy or based on the experience of Kraków and Małopolska self-government. On the other hand, the government's actions have proved disastrous for renewable energy sources. There are attempts to suspend or withdraw antismog resolutions, so we must continue to make efforts to make the air in Poland healthy. And the second point, which is fundamental these days, is that history (current political events) has shown us that without energy independence we are vulnerable to political and energy crises. To do this, we need to invest more in renewable energy sources, energy efficiency technologies, including the replacement of furnaces, thermomodernisation, heat pumps.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-09-sejm-56-2.u443	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. At this end we concluded the 56th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 57th session of the Sejm, convened on 22 and 23 June 2022, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 18 min 23]]
