ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u1	Please take your seats. I open the forty-fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, a new attendance list has been drawn up in front of the sitting room, I remind you. Therefore, I am allergic to the need to sign once again. In view of the epidemic situation, I decided to give this meeting a special formula. The meetings will be held at the same time in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators currently attending the sitting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the sitting that they start voting, so-called. polling, Webex will cause a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would also like to remind you of the need to double-press the "Transmit" button: after voting in the voting window and in response to the question of confirmation. One more person from the remote... Oh, she's already voted. Please state the results of the vote. 80 senators voted and so many are voting at the moment. I would like to inform you that on 28 April 2022, the President of the Social Dialogue Council, the President of the National Trade Union Agreement, forwarded a report on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council in 2021 to the Senate. This document is contained in print No 705. On 5 May 2022, I sent a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which was the committee at its meeting on 7 June. She took note of the document. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the first 40 minutes of the sitting, I declare that the minutes of that meeting have been adopted. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I would like to inform you that, due to the failure of the committees to prepare a report on the agenda item including the second reading of the draft resolution on the findings made by the Senack Group on GETBACK SA, this item was not included in the order presented to the State. I propose that items 4 to 8 and 11 and 12 of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on their matters have been received at a later date than those laid down in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose a change in the order of consideration of the 11th point, i.e. Act on port reception facilities from ships, and consider it as second point. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I also propose that the so-called. The PIT Act, at the request of the Ministry, will also look into the first three laws that we will consider today. And after the procession of these 3 laws, i.e. environmental waste from ships and PIT, there will probably be a break for the committee's meeting, and after the break these laws will be voted out. The remaining laws will be considered today by 10:00 p.m. We'll see how much we do. The other laws will be voted at the end of the meeting. If I do not hear any objection to this proposal, we will do so. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? You're Marshal Sewerinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u2	Is it possible to determine today that this vote will be at the end of the meeting tomorrow?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u3	All the votes, Mr. Marshal, will be at the end of the second day, only these 3 laws, at the request of the resorts, will be voted out today so that we can pass them to the Sejm tonight. This was the request of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Climate and Environment and Minister Sobonia. [[Thank you. Does that mean we're done tomorrow?]] We're not gonna be able to finish everything today. Even my natural optimism won't let me wear it. [[Voices from the room: We can do this.]] The fact is that Minister Patkowski asked me to consider one of the laws on Friday, but he was informed that the door could be locked here by now. So they'll have to mobilize. I assume that the vote and the outcome will be held tomorrow. [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] Thank you very much. I state that the Senate approved the order of the 40th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term. I would just like to add that, in the case of the adoption by the Sejm of a law amending the law on assistance to citizens of Ukraine in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and certain other laws and preparations by the Senate committees of the report on this matter, the agenda may be supplemented by a point on the examination of that law. And that's probably gonna happen tomorrow. It is a law clarifying the previous laws, so that it does not represent any particular legislative challenge, but for the sake of order I inform you that such an addition to the order will take place. I'm handing over the lead of your Marshal of Moravian-Stanetsk. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u4	We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 713, and the report of the Commission In print No 713 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the committee meeting which took place on 18 May and the work of the committee was the subject of the review of the Act amending the Environmental Law and certain other laws contained in print No 713. At the committee meeting, we hosted Minister Jack Ornament, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment. The Minister informed the committee that the change is typically technical, is due to the implementation of the directive, concerns the issue of creating noise maps, i.e. diagnosing the problem, and the prescription is to be followed by strategies that will be implemented by the local government. It is a matter of technical reporting, where there is a problem with noise intensity, and the creation of appropriate maps, i.e. indications where it is wrong. These maps will then be passed on to the local government and other authorities in order to create the best possible solutions to minimise noise. At the committee meeting, the most attention was given to the article. 4 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 5 The Amending Act, which amends the Act of 20 February 2015 on Renewable Energy Sources and the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels accordingly. A representative of the Legislative Office of the Senate made a general remark that these provisions were introduced at the last possible stage of the legislative procedure in the Sejm, namely during the second reading. Senator Gawłowski, who tabled 1 amendment, also paid attention to the article of the amending act. The intention of the amendment is that in Article. 184d Act on Renewable Energy Sources introduce an additional editorial unit in the form of a paragraph which will require that the application referred to in paragraph 1. 1, the manufacturer has attached the original or certified copy of the decision on environmental conditions, either the original or a certified copy of the decision on the building permit issued for the renewable energy source installation. As a result of the vote, the amendment received the support of the majority of the committee: 9 votes in favour, 0 against, 4 Senators abstained. In the vote on the whole, the bill, together with the amendment adopted, the committee expressed its full support for the law, 14 people voted in favour, i.e. unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u6	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? There you go, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u7	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. I understand that these maps relate to infrastructure projects such as railway lines, roads, etc., as well as airports, i.e. infrastructure facilities that generally generate noise and are often in a residential hut. I have a question: do these maps somehow involve urban space, those places where there is some cumbersome activity that can also generate noise, e.g. Any big-scale disco? These types of objects are also located there and the noise from them after 10 p.m. unfortunately is very intense and the citizens are asking me to intervene in such cases. Thank you... Was that even mentioned at the committee meeting or not? Oh, maybe that's how I'm gonna direct this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u8	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u9	As I said earlier, this law is the implementation of EU law into national law, it really concerns what Mr Senator pointed out, namely the creation of noise maps by the managers of the infrastructure facilities concerned. So the railroad representative, the railway manager, the airport manager or the road manager is supposed to draw up a noise map in a certain standard and practically show... I mean. With this map we will know what noise we have, whether there is noise as a result of the activity of the airport, what is the road, what is the railroad. And that's it. The manager will work out such a map and this map will be practically available later for local governments, so as to take specific actions to minimise the nuisance in a given environment. In this case, which you're asking about, it's mostly about the urban environment. The roads also run through cities and airports are also in the city. So that this nuisance will be properly minimized later by local governments, local governments will be as if, you can say, equipped with results that will result from the preparation of these noise maps.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u10	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate and Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Gaina is justified because he waited here for an hour, and now he had to go to the Sejm for a vote. I would therefore like to ask the department director, Mr Maciej Mucha, if he wishes to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government. No? [[Director of the Department of Environmental Instruments in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Maciej Mucha: No.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u11	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Director, I have a question similar to the one I asked Senator Zdzisław Pupa. Namely, I mean institutions that generate noise, such as large-scale discos, concerts organized in urban space, stadiums, etc., etc. Does this directive also regulate these issues? I ask because they can be a heavy burden after 22.00 for the locals. That's the first question. And right away the second question: can a citizen, in the light of this directive and the implementing law, apply for such a map in a situation where he thinks that he is simply exposed to excessive noise, and is such a standard, which seems obvious, also proposed in this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u12	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Director.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal, for giving the floor. In answer to the first question, Mr Senator, I would like to say that it is really important to point out that the two European directives implemented do not concern this subject and this issue that you are asking about, i.e. clubs, discos, and mass events such as concerts. In fact, this directive or, as it were, the implementation of this directive is dedicated only and exclusively... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Excuse me, Mr. Director, could you change your seat, possibly, because there's some noise in the microphone and you can't hear. Or...]] I hope it gets better now. Well, like I said, implementing rules don't apply to... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: I think you must approach the speaker. There you go.]] Thank you very much. In answer to your question, Mr Senator, I would like to say that as regards the issue of these two directives that we are implementing into the legal order, they are in fact only dedicated or exclusively dedicated to road, rail and airport managers. They are not intended for ordinary citizens in any way, because they actually impose an obligation on the managers of designated infrastructure facilities to draw up noise maps. To answer the second question... This law and this implementation do not concern the possibility for ordinary citizens to submit proposals or the need to draw up a noise map. In fact, the citizen has the opportunity to appear to the old age or environmental authorities, and I am referring in particular to the Environmental Protection Inspection and the indication of disturbance of silence, calm, resulting from the violation of noise standards. These authorities shall, on the basis of measurements, interventions in particular, assess whether there has been a breach of noise standards and, if so, of course, determine measures and ways of remedying them.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u14	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u15	That's what I'm asking, Mr. Director, because I intervened in the case of, for example, excessive noise at the S17 in Majdan. It is a road that runs to Lublin, and there is at the moment a very intensive building area, as far as single-family construction is concerned, it is a housing of Warsaw. Well, there's a concrete surface that causes increased noise compared to traditional asphalt. Who cares about these problems knows. The residents were a little helpless. And I was hoping that this bill would give citizens some instruments so that they could just intervene in such situations. Because there was a dispute between the general management and the residents, whether to build these screens or not to build them. The Directorate-General claimed that there was no need to do so, the residents claimed that it was necessary. Well, there's a lot of... How will they be resolved in the light of these solutions? As I understand it, it doesn't matter... [[Timer signal]] ...from the citizen's point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u16	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u17	I'm not a minister yet. Mr Senator, to be honest with you about this problem that you are asking and what you are talking about, it is legislation, both environmental law and the Environmental Impact Act, that environmental impact assessments clearly state that environmental reviews are carried out at the earliest one year after the end of the investment, after the investment has been put into service. Thus, in the case of road and noise impacts on the public, environmental authorities, in this case WIŚ, can make such measurements just one year after the end of the investment and put it into service. And it is only after that time that action can be taken to correct, reduce the noise impact on society. In part, this law, which we are discussing here, will facilitate the drawing up of noise maps, because noise maps are documents aimed at identifying and identifying noise sources, for example on express roads, which the senator asked about.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u18	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u19	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, using your presence, I have a question: are there work in the Ministry that would prevent noises, I would call it, unconstants that appear in the course of renovations of buildings? I can tell you that the building that's made of a big album, e.g. cooperative, in which one of the tenants or tenants starts renovating... It's just... Even if it's in hours outside the night silence It's a week's worth of the others. He just acts like a can of resonating, a building like that. Are you predicting that there are rules in the West? Is there any regulation in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u20	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u21	Mr Senator, as far as the current rules are concerned, of course we do not foresee, at least I do not know that such changes should be made. Although it seems to us that the current footnotes give the person who feels such a negative effect of noise on his life, the possibility of intervention. I'm already overlooking the issue of calling the police, of course, because this is the simplest solution, but environmental authorities, in particular the Regional Environmental Inspector, can intervene in such cases. So, in general, a citizen who has a negative impact on what you have mentioned can, of course, go to the authorities to intervene. The authorities should, theoretically, arrive on the spot to measure this noise and take the measures provided for by law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u22	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Mr. Director. [[Director of the Department of Environmental Instruments in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Maciej Mucha: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'm informing you that no one... Oh, excuse me. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is an excellent example to describe the Himalayas of hypocrisy, which appeared during the discussion of this earlier draft law. Especially this part of the room should listen carefully. Because in the document that we received, I am talking about the legal opinion related to the description of the legislative work on this draft law, we will read that 2 articles were introduced into this draft law during the second reading in the Sejm. This applies to Article. 4 and Article 4 5, one article concerns renewable energy sources, the other article is related to electromobility. The draft law itself concerns the implementation of EU noise legislation and those provisions were introduced at second reading in the Sejm. Anyone who knows a little bit about the legislative process knows that they have been introduced in violation of constitutional rules, because it is evident that this is indicated by the Constitutional Tribunal many times over the years, that at such a late stage of the work on the draft law submitted to the Sejm, not on a project which will be notified to the Sejm, but on a proposal submitted to the Sejm at second reading, there is no possibility to submit amendments that go beyond the matter of the law. The Law implementing the Noise Directive introduces provisions on renewable energy sources or electromobility. It's against the constitution, obviously. I assume that the PiS, having liberated these Himalayas of hypocrisy earlier, will vote against this law in its entirety, so I assume, if you actually believe what you said earlier, at least some senators, if you believe. I know that this is only spoken for debate and without the knowledge of the rules of legislation. And that's all in this part. In the second part, I will say that, indeed, if this law were to implement only the noise rules, it should not be said. But I don't understand... I know that these amendments have been tabled by Members, but I do not understand why the government has supported these amendments. I even assume that the government has prepared them, which is even worse for the government. The first of these amendments is contained in Article. 4, says that all those who have gained access to the grid and want to produce energy from renewable sources... By law, under this law, the conditions for them will be extended from 30 June 2022 to 16 July 2024 by 2 years. Why would you do that? A horse with a row of who's really gonna explain it, 'cause where there's a sewn-up business here, I know. From the point of view of the development of renewable energy in Poland, the biggest problem now is access to the energy grid, i.e. the possibility of energy collection. Such an extension, the introduction of this type of statutory provision de facto blocks the possibility of receiving or issuing new connection conditions for those who want to truly invest in renewable energy. Not me, but industry experts estimate that in this way about 4 GW of connection power is blocked; 4 GW, which, if created in Poland, would significantly reduce energy prices in Poland, would have a significant impact on the energy price. Government introduces a solution 'Cause that's what the government does. Which is de facto good for those who have obtained the conditions for connection to the network in recent years and the only thing at their disposal... These are often companies, which the terms of connection and lease agreements on land have signed with the farmer on this principle: we will pay you rent as we build wind farms or photovoltaic farms. And these companies with only these 2 documents are already on the market a certain value, not a small one, because depending on who's counting... This amounts to more than EUR 100 000 for 1 MW of the released connection. I said, why are you doing this? I'm not asking the directors. You're making political arrangements. There is no minister, and the minister supported this solution, he fled to the Sejm. He probably wouldn't have found a rational and true answer to that, because it's really a sewn-up business here, but it's not a state interest, it's not a public interest. This is a private interest of a very narrow group of people. I therefore propose an amendment which allows only those who have actually spent real money on these projects to be kept here, i.e. at least they have created an environmental impact report, have received an environmental decision or already have a valid building permit. These are those who have actually spent a lot of money on projects. In other cases... Spinners really shouldn't be protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u24	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Mariusz Gromko, Jolanta Hibner, Janusz Pęcherz, Władysław Komarnicki, Benjamin Godyla, Ryszard Świlski, Janusz Gromek, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Aleksander Szwed and Adam Szejnfeld made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative still want to speak? I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. Thank you very much. We proceed with the second agenda: the Act on port reception facilities from ships. The text of the Act is contained in print No 709 and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 709 A and 709 B. I ask Senator Janusz Błucher to present a report from the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Infrastructure, as well as a report from the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. Would you mind if I... Before the senator starts talking, I would very much ask you to keep your conversations quiet, because it is very disturbing for the person who is speaking here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u25	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Infrastructure and a report by the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs on the Act on port reception facilities from ships adopted by the Sejm on 12 May 2022. Senator's print number 709. I have two reports to report. Twice after 20 minutes it's 40 minutes, at the minority's request I have 20 minutes. Together it's 60 minutes, but I'll make sure it's not more than 12. The Senate Marshal sent this law to the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. A joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment took place on 17 May 2022. Following the review of the bill, the committees bring: The High Senate will approve the attached draft resolution on the bill. The Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs was held on 24 May 2022. After considering the bill, the committee asks the High Senate to approve the attached draft resolution. This law was the subject of a public consultation with a number of stakeholders, among others. with the management of seaports in Gdansk, Gdynia, Szczecin and Świnoujście, with the managers of small seaports, with the Polish Shipowners' Union and with the operators of the maritime fisheries sector. In total, the bill was addressed to 55 entities. The bill was also accompanied by drafts planned for the adoption of regulations. The Act was positively assessed by the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government. The provisions introduced are designed to improve the ship waste management system. The ban on the discharge of waste in the Baltic Sea area is one of the cornerstones of regulation adopted at both European Union and international level, e.g. within the International Maritime Organisation. In order to implement this approach, the Directive requires Member States to implement appropriate infrastructure and systems solutions that are reflected in the Act. The aim is to introduce a higher standard, a higher level of ecosystem care, environmental protection in our ports and seaports of the Baltic Sea, as well as in the European Union, especially in vulnerable ports. The main elements of the legislation are the regulation of all types of waste generated on ships and the clarification of the conditions to be met by port reception facilities from ships, including the provision of adequate capacity and the possibility of selective reception of waste. Ports and seaports will continue to be obliged to develop ship waste management plans, but the approval period for these plans has been extended from 3 to 5 years in order not to multiply bureaucracy, but also administratively and financially relieve ports and marinas. The Act maintains the obligation of port managers or maritime marinas to submit reports covering data on the extent to which port reception facilities are used. Ports will also be required to issue appropriate receipts to shipmasters for the content of the waste. The new rules also regulate the fees paid by shipowners for the discharge and treatment of ship waste. The aspect of the indirect charge to be paid by vessels at each call to a port or marina, regardless of the actual discharge of waste, has been detailed. This is a very important record. The indirect charge is intended to discourage illegal discharges of waste into the sea, in accordance with the principle that the charge in the port must still be borne. Of course, it will be conditioned by the amount of waste and by the ship's captain's earlier application to the harbor captain. It won't be a very high fee. Ships will also have the right to pass passively caught waste without additional charges. Well, that means, for example. A fishing boat that'll catch something on the way will be able to give it back at no charge. He will clean the sea and not pay any fees. Well, it's hard to expect him to bear. 452 Members voted in favour of the Law in the Sejm, no one opposed it, and 2 Members abstained. Senators Jadwiga Rotnicka, Janusz Gromek, Janusz Pęcherz and Alicia Zając took the floor at the meeting of the Joint Committee on Environment and Infrastructure. Senator Gromek reminded that already in the early 1990s the Swedes published maps with the mouths of Polish rivers marked with the appropriate colour, ugly colour of impureness, and with ferry routes, e.g. from Świnoujście to Ystad, showing what impurities have been thrown into the sea for many years. Senator Bladder pointed out the difference... It so happened that on the same day at the committee meeting two laws were considered: the one we were just discussing and the one we are discussing at the moment. The senator pointed out that one had been prepared by the government and the other by a group of Members. The one prepared by the government, as I mentioned at the outset, was preceded by a very broad consultation, so there was no committee meeting. Too many questions. The earlier one was, of course, prepared without further consultation, so there were much more questions here. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Grzegorz Witkowski referred to all comments and conclusions made during the discussion, indicating that the implementation of the Directive is very urgent. He asked for the bill to be adopted without amendment. Finally, at the request of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, who submitted a motion to adopt the bill without amendments, a vote took place. 11 senators voted in favour of the proposal, 8 against, no one abstained. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka filed a request from a minority who was supported by Senators Alicja Chybicka and Janusz Błucherz. The Joint Environment Committee and the Infrastructure Committee, as I have already said, are asking the High Senate to adopt a law without amendment. The Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, which I am also rapporteur, has made a different proposal, namely that the High Senate adopt the law together with 5 amendments. These are legislative amendments. Senators Danuta Jazłowiecka, Alicja Chybicka, Janusz Pęcherz, Stanisław Gawłowski and Magdalena Kochan spoke in the discussion. The discussion was really about the amendments proposed by the Senate Legislative Office and on note 7 in which the Senate Legislative Office did not propose Admittedly, amendments, because it would mean strict substantive interference in the statutory provisions of the Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 9 and Article 1 31 point 6 relating to the actions for which criminal liability is assumed. Only Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka asked for additional costs of waste disposal and estimation. She received an answer from the director of Ewelina Fałowska that additional costs could result, for example. from more than the declared amount of waste or acceptance during hours not planned by ports. Finally, 5 legislative amendments were voted and the whole law was adopted together with the amendments. Thus, a minority request was consumed at the meeting of the Joint Environment Commission and the Infrastructure Committee. On behalf of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, I kindly ask the High Senate to adopt this law together with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u26	Thank you very much, Senator. In fact, as this proposal was consummated by the Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, who was selected to present a minority proposal, withdrew the minority request. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u27	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator, please tell me whether this implementation concerns only marine waters or inland waters. 'Cause when I read the materials, and I also... How are these issues regulated in inland navigation? Because they're similar problems. So that I would ask you to elaborate on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u28	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u29	Mr. Senator, this law only applies to marine waters. At the committee meeting, he asked a question about inland waters... I don't know if it wasn't Senator Pupa. But this is another issue, and it is not regulated in this law, although the problem of inland waters is probably also very important. I think something needs to be done in this regard, too. But this bill doesn't apply to this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u30	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the House of Minister Grzegorz Witkowski. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure Grzegorz Witkowski: Not at the moment. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u31	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, the same question I asked the senator of the rapporteur, I will ask you. What about inland waters? Well, it's similar problems, and who knows if it's harmful for the environment to dump any harmful substances in a small tank... Wouldn't that have even worse environmental effects than a large tank, like the sea or the ocean? So that what does this matter look like in this respect and how is it currently regulated in Poland? Because this applies to an extraordinary number of people, the more that every year the number of ships that travel inland is increasing. I'm thinking about those recreational yachts, motor yachts, etc., etc. There are thousands of these units that use inland waters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u32	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u33	Senator, ladies and gentlemen, this law implements EU law, which applies only to marine waters. When it comes to taking care of the ecosystem of inland waters, about Polish rivers, about Polish lakes, you are absolutely right to take care of them. In this respect there are 2 laws, i.e. water law, a law which is particularly important, which regulates such things, and an environmental law. That's one thing. Secondly, there are appropriate services that should take care of such things, namely the Environmental Protection Inspection, water police, water guards. In some Masurian lakes there is also a city guard equipped with motorboats and water units that control it. Ladies and gentlemen, as was said at the sitting of the Senate Committee, the amount of rubbish and uncleanness left by our compatriots, who are resting in Mazury and in our rivers, is enormous, gigantic. And that's a scandal. Without the support and cooperation of local authorities and owners e.g. marin in Masurian hotels, which are not equipped with appropriate waste collection systems e.g. from the motor yachts' nests, as the senator said, it will be a sisyphic work on our part. But this law only implements the issue of marine waters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u34	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u35	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, two questions. We know this is about the sea. Is it also about floating small craft, such average yachts? And then there's the second line. Does this bill have any connection with the action or the planned construction of windmills at sea in our zone?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u36	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u37	This bill has to do with all the units that are moving through our marine internal waters. If a sea yacht would have rolled into the harbor and declared waste to the captain, of course, too. There's no way we're talking about windmills here, and it has nothing to do with it. The windmills will have something in common with another law, which we will proceed with in about a month or two, depending on the speed of legislative work, i.e. the law on maritime safety and maritime areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u38	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed and Janusz Błucherz... [[Me too.]] ...and Senator Janusz Gromek made their speeches in the discussion on the protocol. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative still want to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u39	Yes, Mrs. Marshal. I would like to thank Senator Gromek for supporting this bill in the Senate committee. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to ask him to convince his colleagues to accept this law without any amendments, because this law must be placed on President Andrzej Duda's desk as soon as possible. The point is not to bring the bill back to the Sejm, to the Sejm Committee with amendments, because these amendments do not bring anything substantive to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u40	Thank you very much. In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals, but the committees made different proposals. I ask the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held today. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 714 and the report of the Commission In print No 714 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I present a report on the work of our committee on the Law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 12 May 2022. This law was addressed by the Senate Marshal to our committee on 13 May 2022. On 1 June 2022, the committee considered the bill and proposed amendments, presenting its position in a document which was marked as printing No 714 A. Ms Marshal, High Izbo, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, very closely took note of this law, listened to experts' opinions, of course listened to the Legislative Office, examined the work that had been done by Members at committee meetings in the Sejm and in plenary. The Act adopted on 12 May 2022 is a law amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws. As you know perfectly well, tax laws, and especially those relating to citizens, should not be taken in a calendar year and, if any, should be taken in such a way that they can normally apply from 1 January of the following year. The law we are discussing here was adopted now, in May and June of this year, because the law adopted on 29 October 2021, commonly known as the Polish Load, failed in its records and most citizens felt that they were paying taxes higher than in previous years. In addition, the entries in the Polish Lad, in the Act of 29 October 2021, were so complex, incomprehensible and illegible, with many flaws that work on the amendment of this law had to be started. I also remind the senators that the Senate's Legislative Office, when considering this law in October last year, the law which was adopted last year, has been in force since 1 January this year, has very critically assessed the provisions of the Polish Order, proposing many far-reaching changes which were to correct these regulations. But even these proposals of the Senate Legislative Office did not fully address the problems that arose with this law. This should teach us that it is worth simply listening to at least the studies, comments prepared by the Legislative Office, if there is less listening to senators who are expressing their views on the provisions of the various laws. But that's what happened. Therefore, the law that we are considering today is a law that is to correct, to correct errors that were committed in the Act of last year. But for this bill to be in force this year... In accordance with the principles of legislative practice, the provisions in tax laws must not undermine citizens' rights, may at most be tax indifferent or be more favourable to citizens. According to the Minister of Finance's assurances... We can't do that 100%. verify and comply, but as a result of the simulation and calculations made by the Minister of Finance, it appears that these records are neutral or in some places more favourable to citizens. Moreover, what should be worth paying attention to and what should be a problem for all of us, especially for those who are members of the Committee on Finance and Budget, but I think that for all senators, the loss to the state budget as a result of this amendment of the law will be approx. 20, perhaps even 23 billion PLN compared to previous solutions. What are these solutions? I'm gonna talk a little bit about them. But these actions... I hope here, and the committee also hopes that the Minister of Finance, by presenting such regulations and provisions, such proposals for change, has the biggest problem that affects the whole state and individual citizens today, namely the issue of expensive inflation. She's been at such a level that... for many, many, many years, we haven't had such inflation in many years. And this inflation isn't just... Some suggest that it is the result of war, Russia or Putin's actions, but unfortunately it is also the result of government action as a whole. We have talked about this many times in the past and in this House and in the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, referring to the various types of provisions in the budget laws of the last 2 years, which have led directly to the fact that inflation must appear, and to a large extent. Thus, today inflation is the most serious problem facing the Polish state, and the actions of the Minister of Finance should be strongly coordinated with the activities of the Monetary Policy Council of the National Bank of Poland. These provisions, which have been introduced into the Act, concern provisions which have been explicitly criticised in recent months in connection with the entry into force of the Law of the previous year, in force since 1 January. So it's like this. the question of the liquidation of the right of a taxable person to income tax on individuals who are a single parent In this regard, we propose a solution. And on that point... It is also a matter of determining the income of the taxpayer in respect of income tax on individuals and the taxpayer in respect of corporation tax, i.e. the funds received from the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. This law also extends the catalogue of exemptions in question to the amount not exceeding PLN 85 000 in the tax year. The Act sets out the conditions to be met for these exemptions to be used. The Act also refers to the possibility to include in the cost of obtaining the income of health insurance contributions paid in the tax year by the taxpayer of personal income tax, which carries out non-agricultural economic activities taxed on a linear basis. The Act also eliminates the so-called. A relief for the middle class. With this relief, as you know, there was a very serious problem, i.e. the calculation and determination of where and who can benefit from this relief in such a way that it is satisfactory for the taxpayer. This law removes the right of the taxable person to deduct from the basis for calculating the tax expenditure on the paid acquisition of the immovable property entered in the register of monuments. Do you remember that during the debate on this act of October 29th last year... October 29th or October 21st? Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 29 October 2021 At that time, we were paying close attention to the fact that the privilege was simply being introduced here. It is not justified in any way for persons receiving a special relief for renovation, for the purchase of monuments, for the renovation of these monuments, which for those enjoying this privilege... Well, that was extremely unfair. Finally, the bill introduces a decommissioning act... to abolish all kinds of records that gave certain privileges to the taxpayer. These provisions have been abolished in this law, while there has been a clear reduction in personal tax for those taxable persons who are in the first tax scale range from 19%. up to 12%. This is a significant change in base. However, we must bear in mind that, in relation to the previously existing provisions, the contribution to the National Health Fund paid by citizens... This contribution is 9%. So if we were to charge the National Health Fund as a tax, and that could be counted as a tax, because previously the contribution was a de facto part of the tax, then an effective tax for individuals, the lowest one, would be 19%. These 9% Everyone pays, even those who benefit from raising the tax-free amount. This was not the case before, because the payment to the National Health Fund was part of the PIT tax paid by citizens. It must therefore be said that today there is no tax-free amount at all, because everyone pays at least 90% of the contribution to the National Health Fund. The issue of contributions to a public benefit organisation, the issue of 1%. This matter was discussed at a committee meeting because, in connection with the reduction of VAT, the tax-free amounts, these payments may actually be less than they were before. As there is high inflation and wage growth, it may turn out that the amount will be of 1% the tax will not be much smaller, but its actual value will be much lower than it was in previous years. Some regulations have also been introduced here, concerning limited liability companies, the rights of limited liability companies, the shareholders of these companies. A number of episodes have been introduced, but relevant in connection with the entry into force of this law. This applies to taxable persons paying flat-rate tax, lease tax and sub-lease tax. The important issue is that this has been vaguely defined, and we are trying to sort it out in our amendments. It is a question of the Prime Minister's declaration that all those natural persons who, as a result of this new law, which we are currently pursuing, could pay higher taxes than in the previous year, will be able to settle on the basis of existing rules. That's pretty much what this bill looks like. By the way, I was talking about some suggestions and changes that we wanted to make and we made in the form of amendments. The amendment proposed by the committee is 26. There is also an amendment tabled as a minority proposal, which will be discussed separately. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now present our amendments. Of course, these are the first amendments that concern issues related to the taxation of single parents who raise children. We have prepared and accepted the amendment on this matter. This issue is also dealt with by the minority's request, which will be discussed in detail. I think we were looking for the best possible solution here, but at the same time we agreed that we would weigh this amendment so that it would actually be as beneficial for parents, for children, and at the same time not burdensome for the state budget. Then we made an amendment on issues related to... Here are the issues related to family tax, it is noted in the corresponding amendments. The next issue that led to a lot of discussions and disputes at the committee meeting, I would say, was 1%. for a public benefit organisation. The record of this law says that there remains a 1% write-down, taxpayers can make it for the benefit of the public benefit organisation, and if the organisation does not receive as much as it received in previous years, it will be able to apply to programs which will probably be announced by the National Institute of Freedom and benefit from an amount increased by about PLN 200 million in the budget for the public benefit organisation. At the committee meeting, this matter was quite strongly criticised by the senators, mainly because the discretion on the financing of non-governmental organisations from this 1% write-off raised serious doubts. Therefore, the committee proposed that this write-off should be 1.5%. So... Well, it's hard to estimate that to the end, but these 1.5% would give an amount within the limits of the funds allocated to NGOs in previous years. This is between 1.5 and 1.25%. But since there was no compromise between the members of the committee and the minister on this matter, we have decided to propose this amount of 1.5%. The next point is the matter related to the article. The 12th Act mentioned above. The Legislative Office actually indicated that this is an absolutely non-constitutional record, because it was introduced at the stage of already seymous work and concerns the amendment of the law of the Criminal Code, i.e. a law not directly related to... Let me get this straight: she doesn't have anything to do with this PIT Act at all. This is a question related to the law that was adopted last autumn, referring to public disclosure, public disclosure of expenditure by public sector entities, i.e. government and local government units. In the Mother's Law there was such a provision that all expenses above 500 PLN should be made public, in the Seym there was a proposal of 1 thousand 500 PLN, then there was an amendment talking about 5 thousand PLN and she passed, supported by, so to speak, the majority and the opposition, and Members of the governing majority. So this is an amendment that increases the amount of this transparency, so to speak, to make public this expenditure in the public sector up to PLN 5 000. We weren't... I mean. this matter has been discussed for a long time, in the end I announced The senators accepted it anyway. That there will be an amendment tabled in this regard, in the direction of not restricting... not to increase this amount, which is defined as the one above which public information is necessary, but to extend the time to come to this full disclosure, because the Minister of Finance and the public finance units are not prepared to be fully transparent in this regard because of the lack of an appropriate programme in which these records could be made. So we are going to propose an amendment on this issue, which will extend the time to come to this, but it is also about making the system as clear, transparent, public and that the citizen has the feeling that he has access to the full information and does not have to ask for it. The point is that it is well prepared at the level of the municipality... so that this information is on the website of the municipality, the local government, as well as individual public sector entities. And we hope that the time we want to give as senators on this issue will be used to properly prepare this whole expenditure disclosure procedure. But, as I say, this matter has been discussed a long time, we did not prepare this amendment then, I have prepared it at the moment and I will report it according to the intention that was discussed at the meeting. Next thing you know, we've also introduced regulations that we're proposing. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] [[Mr. Senator, you're approaching 20 minutes...]] I guess that's right. [[Yeah, 30 more seconds.]] Yeah, but we're discussing the most important thing, aren't we? So we're trying to... [[Sure, but you're gonna have to recapitulate.]] I'm on my way to the end. I'm on my way to the end. One of the amendments, the last one, concerns the issue of the non-compliance in our view of some of the provisions relating to the European Union directives on public procurement. We are also proposing amendments on this issue. We ask the High House to accept... [[Timer signal]] ...the bill that I have discussed with the amendments that have been adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u42	Thank you, Senator rapporteur, for the very thorough report. And now... [[Voice from the room: Questions.]] No, not yet. And now I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to present a proposal for a minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The amendments we present as a minority proposal are of different importance. I will concentrate on the first amendment, the one that concerns single parents. The amendment was tabled at the committee meeting by a group of Senators of Law and Justice By me, by Senator Ożog and by Senator Mroz. We tabled this amendment in response to many voices from single parents who pointed to the inadequacy of the provisions of the Act already adopted by the Sejm and their contradiction with the constitutional requirement for special care for part families, for single parents. We have therefore tabled this amendment, which simplifies the provisions of the law adopted by the Sejm. In the explanatory memorandum, we indicated that this amendment would allow the tax to be settled in a special, privileged way, for single parents, regardless of whether this child is disabled or not. Accordingly, as a consequence of this amendment, also change, i.e. the reduction will be made on a monthly basis in advance of the PIT tax. This amendment is certainly very beneficial for taxpayers and can therefore be accepted, introduced during the year. I know that this amendment also has the support of the Sejm majority. After we tabled this amendment, another editorial of the same issue appeared. Oh, I'd say so. I mean, I don't know what you're talking about. the amendment, which had been prepared, was proposed by the Legislative Bureau and which was taken over by the Senator of the President. She further complicates the way we use this tax privilege that we are discussing. This amendment, which the majority of the committee adopted with one more voice, assumes an agreement between parents. Because the condition for a tax credit in the version proposed by the committee is that there is no agreement between parents... [[Voice from the room: One more time...]] I'm reading. I'm reading... [[That's not true, Mr. Senator. It's worth reading the whole thing and understanding...]] [[Okay, we're about to have questions for the Senator...]] I'm reading... Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. This unruly side should indeed be disciplined. Yes. There's no need to complicate that rule. The amendment proposed by us is simple, easy to use and does not create additional problems of interpretation or creates scope for additional disputes between taxpayers and tax authorities. We therefore propose that the amendment be adopted in the proposed wording. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u44	Thank you, Senator. Right now... [[Question for Senator Bierecki...]] Everyone's booked. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. There are questions. Who? [[Voice from the Chamber: To the rapporteur simply, and who will...]] [[Senator Bierecki's voice in the room.]] Do you want one? [[Voice from the room: Questions too...]] Good. First, questions for Senator Bierecki. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! So far, experience has taught us that the Legislative Office has proposed solutions to make life easier for citizens, including taxpayers, so I would ask Senator Bierecki to tell us precisely what the difficult and complicated procedure offered by the Legislative Office is. The senator's statement about the amendment of the Legislative Office was judged, so I ask you to give a precise indication of what facts, what procedural provisions and their consequences you said that this amendment would make it more difficult to benefit from this relief.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u46	Thank you very much. I'm sending the senator to page 16 of his legal opinions. On page 16 of point 1.4.1, there is a broad discussion of this issue, which, in the opinion of the applicant senators, will give rise to the adoption of the amendment as proposed by the committee. It may create additional disputes between taxpayers and the tax office.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u47	Thank you. More... Oh, Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u48	This is where it is said that your amendment... Do you know what the senator called for? I'll repeat the question. Tell us, on the basis of what you said, that the amendment of the Legislative Bureau would make this procedure more difficult. You're recalling a completely different record. I've got it right in front of me. So just say it in your own words. It'll be easier. [[I've got it in front of me, too.]] Mr. Senator, I'm asking you to say it in your own words. You either know or you don't. If you don't know, say it and apologize to the Legislative Office, say it's not true that the Legislative Office's proposal makes things difficult.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u49	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u50	Thank you very much. My whole speech with my words. The senator heard that. I have pointed out to you the right point of the opinion that speaks of this matter. I have nothing more to add. [[I assumed you had nothing more to add.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u51	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. Oh, Mr. Senator Dowhan. But the question is, who's the rapporteur? [[Senator Kleina.]] Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] I see there are no further questions for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, taking the opportunity because I'm not going to sign up to discuss this bill... I would also like to make an amendment by using the presence here.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Dowhan. There you go. Question for Senator Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u54	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you said that Polish Load was critically assessed by entrepreneurs, people, tax advisors, Legal Bureau, organizations, etc. Well, something doesn't add up here, because I have here a quote from Prime Minister Morawicki's words in July 2021: "Polish Load is a comprehensive, ambitious program, which has been carefully analysed, carefully recounted. The PiS government has fixed a corrupt public finance system. So where's the truth? Who's telling the truth?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u55	Thank you very much, Senator. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u56	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, we are currently trying to repair Poland's Loads with these amendments and those records that came from the Sejm, so I think that this statement by the Prime Minister, well, was far too optimistic and, I think, rather passing with truth and reality. But that's why... We're in the process of working on this bill in the middle of the year. And that question that Senator Bierecki was talking about here... This may be due to a lack of clarity in the situation that this problem, which is in this amendment, concerns the so-called. alternate care. I think Senator Magda Loven. That explains it, because it's a really complicated case. But the complication is not the opinion of the committee, the Legislative Bureau, but, so to speak, the issues of the records that eventually came here. It's just for an explanation. However, the matter will certainly be clarified, also by the Minister, still very precisely. And just so that the senators here can figure out what this problem was about, also in Senator Bierecki's amendment...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u57	Senator Bierecki wants to ask you a question? [[Actually, using my role as committee rapporteur, I can take the floor...]] There you go. [[...right?]] Yeah, but the questions are now.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u58	It's not a question, it's a supplement that I think will also point to the root of the problem. Because the source of the problem, which also describes the Legislative Office in its opinion, in the place I pointed out, is the case law of the administrative courts which does not treat parents alternately taking care of their children as single parents. Here's the problem. Therefore, the provision concerning the agreement which was included in the amendment proposed by the committee. In our opinion, my and the other senators who have signed this amendment, what we are talking about here may be an additional area for conflicts between taxpayers and tax offices, because we are talking about the need for an agreement here. That's why everyone who, uh, let themselves get angry comments... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...I would like to apologize for just now mentioning the case law of the administrative courts. But this issue is also included in the opinion presented by the Legislative Bureau... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...which points to this problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u59	Good. But I draw your attention... [[Thank you.]] ...that we are in the question procedure right now, not in the additional reports. [[Yes, but the senator was referring to my amendment.]] Thank you very much. I suspect the senator will be referring to your statement at the moment, and it will be an extra non-regulatory one.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u60	I'm just saying. Well, thanks to the fact that I said it was about alternate care, the case, so to speak, has been clarified at this point. And there was no malice from the senators here, only if the senator, so to speak, touched the substance of the matter, it would be easier.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u61	Thank you. [[I...]] Thank you, Senator, thank you. You've finished your report. You can still ask. Thank you, no further questions... [[No, I signed up.]] Oh, you signed up. There you go. Mr. Senator Szejnfeld. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u62	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm gonna have some questions, so if I can't make it in time, I'm gonna ask for another chance. [[But if possible, address them because we have two rapporteurs.]] Senator Kleina. I've been signing up from the beginning. I would like to ask, Mr. Senator, about a case which, in an unacceptable way, was completely shocking and unacceptable in the first one, so to speak, Polish disorder. These are, in particular, the time limits and conditions for the reimbursement of the overpayment of the health contribution. It was written in such a way that the taxable person had to submit an application for repayment by the end of May and, if he had exceeded that deadline, the application had not been dealt with. Well, it's completely unacceptable, outrageous. [[Timer signal]] The overpayment should be refunded ex officio or paid at the end... or credited to the next commitment. [[Mr. Senator, ask me a question.]] Has it been changed, corrected?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u63	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! We have introduced an amendment on contributions here. This is an amendment which was suggested by the Ombudsman of small and medium-sized enterprises, an amendment on how to settle health contributions in situations where the taxpayer does not receive remuneration for his work when invoices are not paid. Does this answer fully satisfy you when it comes to the case you were talking about here? I'm pretty sure that's part of it. I think the Minister can be asked for more detailed information on this subject. We've been on this case. We tabled an amendment, and it was accepted by the committee. But is she enough? It's already a matter of talking to the senator and the minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u65	Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]] Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I have a question for you. Well, we're in an unprecedented situation. During the tax year, the rules of the game are completely amended in relation to tax matters. And here's the question: was there a discussion at the committee meeting? Is there a group of taxpayers who, in relation to the solutions introduced in the Polish Łódź, and which are now being amended by this law, will bear obvious losses? It would then be an unconstitutional act. Is there such a group, or are they all beneficiaries? And my second question. What will it be like to account for those taxpayers who, for example, Did they take advantage of the middle class's relief? Well, they've already taken advantage of it in the light of the Polish Order, and at the moment it turns out that there is no such relief for the middle class. As I understand it, since 1 January, the first group has a 12-percent tax, but there is no relief for the middle class. How will this annual account look like? Was there a discussion on this at the committee meeting? Because I've heard statements from representatives of the National Tax Administration who've warned that it's gonna be... [[Mr. Senator, thank you very much.]] ...armageddon in the annual accounts. [[You're out of time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u67	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Matter is extremely complicated, isn't it? As this will work in practice, we'll just find out. I don't want to defend those records, that's what the minister's for. We adopt the law in the middle of the year, so the accounting is done according to this system, which was adopted on 1 January. Well, the citizen will be able to do it next year, clearing up for the previous year, according to the rules that we are proposing here at the moment, i.e. With this 12-percent tax. It's a mess, sir. We're not saying this mess is gone. Only that it will be settled de facto only after the end of the calendar year, i.e. in practice in the settlement for the whole year. All those possible overpayments, etc. will ultimately be settled not now, in July or August, only at the end of the year, or actually in April or February. Well, at the beginning of the year you can do that. And that's one thing. We have also proposed an amendment, which is so simplistic as to this decision, this opinion, this position which you have taken, you have announced to the Prime Minister. The point is, all those who would lose... We cannot demonstrate this here, but if such groups or individuals appear, they will be able to settle according to the rules that were in force in 2021. So that's all I can say about it today. We have been discussing this issue, and one amendment has been tabled on this subject. And that's how it looks.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u69	I see the senator is lurking for the next question... [[To question.]] ...but Mr Bierecki would like, as I understand it, to answer. [[This time I'd like to ask you a question.]] Oh, question. That's not it. One at a time. Now... [[I'll ask the question.]] But not you now. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski now.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u70	Yeah, I'd like to ask. Mr. Senator, I did not ask about those who, on the basis of the new rules, i.e. the Polish Government, lost in comparison to those rules which were in force in 2021, only about another, special group of people who initially gained on the Polish Łódź, and at the moment, after changing these conditions, their situation will deteriorate. I don't know if it's a big group of people, but it could be. What's gonna happen to this group? Because there's a charge coming up, a question about the constitutionality of this bill. The Constitutional Tribunal has repeatedly ruled that in terms of improving the taxpayer's situation, regulations can be amended in this way in a tax year, but in terms of deterioration, there must be an appropriate period of vacathio legis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u71	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u72	Mr. Senator, we didn't discuss this problem that way, we didn't talk about it. We were just talking about that record... You're talking about a situation where in solutions that were introduced on 1 January, a group of citizens or even individuals... For them, this solution is more favourable than that which will apply from 1 July. At the committee meeting, if I recall correctly, this is a situation we did not discuss. Well, I don't remember... looking the senators in the committee here... No. But after the committee meeting, I heard that there might be people who might be in this situation. We're not talking about the situation here. I've already explained that. The Prime Minister's declaration was based only on the fact that someone had previously received a certain privilege and would lose it on July 1st. Some large families could find themselves in such a situation. I think we're gonna have to ask the minister. I don't feel competent to explain this. If there are such situations, then we will have nothing more than another revision of the tax bill within a year. [[Thank you...]] And that would be poverty. Poor, poor, poor...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u73	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask... There were a lot of proposals, demands from economic, business environments, but also from the SME Ombudsman, related to the changes in past and so-called losses accounting. Bad debts. I have read the bill and it seems that the case was not resolved by the government in the way of the spokesperson and by the way of entrepreneurs, but the committee took care of it. Have you solved this problem?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u75	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u76	Mr. Senator, we have not dealt with this matter comprehensively, while the representative of the Ombudsman was present, there was also correspondence with the spokesperson... [[Voice from the Chamber: SME spokesperson...]] The comments made by the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises, as we are talking about this, about the comments made by the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises, have been taken into account in our amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u77	Thank you. Senator Bierecki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u78	Thank you very much. I have to ask a question that might be a little strange, but it's just to remind my fellow senator that the question you raised was discussed at the committee meeting. The Minister pointed to the existence in this Act of Episcopal Provisions to counter the situation in which the tax due for 2022, calculated according to previous regulations, calculated according to the new regulations, would be higher than that calculated according to previous regulations. The existence of these provisions in this law eliminates the possibility of creating a group of taxpayers who would be disadvantaged. And now the question. Would the senator be willing to share with the High House what the benefit is, a global benefit to taxpayers for the introduction of these regulations? [[Mr. Senator...]] What amount will be left in household portfolios? Could you tell the senator that? [[Mr. Senator...]] I know it was at the committee meeting, but... [[A voice from the room: Then say it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u79	Sure, but you're the rapporteur for the minority. You can also answer any questions you want. Well, at the moment, the roles have changed... You ask the second rapporteur... [[Thank you. Thank you very much. I'll take your advice, Mr. Marshal.]] Use it, of course. [[I'm gonna use it. Thank you very much.]] You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, can I give you an answer? Because the question was addressed to me. And I want to answer that question...]] Okay, answer me, but don't ask the other Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u80	No, I'm not asking the rapporteur. I just want to answer. The case that Senator Jackowski described here concerns a slightly different situation. This applies to a slightly different situation in these transitional provisions. Senator Jackowski spoke about such a situation when the taxpayer as a result of the entry into force of the Act as of 1 January this year. he received certain privileges which he thought were beneficial to him, and according to this amendment, they are worse than they were during this six-month period. And this situation is not described here, in such a way. Well, the minister will explain the matter, as I suggested earlier. The amount that could probably remain in the taxpayers' pocket was mentioned in my report. [[Voice from the room: Probably.]] [[Thank you very much...]] Probably, because I don't have... Even the minister won't say it's definitely that kind of money, because it's estimated. And what it's really gonna be, and in fact, we're not gonna know until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u81	Does Senator Bierecki still want to answer his questions, fill in? [[Joy in the Chamber]] No. Okay... Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u82	High Izbo, Mr. Senator, I was talking about a situation where the taxpayer, according to the solutions of the Polish Government, had a better tax situation than according to the system by 2021... [[Yes...]] ...and now, in addition, this change has made this situation worse. This is such a special group... [[Yes.]] Well, together, you're... [[Well, that's the situation I was talking about.]] That this is the group... Well, it was about childhood and that sort of thing. [[I was talking about the fact that this applies to families of many children.]] And now my question is this: was there a committee meeting about how great this could be a group and could this cause, well, constitutional perturbations in the scope of this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u83	Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u84	I think I've already answered this precisely, too, that just this case and the situations that you're talking about here weren't the subject of analysis. At least I didn't make it clear. If that were the case, it would be a problem concerning the tax rights of the citizen and probably there would have to be some amendment, another amendment... And even as I said, there would be poverty, poverty, poverty I exchanged three times.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u85	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would Minister Artur Soboń like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No, thank you. Thank you very much. But there may be questions for you, and there they are. Well, Mr. Minister, I'd like to invite you to the podium. Senator Arndt is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister... I'm here. Minister, the entry into force of this law will result in a significant loss of revenue for the state budget. This year it is over PLN 6 billion 600 million. Of course, this amount was not planned in the budget. How does the government intend to compensate for these losses? Is he going to, for example. Reduce spending? If so, what is it? I am aware that the revenue of the state budget this year is relatively high so far, thanks to inflation, but anyway I would like to ask what the budget deficit will be, how you plan to do, what the government deficit will be at the end of this year, and what the public debt will be, preferably according to European specifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u87	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u88	Senator, when you answer that question, you have to answer it precisely. The precise fact is that the amount you have said about this year is part of the measures that are lost as a result of the tax reduction for PIT taxpayers, for 25 million PIT taxpayers. In total, it is 15 billion, which is divided approximately in such proportions, devising evenly for the current year and the next tax year. And that, of course, is the amount that stays in the taxpayers' pockets. From today's point of view, especially from business, because among taxpayers of PIT tax we also have 2 million 600 000 entrepreneurs who are taxed on a scale or on a roar or on a line or, finally, less than 100,000 who are left on a tax card... They all also get certain preferences resulting from this change, which we are currently proceeding. And with such important external turbulence factors and thus the pressure on wages, which results from such high inflation, this has also been mentioned today, we as a country are taking part of this risk on ourselves, which is to reduce this pressure by sharing this risk with the market. Therefore, we treat this tax reduction and this change in two ways. On the one hand, what is true and what has been happening here is the result of a public debate which took place after 1 January, also from those voices critical of the solutions proposed this tax year, but on the other hand it is about increasing resilience, sharing this risk with the market and taking some of this pressure, transferring parts of it to the country. We, of course, do not hide the fact that this has its fiscal effects, because by showing the fiscal situation in the APK, in our multiannual financial framework, we have shown an excellent result of the entire sector. I understand you're interested in the senator. Government and self-government, in terms of GDP deficit, namely 1.9 for 2021. That's the result. much better than we expected, also due to rising GDP. But, of course, in 2022, we estimate that this will be 4.3 in relation to GDP, in short, this deficit will be greater. Is he gonna be as big as we're predicting? Perhaps not, but it will, of course, be larger than the values of 2021. The starting point we have, certainly... [[Timer signal]] ...does not confirm those voices, which often appear in the public opinion, about some extraordinary sluggish fiscal policy and, I say, contradictions with monetary policy, which is being conducted today by the central bank. Rather, this is the starting point for prudent fiscal policy and indeed a more restrictive monetary policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u89	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u90	Thank you very much. Minister, I have a question for you. In fact, the situation is that no one at the moment knows whether he is employed on the job, whether he is engaged in an economic activity, or whether he is earning in some other way, which will ultimately pay the tax for 2022, and we are in the middle of the year. Unfortunately, this is the situation. We don't know if there's gonna be another amendment, and I'm also reserving after what Senator Klein said. My question is: did the Ministry discuss this with the tax administration? I have heard the statements of the union representatives who say that really armageddon will begin with the settlement of PIT in 2022, so next year. Can the IRS handle this, or can the citizens handle it? I ask, because this system will be extremely complicated if it also weighs on the fact that business people can change their way of taxation. Well, right now it's just a total loop. As the government imagines, i.e. How can fiscal services and citizens cope with all this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u91	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u92	Thank you very much, Senator. If you will allow me, I will also answer this question, which you have asked Senator Kleina, the rapporteur of the committee, so as not to duplicate these questions. So here's the thing: today is really a complicated situation, so I'd call it, i.e. we are in a situation where there is a duality of tax advances resulting from the January regulation, which was subsequently implemented in the law, and taxpayers settle their monthly advances on the future tax in two ways. This is a situation that is not optimal, so let's say it, but it will be cut on July 1st, i.e. From 1 July the advance system will be uniform and in the annual statement for 2022 we will settle the entire tax year, based on those changes which, if the senators accept them and the President wishes to sign them, will be valid for the tax year from 1 January to 31 December 2022. Of course, that doesn't mean that... what I'm saying to the senators doesn't sound very clear to you, but it doesn't change the fact that this thesis, which is often raised, that we're going to have three tax systems in a year, etc., isn't real. We are cutting through this very issue of two ways of counting advances and complications resulting from this. Of course, that doesn't mean... Here I'll answer your question... excuse me, I don't remember which senator. On a base, on a different premium basis and on another tax basis. Yes, it is. The harmonisation of tax and contribution bases is a major systemic change and I did not undertake to do so in such a short time, on the occasion of this change. Together with the Ministry of Health, with the Social Security Office, with entrepreneurs, with advisers and with accounting officers, we will proceed to prepare such a change in order to develop it comprehensively and perhaps to propose such a proposal sometime to harmonise this tax base, because it is not only a matter of bad debts, but of course a major systemic change. What we did today was this consultation that changed this bill a little bit. Because we weren't really deaf during this consultation, they weren't long, but they were intense. And even if some solutions were beneficial and beneficial to taxpayers, for example. settlement of a reduction amount, i.e. a free amount, from several sources, up to 3 sources of income or a reduction amount in the case of contracts-orders... These would be solutions which would significantly improve the pre-financing situation of those who receive such income, the improvement would be not in the annual statement, but in the monthly advances. But if software suppliers or accountants tell us that this is not feasible since 1 July, then we are introducing this solution from 1 January 2023. Similarly, when it comes to changing the form of taxation. On the part of entrepreneurs, this was an important request during the consultation. It was not easy to develop a common model with accountants, tax advisors, entrepreneurs to create such an opportunity. This was done by harmonising the deadlines, also for a lump sum, of the annual accounts by 30 April. This is the solution that I would say generates, for those who choose to change such a change, the least of the problems, although agree that it means rebooking and contributions, and in their tax books from 1 January to 31 December. But that's an option, I mean. this is an option expected by entrepreneurs and an option in the sense that those who want to take advantage of the opportunity to return to scale in relation to tax benefits after these changes will simply have this possibility. As for the preparation of the National Tax Administration, I will say that of course the National Tax Administration will stand at the level of its task.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u93	Thank you, Minister. Senator Dowhan. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u94	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have three quick questions. First. What does the stability of the law mean for you? Second question. The Ministry awarded 1.4 million prizes for Polish Load. How would you like to comment? And I think it's the most important question. Why are you going through something that's a tragedy in your performance from the beginning? Change of law during the year, legislative mess, failure to keep any deadlines and something that happened probably for the first time in Poland's history, means that during the tax year you change the rules so that you do not go into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u95	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u96	What does the stability of the law mean to me? It is precisely that we give up in this law from solutions aimed at a particular group of taxpayers, in this case taxpayers with specific monthly, selective and annual income, i.e. so-called. reliefs for the middle class, for universal, systemic solutions which are understandable to taxpayers and which give them certain stability in the context of the annual and monthly tax advances. Solutions aimed at specific groups of taxpayers are a mathematical model. They had this flaw in the fact that they could be placed under a line or over a line in a way that was incomprehensible to themselves, in a way that was incomprehensible to the taxpayer, and it had consequences related to the amount of the tax liability. That's how I understand the stability of the law. When it comes to prizes, I don't comment on prizes. I wish you all the prizes. Ministers don't get awards like this. Employees, if they work well, should receive prizes. I've spoken in this case before, and I'd probably do it a little differently. As for changes during the year, this is obviously not a comfortable situation. Changes in taxes are always whether they should be preceded by an appropriate time for their implementation. But we know why we're doing this, and I don't want to go back to it. Today, the change during the tax year is also a guarantee of this... these changes, in order to be constitutional changes, must be neutral or in favour of the citizens. That's what Senator Jackowski was asking, and I didn't answer him. This is a mechanism that we have also written down in relation to this tax year, i.e. after 1 January 2022. Until this year, we have recommended this change, not until 2021. And, of course, in this context. The Court assesses whether the change is neutral or beneficial in relation to the current tax year. We assume that at the confluence of various reliefs, combined with so-called. There may be a tax relief for the middle class of 1 out of 1 000, perhaps about 40,000 taxpayers who could have a more favourable tax liability even in relation to the proposal that we are making today. Such taxpayers will be included in the e-PIT or declaration on an annual basis, depending on the way they are accounted for by the tax administration and will pay a lower liability, regardless of the fact that tax arrangements from 2021 and in this case from 2022, i.e. Polish cargo, do not apply in so far as they were in force. I say, for example. of relief for the middle class. In short, I would stress that what is uncomfortable and undesirable, i.e. work during the tax year, is also a guarantee that changes are neutral or in favour of taxpayers. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u97	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Szejnfeld a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u98	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to ask about the issue of propaganda costs of advertising of the Polish Order, which was completely unfounded, not intended. We already know that. In connection with the action of the State and also the Minister, in connection with the repair of these tax laws for several months more than 15 million flyers have been printed and distributed in Poland, television spots have been broadcast in several television stations, billboards have been produced, etc. Several million zlotys were spent. First of all, I'd like to ask you how you feel about it. Besides, if the spokesperson for the Ministry of Finance's budget discipline will take care of it... he's taken care of it. I mean, did he take care of, in the past tense, because it's already been five months of the year This case?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u99	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u100	Thank you. I have no knowledge of any breach of financial discipline and of the reasons why the Ombudsman should be involved. I also understand that this is a matter that... the Ministry of Finance has provided this information without making it a secret, and it can be assessed differently. I assume that, with this much change, the issue of information policy and the use of different communication channels is natural. But this is not a change that is something that does not have its consequences also for taxpayers today. Because today the amount free of 30,000 remains, the higher tax threshold remains, the benefits for entrepreneurs increasing productivity in companies remain, the possibility of investment accounting for CIT remains, etc. These changes, which were introduced after 1 January 2022, are quite significant. So I wouldn't define it as clearly as the senator does. The senator asked Mr Kleina about the overpayment of health contributions from entrepreneurs. Of course, in this project, this issue is solved in the same way as in taxes, i.e. from the vending machine the trader will receive such an overpayment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u101	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u102	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, we would like to avoid such a ride after 1st of July, which was after 1st of January. So the first question is, are you sure that the changes we are proposing are beneficial? I mean, favorable when? I'm talking about the annual accounts in 2023. Beneficial to payers, that is, taxpayers when making advances. This means that the advances will be the same or possibly smaller. Which means they'll feel it in their wallet after July 1. And the second question is, do taxpayers have to do some work, cancel some statements they made at the beginning of the year, or make some new statements? This applies in particular to taxable persons who have 2 sources of income. It's a simple matter of 2 jobs or a contract of employment and retirement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u103	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u104	Of course, it will be easy to check, because these data were published. I can try to tell you what it looks like in particular groups of taxpayers. But in the second half of June we want it to be accessible to all taxpayers very efficient and easy to use, while at the same time showing the real dimension and advances, and the annual tax statement calculator. And we're working on that calculator right now. The point is that everyone can calculate their actual situation as far as possible at this stage. I mean, I'd like this calculator to be expanded by another function. Now it will be possible to combine 2 sources, 2 titles of income, but I would like to see the possibility of combining even more of them in order to make it even more realistic to reflect our tax situation. Because she's different for every taxpayer. And indeed it is true that speaking in taxes is rarely true. So you really need to be careful here, because the truth is that I've spoken about this many times in public and I'm not hiding it from you. There are such taxpayers who, compared to 2021, even with a 30% reduction in tax on a scale, i.e. 5 percentage points, i.e. from 17 to 12, they had such preferences resulting from the possibility of deducting the health contributions from the tax, which... Well, a scale reduction isn't gonna replace those preferences. It's at least 50 percent of the cost of income. If someone has 50% of the cost of obtaining income, and earns, let's assume, 10,000 zlotys a month, then this someone in 2021 and now, also after these changes, paid a 9 percent health premium, or 900 zlotys... We leave it in our memory. Come on... I put aside social security contributions and in 2021, and in 2022, so as not to complicate this example. I am also putting aside the 43 zloty of the free amount that this taxpayer settled in 2021. Let's look at the health contribution itself. Thus, if the taxpayer from this example could deduct PLN 775 of the health contribution from the final tax, and the tax paid 17 percent on half of the cost of obtaining income, i.e. on the amount of PLN 5 000, then this tax resulted in PLN 850 minus the health contribution. In such a situation, this reduction in PIT is not equivalent to the preference that, taking into account the high cost of obtaining revenue, it was possible to deduct the health contribution. Is that fair, and is that okay? That's another question. But there is a group of taxpayers who, even with such a large tax reduction compared to 2021
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u105	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Frost a question. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm resigning because the answer has already been answered.]] Thank you very much. Next in line is Senator Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u106	Minister, I have a question. Have you calculated the impact this tax reduction law will have on local government finances? We all want lower taxes. You're going to compensate yourself in some way, but what about local governments? Will local governments cope with this scale of loss in the income of local governments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u107	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u108	Thank you very much. By introducing solutions in the form of changes in PIT tax, we have also introduced solutions that stabilise the finances of the local government. In the Act of 14 October Ub. r. we introduced the so-called. development subsidy, a mechanism that stabilizes the income of local government units. We have therefore introduced additional measures in the form of this development subsidy. The reference amount was used for the amount of less than PLN 70 billion planned in the multiannual financial forecasts of local governments for 2022. This compensatory amount... It is levelled in a monthly cycle and stabilizes the revenue of local government units. If we looked globally at the effects of these changes on the state budget The budget of local governments would turn out to be 1:16. So that these effects are much less affected by the local government, but in the OSR we have written, we show that to some extent they affect the local government. The tax reduction means a reduction in the tax base for the local government. I think that the positive changes in the context of the stabilisation rule and the solutions that have already been introduced into the legal order are those that we are now proceeding with. There are also adjustments to these issues related to the revenue of local governments. At the moment, we are also considering that the additional increase in development subsidies from 2023 should be distributed among local government units in proportion to their participation in PIT. That's 100%. will go to those units that lose to PIT as a result of tax changes, while since 2024 only these additional funds, which exceed this mandatory development subsidy, i.e. these 3 billion, will be distributed on the basis of this pro-investment mechanism. There are also issues that the Rural Union has been asking for. There is a question of the allocation of the general subsidy reserve. There is a question of completing the PIT loss for the Silesian metropolis. It is also a question of a more flexible way of making commitments in the implementation of investments within the Polish government, i.e. within the framework of the BGK programme, the Strategic Investment Programme.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u109	Thank you very much. Right now, you're gonna ask Senator Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u110	Minister, the way in which you answer, so humanly, gives me some optimism that, however, there is some reflection that you have caused, preparing yes, not otherwise, the Polish Load and later implementing it. I'm gonna ask you one thing. By making these changes, you did not take into account the constitutional right of incomplete families to special state aid and in fact sent a signal to the citizens that we have two categories of parents. A parent who bears the burden of raising a child or children alone has been treated differently, worse than a parent who is in a full relationship. Hence 2 short questions. Don't you think this is a good time for you to apologize? Mr. Minister represents the government Those parents who, for months... [[Timer signal]] ...did you want it or not, you stigmatized as worse parents? Would you like to assure us today that, regardless of whether this amendment that the Senate will adopt will be wider or narrower, the Sejm will later have something of these Senate amendments concerning single parents to keep this shameful situation going as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u111	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u112	Thank you very much. I cannot agree with the Senator on the substance of things, and certainly with such strong words as the disgraceful situation, for such a reason. As a result of consultations and discussions with the solitary environment, we have first of all taken into account their key request for a return to joint clearing with the child, which was withdrawn and replaced by the so-called. 1500 tax relief after January 1, 2022. If we looked at the bill, we'd see that it was changing during the procession. In the original project, the scale of benefits for single parents was greater than in the project finally adopted by the Council of Ministers. But this solution is always more favourable than the solution of this year, i.e. as part of the 1500 discount. It is more favourable to the vast majority of more than 0.5 million single parents compared to 2021. Why? The amount free is many times higher than in 2021 and this gradation for disabled children and other children, i.e. the so-called. 2x30 or 30+15 for the others is a proposal that, anyway... I can, of course, tell you what it looks like with monthly advances and annual statements for the various incomes of single persons, but this is a solution that is more beneficial for this group. This is a preference directed exclusively to this group of taxpayers. There is no such preference for other people who raise their children because a joint settlement with a child is a preference only for lonely people, for understandable reasons, also for reasons of constitutional value which make this group of taxpayers uniquely treated. In addition, Mr. Senator, we have introduced this law for those who claim a family pension, a free amount, or an additional income title. For widows or widowers there is another amount free, the amount resulting from the survivor's pension. These are not solutions which would be unfavorable, although the scale of these benefits is smaller than the one originally proposed, and hence the bitterness of some of the solitary environments with which I have spoken many times on this subject, I assume, like the senator. The solution that would be to increase this amount of freedom for single parents in the case of the definition that a single parent is one parent is something that will gain the approval of the government and, I hope, the majority of the parliament. I can assure you of my support for such a solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u113	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Włosowicz a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u114	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in the media space there was at some point information that if someone was dissatisfied, because it would not be profitable for him to settle on a new scale, he would be able to benefit from the current scale, the rules that were in force until 31 December. Would you mind commenting, explaining?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u115	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u116	I could comment if I fully understood the question. December 31st. What tax year are we reporting for? [[2021, which is an old scale.]] We had two options here, and I'm saying this completely openly. One is the possibility of continuing these solutions, let's call them, Polish-loaders, that is, extending these mechanisms, which adjusted the amount of tax and monthly and annual obligations, to other groups of taxpayers, e.g. for pensioners in the case of a certain income, because this income is of course not similar to that associated with the employment contract, because the contribution situation is different. So this threshold, where the taxpayer gains or loses, appears elsewhere in the case of various titles of income. Of course, this would be an episode of legislation compared to 2021, designed exclusively for 2022, and we would have to present to you today solutions for the tax year 2023. We did not take advantage of this possibility, although the Prime Minister agreed, in January he considered it very seriously, and he communicated it. We have chosen a system solution, a universal solution, a solution addressed to all taxpayers, including entrepreneurs, giving businesses the opportunity to exclude health contributions from the tax base to a certain limit and on a line and in a roar. And these are solutions that benefit taxpayers. But returning, resurrecting regulations from 2021 or some form of legal structure that would compare tax years, we do not introduce, because, to be honest, it would not be, in my deepest conviction, an optimal solution, a better solution. This is the solution we are proposing today.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u117	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u118	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, if I may, I will return to the local authorities, to what you asked Senator Tyszkiewicz. The question is not only whether it is, because there is a development subsidy, but whether you have such a simulation, whether now the local government's own income in the field of local taxes, those taxes that the local government receives, plus the compensatory subsidy is going to be less than the year or years before, equal or greater. That's the first question. As far as the distribution of subsidies is concerned, because I've missed it somewhere... Could the Minister answer whether the distribution of this subsidy, the allocation of this development subsidy will take place, so far in many cases there, on the basis that where the PiS is governed, it is 100 PLN, and where there is no PiS, 1 PLN, will these rules be correlated in a mathematical manner? And another question that came up to me... But that's not, that's later, because I'm gonna pass the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u119	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u120	Thank you very much. I don't want to quote specific data here, because they're contained in the OSR. Every year we show you what a loss it is and how it will be compensated by this rule stabilizing the finances of local governments. We don't have one today. Contrary to what is sometimes shown in public space Some extremely difficult situation when it comes to starting point, because local governments have successfully generated a budget surplus by closing 2021. And, of course, this is what we paid for at the end of the year. Well, that's what makes this surplus bigger. This starting point is okay in my opinion. The ability to implement property expenditure in local governments is higher, as is the general ability to carry out the tasks to which local authorities are appointed. But that doesn't mean we shouldn't keep working on it. We will work on reforming the entire subsidy system and on the balance between own income and subsidies. I am thus confirming what I announced to the local government a few weeks ago. I would like us to look at how eager entrepreneurs are to move on to lump sums. This flat-rate income is getting bigger. We would like to close this year with an analysis of budgetary revenue from a lump sum and perhaps I'm gonna encourage you to do that. On 1 January 2024 local authorities could also participate in the roar so as to preserve this balance between subsidies and their own income.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u121	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm gonna keep going back to the fact that these changes have to be beneficial in two aspects. This concerns the annual accounts in 2023, but also the advance which will be paid this time from 1 July. Our taxpayers, let's call it, rescued at the beginning of January, made some statements so that there wouldn't be such a situation that the advances were small. In the year 2022 small advances were to be collected But with a year's reckoning... This applies especially to those who have more than one source of income. Then it would appear that they would have to pay in this settlement an amount of several thousand, perhaps even unimaginable for some. The question is: will they have to do something now, before or shortly after 1 July, so that the situation is beneficial to them both in one and in the other? She may be very good about advances, but then these people will have to pay extra. And then it's gonna be... Well, it's just that there's no media noise. Not after July 1st, or just before April 30th next year.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u123	Well, I didn't answer that question directly. Now I say straight: no, taxpayers don't have to do anything, they don't have to change anything here. But if we're looking at this general constitutional principle, whether it's neutral or in favor, then we're looking at the annual settlement. The amount of tax advances collected may vary from month to month, so we need to look at the entire annual statement. But once again, I will stress what I said earlier, in the context of the consultation. There are some solutions that would benefit... and we wanted to introduce them. Well, we want to bring them in and we'll bring them in. They are beneficial, for example. for those who obtain income from the contract-order or from several sources. Agreed, this group of people, in Poland, was most affected by these tax changes after 1 January 2022. She was just surprised because with the fugitives of various income it turned out that these tax advances were higher. The limited systemic capacity to implement this so quickly, as early as 1 July, means that some good solutions for these taxpayers need to be moved to 1 January 2023. Well, it just wouldn't be possible in such a short time, whether it's in the IT systems or it's because of the accountants. That's why I attach so much importance, Senator, to this calculator. We want everyone to be able to take a fair look at their tax situation, giving their own parameters. For example. Sharing accounts with your spouse changes the level of testimony, other preferences change the level of our testimony... So that's the generalization by the minister facing the senators, saying that if you make that much and that's it, you're gonna pay that much and that's that much tax. Especially since then someone like that can say, "Now, and I'm paying more or less." Well, he's something I think he's dishonest, and I'd rather avoid it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u124	Thank you very much. You ask the senator, Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u125	I have two questions for the Minister. It's about this development grant for local governments. That's kind of a targeted grant? I mean, that's where it's defined, what's that supposed to be? Is it just about investment?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u126	No, that's where the current expenses are. [[Excuse me?]] Also investments and current expenses.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u127	But does that result from an algorithm or...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u128	Yeah, it's settled today.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u129	And what's the percentage split more or less?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u130	I'm the one who's gonna write all this down in writing so that the senator can see how it works and in the voivodships, and in the powiats, and in the communes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u131	Can't you tell me how much is there for investment, and how much is there for current expenses?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u132	No, it's up to local governments. [[Excuse me?]] It's up to the local authorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u133	From local governments? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Arthur Soboń: Yes, yes.]] Good. And second question. You said at some point. . Speaking of losses that may possibly be incurred by taxpayers who have been or are still covered by this relief for the middle class In their case, there could be losses that 1 out of 1 000 taxpayers could suffer such losses, or 40,000 taxpayers... This shows that we have 40 million taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u134	Yeah, 30 and 40 thousand taxpayers... That's more than 1 in 1,000. I'm sorry. [[Well, we don't have $30 million either...]] We have 25 million taxpayers, and please... Well, the senator wants to be precise... So it's a little more than 1 in 1,000. [[A little more, though, isn't it? It's a good thing I made sure. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u135	I note that the Minister has undertaken to answer in writing the question asked by your senator. The last voice in the questions. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u136	Minister, after this last discussion about interest... I understand that this Polish Charity is a little better for you, aren't you, Minister? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Artur Soboń: I do not understand what "better" means.]] I'm referring to the discussion of these percentages, the number of people, the taxpayers, 40 thousand and 25... I understand that... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Arthur Soboń: No, no, Mr. Senator...]] Okay, okay, no...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u137	Mr. Senator, I'm so careful to tell you that this is 30,000 and 40 thousand taxpayers, because this will only be seen in the annual statements. If someone had such a structure for themselves, that e.g. Here he was relieved for the middle class, and he bought some antiques this tax year... [[Well, the monument...]] ...and it just so happened that it's very beneficial to him, so... Well, it'll be very beneficial for him. And then the system will just pick it up. It won't happen again next year.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u138	I have a question about KAS employees. You told the minister the moment before that the employees of the KAS could do it. I recall that in the case of the previous version, not the Minister, only then another minister said here: we are ready to tip-top. And then it turned out that KAS employees were protesting because they didn't know how to count it all. Do you remember the minister? And now the first question. Do KAS employees know that there is a new wave, and they know how to count it? There is also a second problem, namely, someone who asks too much has work problems. So I wouldn't want your postmaster from Pacanowa to repeat himself in the case of a brilliantly promising minister, the Deputy Minister of Finance. [[Voice from the room: Very many questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u139	But these are important questions. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u140	If the senator thinks I'm still a great announcer, then... I don't think that's true. But... [[Voice from the room: No, no...]] [[Minister, I don't want to praise you very much, because if I commend you, then... you know what's gonna happen to you...]] [[As they say, we don't polymerize, we just answer questions.]] Of course, we ask treasure officials who they have, because we train them simply to be prepared. And I'm assuming that... well, I'll be careful, as I said, because that's how we have 25 million PIT taxpayers, that's what it looks like if we're talking about PIT and 1 million 200 thousand payers who have to implement these solutions in their companies, in their units, to collect tax advances. We have the entire IRS and the need to implement these changes in the No, it was not a short time. So I don't want to be irresponsible and say that there's going to be a tip-top and that everything's going to be fine, because there's definitely going to be situations where there's going to be an explanation, something to install, something to implement, someone's going to be late. etc. And as I talked to tax advisors, accountants, accounting offices, businessmen, software providers, well, they said to me: Minister, then the liability of the payer... Well, it has to be reviewed, it can't be that we take responsibility without knowing that the taxpayer's situation, for example. She's changed. We have taken all this into account here, trying to do everything to make these perturbations as small as possible and to make it relatively easy to implement, also preparing the National Tax Administration apparatus for these changes. I know that these trainings are already in progress, there are workers who in Otwock, in this unit who train the IRS, are already learning these changes, they will teach more at home, at the units. Well, we will do everything, Mr. Senator, in order to tell you as much as possible about these changes, I too have the ambition to do, of course, outside the webinars, the PFR will help us here in training for entrepreneurs, such regional meetings and be in every voivodeship, so that we will also personally listen to all the voices that are important from my point of view.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u141	Thank you very much. Senator Arndt did a good job, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u142	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I thought that would be the last question, but not necessarily. Minister, at our last Senate meeting, you said that this is the last amendment of PIT within the Polish Order. Will you continue this statement today?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u143	Definitely the last one I'm running. If it was gonna be another one, probably not me anymore.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u144	We appreciate the courage of the Minister. Mr. Senator Borowski... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Artur Soboń: Mr. Marshal here... I answered this question quite precisely.]] [[I'll bet.]] Good. Mr. Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u145	Minister, one more short question: how much would this relief cost for the middle class this year if it were all year long?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u146	I mean, it's just a relief mechanism... I don't know if anyone was counting it, we were counting all the consequences globally... [[No, no, he had to count.]] Mr. Director, can you answer that question? [[Director of Macroeconomic Policy Department at the Ministry of Finance Marek Skawiński: Yes. About 3 billion zlotys.]] [[$3 billion, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u147	Thank you very much. And that's how we got to the end of the question. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Szejnfeld was the first to speak. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's the beginning of June, actually the first decade is about to pass. We are discussing a draft law, actually a Parliamentary law, which, if adopted today by the Senate, will go to the Sejm, then to the President, and has 21 legal days to review the bill, sign or not to sign, etc. And, frankly, when we talk about the tax bill in June, you could at least joke about it: it should be fantastic, so it should be in a normal country, in a country that respects citizens, respects taxpayers, respects entrepreneurs, in a country that prepares draft laws, including primarily tax, in advance so that everyone can prepare for them, not only officials, but also taxpayers, and after at least half a year it is implemented. I'm being sarcastic, 'cause that's how we can praise this term. At least the deadline, not the law, if it were to enter into force on 1 January 2023. Unfortunately, she's due in three weeks. This is a picture of the State of Law and Justice. This is a picture of a state ruled by losers. This is a picture of a country governed by a political party that has no respect for citizens, for social dialogue, for the conduct of legislation in such a way as to serve the state and citizens. No matter how much we weigh, how many people on this shift will lose, and how much it will gain, the very fact that such chaos has been introduced in the course of the tax year is unacceptable. I'll give you one example... If you'll just listen to me for a moment. I'm sure I won't want to run out of time, because this bill can only be said for a short time, very bad, or many hours, perhaps days of materially showing error for error, error for error, error for error... weaknesses for shortcomings. Reprehensible solutions for reprehensible solutions. But for example: a different level of taxation of the amount of contributions is introduced depending on the registration of PKD, the relevant PKD at the Central Statistical Office. The ambiguities are to the extent that traders applying for an interpretation, for an interpretation not to make a mistake to tax themselves in accordance with the proposed laws, requesting an interpretation to the competent institutions, do not receive those interpretations. When they send reminders, they get answers, and with them they've been asking me lately that the answer will be given within six months. The trader, the taxpayer, is to settle himself legally immediately, and the answer to how he is to settle himself will be given within six months. And since this law enters into force on 1 July, we can expect the taxpayer to find out in the following year how he was to settle his account in the past year. One might ask: will the state, at all these moments, when there will be errors and not informed action to harm the state, be gracious? Aren't they going to impose penalties? Will they not draw financial consequences and other sanctions? Experience teaches that this is not going to happen. For all this inability, for bringing chaos, for messing up, and for the loss of taxpayers, they will pay for themselves. As taxpayers paid several million zlotys for propaganda advertising this chaos, Polish chaos, because these laws cannot be called Polish Ład. Just like the officials got awards for preparing this Polish chaos. Like I said, I'm not gonna stretch out because there's nothing to worry about. One thing should be emphasized: with such a policy of destroying the Polish legislative process in Poland it is necessary to stop and the sooner this happens, with the greater benefit for the state, but also for citizens and all taxpayers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u149	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Dowhan will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u150	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! Representatives of the Ministry of Finance! Well, let me put it this way, 'cause practically every sitting, we hear about the raises. Lately, gas and loans and stuff... Maybe later, if I can make it. But you've raised more than 45 taxes since the beginning. Some don't call themselves taxes, but you have to pay them. Well, whatever you call it, the money out of the citizens' pockets is running away. Bank tax, i.e. on loans, commercial tax, i.e. on purchases, solidarity tax... It's even scandalous for me that there's a PFRON, there's a ZUS, and there's a duplication of tax that affects those who work hard, risk, devote their time, their money, and that they can make money, then, of course, they have to be ripped off. In addition, the fuel issue fee, the transitional fee, the electricity charge, so-called. Gallery tax on all commercial properties, including buildings with apartments for rent, recycling charge plus an increase and extension of this fee, bottom fee on marina, water levy, tax on financial contributions to companies, I am only at the fifteenth quality charge for technical testing of vehicles, VAT increase on many food products... You talk a lot about eating healthy but for fish, seafood, etc. The tax went up. You're talking about ecology, but this contribution to diesel, which is added, so greenish, also increased from the minimum rate to 23%. So, of course, there's a lot of talk about ecology, but... [[The voice from the room: To diesel is AdBlue.]] AdBlue. Exactly. He's green, but by the name of blue... You can see who's driving the diesel. Next: an increase in alcohol tax by 10%. Mr. Sarnowski, who is no longer here, went further because he made such a raise... Well, he figured he wouldn't be coming with it anymore, but every year it would be increased from the vending machine. Also for cigarettes... Cigarettes, Minister, this is an interesting subject, well, alcohol too, because margins are similar. In the case of cigarettes, the State takes around 90% price of a cigarette. This is the only product you've made official prices for, I'm told, the Union has ordered. Maybe. So you made official prices, but 90%. . plus minus, to a fraction of the percentage. You're taking it in. 10% the percentage must be sufficient for the farmer, the producer, that is, for the producer, for the distributor and for the retailer. Just divide it like that and see what kind of margin they're making. To the Polish Deal I'm gonna stop here. You put in a note that if someone doesn't make a 1% margin. It has to pay an extra tax. And what if an entrepreneur has problems with high loans, with profitability, with COVID and does not make this margin of 1% ? Do you have to punish him extra? I understand that some corporations are transferring profits to some tax havens. Then take care of these corporations. Why are you hitting Polish family companies? I mentioned cigarettes. On the wholesale market for cigarettes, the margin is between 0% and 0,5%. From the beginning, when it was released, this margin is virtually unchanged, because the range is very narrow anyway. It's now the company has to pay again because it didn't reach 1%. ? Well, everyone wants to reach 1, 5, 10 or 30%. Just like Orlen has. What if he doesn't? Why are these companies being punished by such a tax, Minister? The same applies to impulsive articles of the type of telephone cards, for which it is also less than 1%. Until recently, if I remember correctly, drugs outside the pharmacy were also less than 1%. cost-effectiveness in terms of large wholesale. So how are these companies supposed to approach this? Why did you put everyone in the same bag? Next: e-cigarettes to disappear because the Union something again... Well, maybe that's a good thing. The increase in trash export charges, the freezing of PIT thresholds, the elimination of linear PIT for entrepreneurs whose annual income... etc., the reduction to zero of the tax-free amount on high wages, the deprivation of many groups of taxpayers' opportunities to use... Well, you're fixing some of it here because it's pre-amended data, but it's not approved yet. But maybe the president, if he has 140 advisors, will consider with them what he signs, because by signing this Polish Load, he did not show off, unfortunately. Next: rain tax, tightening the way wind farms are taxed... Well, today, at these prices, wind farms aren't paying off, so you can't get some big solar power subsidies, etc., heat pumps, etc., so you don't come across... After all, money from the European Union has continued to flow to invest in ecology. Well, it's a weird policy for me. Increase in fuel levy, TV tax, sugar tax, well, here also for health reasons, annual increase in ZUS contributions, increase in RES fee, tax on so-called. But you were outsmarted here because they probably don't make 300 ml, they don't make 290 ml, so somehow they skipped the tax on transforming companies in order to benefit from Estonian CIT, plastic tax, increase in court fees, reduction of absolution, double taxation of limited limited companies. Well, that's a punch. below the belt. Komandite companies, mostly family, Polish, with small capital that are developing, which were at a rate of 19% You put it in commercial law, into public limited liability companies, into one sack, because you don't like it, because somebody's gonna make a couple of zlotys, so you had to get rid of it. In general, the legal structure is mega-bugish. Next: increase the rates of the maximum local charges, deduct the possibility of deduction, which was until recently, of health contributions from PIT, including this 4.9 and 9. You're talking about tax cuts, but if you're down to 12%. and will add 9% to this That's 21%. I don't know what's going on at the ministry. I'm looking at 21%. Is that a reduction, or is that an increase? It's really hard to understand. We, the Senate, have made perhaps more than 85 amendments to Senator Adam Szejnfeld with Senator Kleina and have worked with the entire committee to make 85 amendments to save this Polish Load. We practically voted on all of them separately. It went to the Sejm and disappeared in one block without thinking. And today you're doing the same thing. You're doing what we wanted to do. In the Seym, you threw everything out without a thought. How did this happen? Why? Wasn't it brave to even think about the first amendment? And there it was. A lot of really smart corrections, not for those people who are sitting here, just for society, for those you're saving right now. 'Cause what is it... January 1 or 2, the teachers got their money into their accounts, there's noise, the Prime Minister comes out: we're gonna level it out here. In a minute, the uniform got less. And again, no, no, we'll level it out here. It's like patching, spilling. Can't you do one normal system at a normal time? Can't you give people and tax authorities time to adapt? Can't you give time for all this? I don't get it. Vacatio legis is weird, too. This is where you have to tune computer systems, personnel, all the accounting upside down, switch companies to another system, and you give me so short time that I don't know, or it was specially done to irritate society or finish some companies... Some companies have given up on all of this. We have examples, we see how many companies have closed down, how many companies do not buy new cars today. Minister, I have a question. Well, you can't answer now, but you certainly didn't come from the ministry in a 10-year car, and in the Polish Lada you did that when a company leases a car, you can only charge 150 grand, which means you can't sell it anymore, and I think in the ministry and government, cars worth less than 150 grand are not available, and leases are an average of 3 and 5 years old, so when you take the car into such a 5-year lease and it ends, you can't sell the car, you have to keep it for 6 years, which means you have to drive an 11-year-old car in the company. Of course, you can sell them, but then you lose all those things that you couldn't even count off. Well, somebody came up with a phenomenal idea. Today, in the age of ecology, although I think it's not now, but you should change it quickly, because it's someone who's either flying wrong, or it's zero, or it's a comma. Well, for five years, you're leasing... [[Timer signal]] And then six more years, he drives an 11-year-old car. Show me at least one car in the government that's so old. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u151	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Magdalena Kochan will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u152	My previous speakers were very critical of what was hard to call order. No less critical is my assessment of what you are proposing. First of all, I want to say this: if there is a social group that has lost on the Polish Lad, then they are independent parents. They certainly lost it because since 1993 they had the right to account for their child, and now the state has taken away their right. The Senate, seeing these errors, adopted a law at its previous meeting which gives independent parents what the constitution provides them with, special protection on behalf of the state or from the state. Knowing her life, I believe that Marshal Witek will put this bill in a glamorous drawer where she will wait for the end of her term. The state in the government realized it wasn't a good solution. Firstly, it is unconstitutional because it affects families who require special care and assistance. Secondly, it makes the taxpayer's situation worse, so it could not have been introduced other than before 30 November of the previous year and it did not. The Minister knows that. The State of the Ministry knows that. We all know that in here. A comprehensive project that went through the Senate, in which we apologized to single parents raising children, very alone, that the Polish government does not notice that they consider their families to be non-family, that there are such proposals for single mothers, it affects especially lonely women to get married, that somehow they will improve the budget... We apologized for such statements coming out of the mouth of the ruling party. The project went through. Today, Senator Bierecki is talking about a tax privilege that these families can benefit from, a complex system that we have proposed in senate solutions. Well, it's not a privilege, it's a duty. I was talking about the Constitution, and I was talking about the fact that taxpayers can't lose out as a result of tax laws introduced on non-constitutional terms. Our project doesn't complicate anything, grants a single parent the right to tax together with a child. And if the baby's in the so-called. alternate care, i.e. part of one's own and part of the other's own parent, is each one, according to the provisions proposed by the Senate, could benefit from tax relief because each parent is half-brought up by the child himself. The Commission has successfully brought back the proposals that we have presented, which is to say that it has included in your bill all the solutions that we have proposed in the Senate project. No one, Senator Bierecki, has ever crossed his mouth that what you're proposing today is this: a single mom, a single dad, we grant this right, but already in the case of alternate care. No, no, no, no, You're not gonna benefit from this. These amendments differ from those tabled by the committee and from those tabled by Senator Bierecki. Why don't you want to take advantage of some good ideas? The question has been raised by me, but that is the question I know the answer to. And the second thing, 1.5%. A copy. Any taxable person, including myself, Mr. Minister, any one of us sitting here, can point to which of the public benefit organization he is spending his money on. We've set them up, it works great, because public benefit organizations they really transform this little money into unbelievably important and necessary things, helping others. We said: go ahead, use it 1% And share the money according to the rules that apply, or account for, show what you spend it on. We did not say: we will tell you how to spend them better, and already best from Warsaw. And that's what you're proposing in this bill. It's not enough that only 1% 1 per cent of 12%, as is known. is much less than the previous 17% It is yet, contrary to the principles of correct legislation, that you give the Ministry the opportunity to decide in what amount, 30% or 70% with this amount, they will be able to make these organizations according to their prescription, the idea to realize... We don't know if it's going to be 30% yet, or if it's going to be 70%. , or 70% according to their ideas, and 30% in competitions that the government will mark... Because money in competitions This is money marked, it is the government knows whether, I apologize, the National Freedom Institute operating with Mr.Glinski and under his auspices... Organizations of public benefit, even those with years of internship, with the possibility of action and achievements, do not get the background, how much Mr.Bąkiewicz, hobbyed very strongly, because in the name of his organization has either a national or a patriotic one. But it doesn't work by name. And this action of Mr. Bąkiewicz, kept from our taxes, is outrageous to many, including me, because we promote fascists for our money, really. So we're going back to the idea of 1.5%. In order to compensate the organizations for the shortfalls due to the reduction of the PIT tax, we say: leave NGOs in peace. They've worked well so far, they've worked well, they've got and they know the law they're accounting for, because if they don't, they don't have a chance to raise extra funds in the next tax year. The Minister knows that, we all know that. What's bothering you with these organizations? Did they work badly? [[Voice from the room: No...]] Yeah, that's right. Therefore, Minister, it is difficult to say that... Firstly, it would be good to admit right to those who are really trying to take care of the interests of Poles and Poles in a different way than the state. I'm not saying it's better or worse, but it's different, it's more reliable, it's one that doesn't take away, it's self-denial, and it says, "People, we help those whose constitution commands to help." We do not interfere with the actions of those who say: we act ourselves and act ourselves well. You steal ideas, pretend you don't steal them. It's really not elegant to take the records previously passed by the Senate and say that they... From this speaker, the senator says: they make it easy, they don't complicate, and in fact they simply restore the mutual settlement of a single parent with a child. Of course, such an amendment is the right amendment, but it is only worth mentioning who was the author of it and who opposed it at first. In the words of this law, Mr Marshal, there are still amendments that will really facilitate action and provide independent parents and NGOs with what they deserve. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u153	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jackowski should be speaking right now, but I don't know if he's present. I don't think so. [[There isn't. Deleted.]] Then you will speak to Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I will, of course, be critical of the government's policy on public finances, on business and taxpayers' policies, except that I ask the Minister very much not to take it personally. The Minister's problem is... I even listened to you here with some pleasure. The only problem with the Minister is that you don't run the government, you don't run the Ministry of Finance. Unfortunately, you are a representative of this government, and you are also responsible for what this government is doing. You're a representative of the ruling party, and you're responsible for it. Well, that's the first part of the session. It was a previous meeting, to be finished today. We have devoted our rights to matters of the rule of law. There was a very lively discussion here. The democratic opposition really has a lot of reservations about the rule of law in Poland and believes that this is a key issue. But when we talk about it publicly, when we criticize the Law and Justice and the Government for these matters, we very often hear that these are not fundamental matters, that people are interested in other issues, living issues, and this is something that some narrow group is interested in. Well, then let's talk about those things that people are interested in, about the various actions and announcements of the government that were supposed to improve lives, improve people's lives. Well, I think that the opposition that I represent is paying very much attention to the issues of the rule of law, and a little too little attention to how the Law and Justice and the Government carry out their various announcements, how they show their efficiency. If we look at it that way, we'll see that you can actually break any case you want. I think we need to talk more about this. We remember all these electric cars that were supposed to run on Polish streets, and today they would be very useful if we took into account fuel prices. What about a fleet of shuttles? And the luxtorpeda, which was supposed to run at 200 km/h on Polish tracks? [[And the drones?]] Of course, drones were supposed to be a Polish trademark. [[Cavalry!]] Yeah, it's a cavalry. Well, there was, of course, Ostrołęka. The program of living and failure, the fight against COVID Poland turned out to be a leader in deaths. [[Voice from the hall: But not in the streets.]] But not on the streets, yeah. Investments are historically lowest in terms of their rate compared to GDP, and they were supposed to be 25%. So you don't modernize Poland, you just don't. These are just some things that can be mentioned. And at the end of the Polish Load. You big tax reform... Well, I don't want to use words that are generally considered slightly vulgar. I don't want to refer to the Miller's song either, but that's the word you have to use. You broke it, you just ruined that big tax reform. And what are we dealing with today? Today we are dealing with practical implementation of an old, well-known anecdote in Poland about rabbi, poor Jew and goat. First, you bring in that goat... And you brought in some goats, and there were some such goats. The situation is getting dramatic, and then Minister Soboń comes and brings out this goat, one so far. Maybe later he'll be walking more of them, but once he's got that one goat out, he's getting better. We're not talking about those other goats sitting in the apartment anymore, we're just talking about the fact that one of them was taken out. Minister, this is misfortune, this is misfortune. I mean, what you've done with the Polish disorder and what you're doing now. This is a violent rescue, a repression of this dramatic defeat. That's what it's called. That's what it looks like. Of course, the various solutions that are in this bill are positive. It's obvious. Only they are positive because those were negative. That's what it's all about. By the way, you're using a clever maneuver. Namely, when we say: "Well, but you are introducing a new tax system, which is not to be introduced within a year, it is not to be introduced, you say: "No, no. If you have improved 1 out of 40,000, you may lose 2 out of 40,000, then next year with an annual settlement you will be able to choose the previous system on which you have not lost, and therefore you will not really lose. So what are we dealing with? We are dealing with a violation of the Constitution, because the Court has stated to what date tax changes can be introduced, which do not harm the taxpayer. You've twisted it, and now the philosophy is this: we're making changes in a year, changes that many taxpayers will touch, but we say that next year they'll be able to figure out that they're going to choose the previous system, which means they're going to get something back. As a result, the rule that changes are allowed until 30 November falls. You can do the same every time. No. We have to be clear: if change strikes the taxpayer, we have to leave time, we have to introduce it from the following year. In the case of the Polish Deal you did not leave time, you did not listen to anyone, you were in a hurry, because everything was in the context of the election, everything was in subjection to it. There's no consent to this modus operandi that every year... After all, instead of the Polish Deal this year you can choose another system. And next year you will be able to choose a option that will not cause losses. Well, how far can you go like this? And finally, a slightly different kind of thing, a macro thing. Namely, we are now fighting inflation, we have inflation of 14%. Well, the question is how to fight it. We don't hear it, we don't know how to fight it. The only thing that is said is that after all, the National Bank of Poland increases interest rates, and therefore this is a fight. Well, it's a fight, of course, it can make sense and it can give results, but provided there's cooperation with the government that there's a correct policy mix. In the meantime, what are you doing? You're lowering the tax from 17% to 12%. Everybody's happy. I'm gonna benefit from that, too. Very nice. Except you're pumping 23 billion zlotys into the economy next year. PLN 23 billion. And now the question is: how do I compensate for inflation? You're gonna point to Glapiński again and you're gonna say, "Well, he's gonna raise interest rates." But these interest rate increases have certain consequences, and I no longer need to discuss them at the moment. I understand that when there is high inflation, these are some professional groups that need to be helped. And you can't hesitate to raise them, for example. salaries, benefits, etc. I'm absolutely in favour of this. You just have to do it. That's selective. Tax reduction from 17% to 12% It's not selective, it's for everyone. And what, for example? With the teachers? Well, the state is strong when public services are strong. All duty. With us, public services are weak, and today they are being weakened by inflation. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]] You're adding that to the fireplace. Well, you'd like to say It's not coal anymore, it's shredded, and you're hoping it'll work itself out, and all you have to do is pin it all on Putin. It won't get that far and you're just playing with fire. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Timer signal]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, also for the perfect use of time. Please take the floor... [[I saw your marshal and I'm done.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, who, we hope, will treat the punctuality of your marshal as a challenge to himself as well. Please, Mr. Senator, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u156	I'm going to show even more time discipline. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you, thank you very much, thank you very much, and even thank you completely, spontaneously and enthusiastically for solving the problems you have created. Kisielewski said that socialism is a way in which the difficulties unknown in any other system are heroically overcome, and you heroically solve the problems that you yourself have drawn to the citizens before. I'm proposing a little less heroic, a little more reasonable, and we're all gonna be better off. But I'm referring to these changes. You guys haven't completely sorted things out, and I'm gonna say this as a lawyer, not as an economist. Of course, you're sorting things out with PIT, but in the part where you made that mess, like I said, you made your own. But there are things you don't clean up. You didn't get your health contribution straightened out, but you still got your titles straightened out. Today, the level of taxation will depend on the form of taxation that the taxpayer chooses, and even on the profession that he carries out, because the lowest amount of taxation will be charged to IT specialists, and at the most, to specialists working in the field. There's one group that's always fondling power. And every time, I'll remind you of that. Special Tax Agents didn't pay, they don't pay, and, I see, they won't pay. Maybe someday you'll want to change that. Minister, you're the third minister I've told. Check it out. Really check it out. That recipe is there, there's a switch off. The tax-free amount is not a tax-free amount, because a tax called a health premium is paid on the first zloty of income, which the Constitutional Tribunal has already contested, which indicated that income providing a minimum of living should not be taxed. And it's still unsolved, too. Single parents. I don't know what's going on, but you guys are always looking for the worse parents. Earlier they were widowed parents, it turned out that after January 1, they were supposed to be the worse ones, those whose husband or wife, spouse died, those who, for example. They had to run away from their partner in connection with domestic violence. Now the worse parents are going to be the parents of alternate care. What do you mean? Why is there a group of parents that has to be the worse one every time? Let us respect them regardless of what circumstances of life, which are often complicated, come to them to raise their children. Public benefit organisations. Well, say that Poland is a country where public services are often inadequate to the expectations of citizens, it is to climb the heights of the Esopic language in the sense of describing the standard of these services. [[Applause]] That's what public benefit organizations are for. They go wherever the state can't. Why are you sawing the branch they're sitting on? They had 1%. You know, after these changes, that's 1%. It's not going to be the same 1% anymore. An increase in the amount of free money, a reduction in the tax scale, all this makes them get less money. Not really them, but those who are under their care. What about inflation? I mean, it's a whole different kind of money. What did the Senate propose? Did we offer a revolution? Experts said it would be between 20% and 20%. a 40% or even forty-two percent less real money for OPP. We offered 1.5%. It wasn't a revolution. Really, just think about it. So let me put it this way. I have a request and an appeal: maybe less reform. They work out just like you did with the Estonian CIT. The Deputy Minister of Finance, who presented it for the first time, told us that 200,000 entities, companies that could benefit from it, would benefit several tens of thousands in the first year. It took a few hundred. I wonder where your analytical services are, where are those you reward with bonuses and rewards for preparing solutions, decisions that are later implemented. As my faith in these analytical services has fallen, I have another request: do not implement further reforms. Really, slow down with them, let the citizens, the state, all of us, because there are about 3, 4 more of these reforms, and all the taxpayers will be looking for ways to move their tax residence to San Escobar. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u157	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll start by addressing the Minister. Minister, by saying that the Minister is a promising minister, I wanted to avoid some complications. And now I'm gonna say what I'm supposed to say. Minister, you're not a good-for-nothing minister, you're just... I didn't want to say it because you just didn't fit into this law and justice team, in my opinion. But if you insist, I have to say what I think. Then I withdraw from the fact that you're a good-for-nothing minister. And, as Senator Kwiatkowski just said, you will probably come to build these torpedoes, drones and carry out all those projects that were in the previous plan, and have not been realized at all. If you save those 2 towers in Ostrołęka, you'll be super minister and then we'll compliment you 100%. It is tragic what I recently read in an opinion on the functioning of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic governed by Law and Justice. None of the finance ministers had any power. It does not happen that the minister has a fantastic idea of how to manage the state, goes to the political body and says: listen, here's the thing, there's a modern management system, there are priorities, how to do it, various kinds of analyses... Well, not the kind Senator Kwiatkowski was talking about, not those analytical services. And then the political council says yes, it's a fantastic idea. This is done in a different way in your country. I suppose so, because I've never been to a meeting like this before. There's one, maybe two people, and they say this is what it's gonna be. And the minister does. Later comes, defending the Polish Load, billboards are ready, advertising prepared, TVPiS broadcasts... I wrote here that in one of the speeches, the Prime Minister or the President said that it was a program for Bolesław Chrobre or Kazimierz the Great, I no longer remember. So we have 3 fantastic characters: Chrobry, Kazimierz Wielki and the author of the Polish Order, name unknown. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you directly: how to live? How to live, Minister? After all, that's the question one of the paprika producers once asked after the hurricane. I thought that nothing worse in Poland could happen to people doing business. And there came not a hurricane, only... I don't know what to call it, but in the common language it's called Law and Justice. And that's worse than this hurricane. This has already been said here today. If you read... Minister, I very much appreciate what you said today, most of what you said, but I value one thing in particular: when you said that you were talking to accountants, businessmen, associations, etc., that you were talking. And we can argue and criticize you for some things, but if that's the case, and I don't have the right to think that it isn't, and you do, and you talk, you get the information. I understand that you process them, but then comes the political wall and says: sorry, Minister Soboń, these things you can say to yourself at the Senate meeting or the budget and finance committee in the Senate, but here we have a tough reality, we have a few buttons that we will push and Poland will be rich, healthy and constantly under construction. Minister, we've been thinking about a few social groups here. I've always liked the way Minister one, second or third came, whether it's the Minister of Justice... Do you remember in previous terms when PiS came to power, Minister Ziobro came and talked about the eighth or ninth reform of the Supreme Court? And what was he talking about? About 500+, about what a fantastic show it is. He said what you're saying about the Supreme Court is 500+. And they said: we build this whole system with Polish Load especially for the least earners. That's what I thought, and I said, well, maybe it is. That's the way it is... not to talk about it too long, Minister, I'll say yes. Let's take a look at this thing. Everyone or almost everyone will say "okay." But pay attention to that, since we're down from 17% to 12%. How much they gain from this fantastic movement those who earn from PLN 2.5 to PLN 3,000 on the shift with which the Minister came to us. Minister, how much profit do those who make 2.5 make? ? Zero. And if anyone has $15,000 a month, they'll make about $9,000 more in a year because of your generosity. I'm not saying it's a bad move. But stop saying you're improving the system so that people with low income earn better or have better living conditions. As Mr Marek Borowski said, one important issue in the fight against inflation is the system of helping low income people. It's their inflation that you're completely out of control over... As I prepared for the meeting, I read various kinds of studies. One of the independent economists says this: we will fall from a very tall horse. And this is what you've been trying to do all along. You know who's gonna fall the hardest? People with the lowest income They're the ones who will suffer the most, they're the ones who suffer the most. And to show it, I'm gonna say yes. Quickly, on my fingers I counted... I reserve that I may have made a mistake. Well, if 1% 25 million doesn't always give... I could have made such a mistake, too. Ladies and gentlemen, if someone earns between PLN 2.5 and PLN 3 000, then as a result of the changes made by you, this person will gain, so quickly counting, approx. PLN 330 a month. Well, that's very good, that's a very good result... No, sorry, four hundred twenty-something, sorry. And if we count all of this with the earnings of 2.5 to 3 thousand zlotys and we take 9% into account. tax on the National Health Fund, we will add to that not 14- but 10% inflation, let me remind you that inflation is a hidden tax, and if we compare it to 2015, it will show that the situation is... Minister, these are very cool things. At one of the meetings of the budget committee, I would like to verify this in a discussion with you as the Ministry of Finance. So yes, in 2015 and today, taking into account the difference in inflation... It is this person earning between PLN 2.5 and PLN 3 thousand, Dear State, who paid about PLN 180 more. That's reality, you can't curse it. $30,000 is a tax-free amount. Yeah, but if we count the health and hidden inflation tax, we have a dramatic situation today... And the postmaster asks how to live. And he already knows how to live on unemployment benefits. You must answer not only fundamental questions, but also... Besides, the Minister has announced that you will carry out such analyses. And don't tell me you care about the least earners. Dear Pensioners, I am already a member of you. You are absolutely not a group that... You are a group of those who have from PLN 2.5 to PLN 3,000, who as a result of Polish Load and inflation, which is thanks to the Law and Justice and Putin... [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, not together, Minister, separately Putin has its influence, Law and Justice has its own. I'm gonna make it clear that there's no confusion, the impression that you're in the same social movement. No, no. It's not like that yet. Putin contributes to growth, which is all over Europe and all over the world And that's at 4,5%. The remainder is already a consequence of the Law and Justice actions. So everyone has their share here. In short, this care for different environments should look like this. In difficult situations, such as high inflation, epidemic problems or, now, war, it is essential to take care of the system of assistance for the least earners. And now we're talking about entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs ask only one thing: less artistic creativity in law, more stability and serious treatment. Entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship are the foundation of the state, and the foundation of the state translates into another foundation in the form of investment. And, that's what Senator Borowski was talking about, now we have historically the lowest investments. If we add to this the lack of 700 billion zlotys because... [[Timer signal]] ...we're doing everything we can not to get them... Really. Minister, how are you discussing the future... We're gonna fall off a very tall horse. What I do not wish for Poland and everyone present here. I wish that the coming time would be a time of zero inflation, peaceful relations between people and the highest income. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u159	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jack Bury.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We're going to process it again today. I think it's not the last law related to the Polish Lad. I have the conviction with certainty that this legal bubble will continue to be repaired several times, that new things will come out that will require the intervention of both the Sejm and the Senate, that there will again be the Law and Justice showing their goodwill. But I'd like to tell you where the dog is buried. Polish Load is not a new tax system that is supposed to help Poles. The Polish Load is the reaction of the PiS government to the crisis that broke out a little earlier, among others. the pandemic crisis, and how the Polish government managed or rather failed to cope with the pandemic. The government was happy to save a lot of jobs. How much money was spent saving these jobs? The government is talking about about about PLN 150 billion. They went through the PFR that money, through other agendas, 150 billion that we didn't have in the budget. That's the money that really is. Either they're printed or borrowed, which means sooner or later we're going to have to pay for it. And the Polish government is looking for money to pay for its incompetence, which took place earlier. 150 billion. Do you know how much of this falls into one person in Poland? Divide by 38 million, I think there's about that many of us. This is approx. PLN 4,000 per person. That's all the PiS government's looking for right now to patch this hole. 4 thousand PLN each person in Poland needs to be downloaded And from the newborn, and from the retiree. It's a bit of money, isn't it? How much money it takes to pay that $4,000. Plus, there's inflation going on. Here, my colleagues have already said that this is also a tax. Yeah, it's a hidden tax. This is stealing from citizens, especially those who have something. Increases in interest rates result in very high repercussions among people paying out loans. It was supposed to be a little different. It was supposed to be quieter. Banks make a lot of money out of it. I will remind you that in Poland most banks belong to the State Treasury or are controlled by the State Treasury. And they're making a lot of money right now, giving very small interest rates on deposits, and collecting very high interest on loans. People are running out of money. Not just to pay off the loans, but to live a daily life. I know you're going to say Putin, war, etc. But it's not just Putin, it's not just these events that affect what's happening in Poland. I'm, to be honest, wondering if by any chance the P.I.S. Even though he doesn't talk about it It is not the first party that has cared for the health of Poles for many, many years, for our well-being, for our well-being, for good health. Me, starting my career here in the Senate... 2.5 years ago, we started with the sugar tax bill. Then there were arguments that it would be healthier for Poles. They're gonna pay more sugar taxes so those drinks don't get so sweet. But it's not over. As we can see, there are further solutions that we are discussing here. And the PiS will lead to the fact that Poles will really be healthier, because no one or nobody can afford to drive cars. We'll ride bikes or take steps, walk to work. It's really healthier. It will be much healthier for Poles, especially when in winter we will walk or ride bikes to work, leaving houses that will be unheated, which will be cold, because energy prices, coal will be great... [[And on the street, smog.]] And there'll be smog on the street. Yes, you're absolutely right, Senator. That's gonna be a problem, 'cause the masks are gonna come back, maybe not the covid masks, but so you don't get poisoned by all this burning garbage, you're gonna have to go back to the masks. Maybe somebody's gonna make some money out of it. We'll see. Some friend, a friend of a rabbit. I, to be honest, fear for the future of Poland. I fear for the future of Poland, because PiS still manages the crisis. He's running an election campaign all the time. What you are doing is not managing Poland, it is not taking care of the development of the Polish economy, it is the conduct of an ongoing election campaign, so as to please parts of the electorate, the sovereign. You move money from those who have a little bit more to those who live overnight. It's fun anyway. Just at the end of the day, nobody's really gonna have anything. I have a proposal for you, PIS colleagues, since you cannot manage the economy, you are not dealing with how Poland is to function in this complicated world, it is too difficult for you to give your power voluntarily. Admit your mistake. Tell them you've made a mistake, and surrender your authority voluntarily. If you don't do it this way, in a year and a half, that's not gonna be an option, because the Poles are gonna drive you out on wheelbarrows. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u161	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u162	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I listened to this debate and, of course, it went wide, this discussion. But I'm gonna start with this because this is exactly what you're criticizing... The first question, Senator Arndt, to Minister Arthur Sobonia, was how the government would cover these 6 or 6.5 billion PLN, because after the introduction of these tax changes it would have less impact on the budget. And the Minister replied. But what does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? And the Senator of the Civic Platform asked. This means that the 6.5 billion, which will not affect the state budget, will remain in the pockets of Poles. And it's like the best proof of that, and it's said by the Senator of the Civic Platform or the Civic Coalition that these changes we're making are beneficial to taxpayers. There will be less revenue for the budget, which means money will remain in the pockets of Poles and Poles. That's the first line. Second line. Ladies and gentlemen, you are so incredibly hurt that we are lowering taxes. [[What are you saying?]] Senator, do you remember... You've been a senator for a long time, probably a long time on the Platform. 3x15. 3x15% It was a proposal from the Civic Platform that was ground... We're introducing a 12% tax today. . Less than you promised, because you said 15%. . In the context of PIT. And it's 12%. And one of the highest tax-free amounts in the European Union. You can count it, look it up, it's public data. Let me remind you, CIT tax for small entrepreneurs: 9%. 9%. One of the lowest taxes ever. It's a pity that Senator Bury left just a moment ago, who is an entrepreneur, because he could say that there are such low taxes. [[... Percent.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would even say more: what does Poland propose 2050? Now I've heard Mr. Holovnia: let's enter the euro. Even Donald Tusk asked about it at a meeting I do not remember whether in Lower Silesia or elsewhere He began to distance himself from this idea, saying that now it's not a good idea. And what is the creative thought of the new political force that is born? Let's bring in the euro. [[Well, that's good.]] For the senator, who has a pension and a good salary in the Senate, it will probably be good, but for those people who earn PLN 2.5,000 and to whom we have assured that they do not pay tax in Poland, the introduction of the euro, the Senator, is a 20% lower income. That means 20% depleting these people. For you, a senator is nothing, but for millions of Poles it does mean something. [[Do you think if you scream, everyone will believe what you're saying?]] Senator, as you say, I'm not disturbing you. [[But you're screaming.]] That's it. [[Then talk, not scream.]] Well, then I'd really like to ask... You can agree with me, disagree with me, but don't interrupt me. You can have a senator, one or the other, then you can answer. I always try to listen to those voices. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be made clear that these changes that we are making today will result in Poles paying lower taxes, that they will pay lower taxes in 2021... Well, not all of them, because the wealthiest... [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] ...of which you were so worried about Senator Blackbay... The Minister was very clear about this. Minister Soboń said: yes, the richest will pay higher taxes. Because we think today we need to support the poorest. And if today Senator Jacek Bury says that we can't manage the economy... And we have the lowest unemployment in the European Union. A few days ago Eurostat data was published. This is the BAEL method counted 3%, lowest unemployment. That's the effect. It's not about mythical indicators à la Leszek Balcerowicz, it's just about people having jobs. Because if people have a job, they have income, they have a way of living. These are objective facts. Well, unless you don't believe Eurostat, but this is the European Union's statistical cell, an independent cell. These aren't CUS or government calculations. Ladies and gentlemen, the last issue to be addressed is inflation. Yes, inflation is relatively high. This is influenced by many factors, mainly by 2 factors: war in Ukraine and a very, very strong increase in prices of energy raw materials. If today the Civic Platform is so screaming that coal is expensive, I will remind you that it was here in the Senate that you shouted: faster, let's block imports of coal from Ukraine... from Russia, I apologize. Yeah, but the war also broke the coal supply chains from Donbass. After all, it was on your part that we were too slow to introduce some kind of restriction. So that's it... Today I was looking at the price of a barrel of $123 and it's growing all the time. It's affecting inflation. The second factor is, of course, the European Union's energy policy, these climate charges. And you're gonna say, "But we get the money." Yeah, of course, we get that money, but we can't hit energy prices with that money, and energy prices, so to speak, are throwing all the products. Ladies and gentlemen, if only there was high inflation in Poland, it could be said: yes, these are the economic errors of the government. But today inflation is unfortunately the problem of most highly developed countries, including those that have the euro, such as Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, where there is record inflation, 15% , 16%, 17% , and the euro does not help them to fight this inflation. President Joe Biden says there's a high inflation rate in the United States since 1981. [[Voice from the room: How much is it?]] The highest inflation since 1979 has been in the Federal Republic of Germany. etc., etc., etc. [[Voice from the room: How much is it?]] Differences: 8%, 9%, 12% , 13% , Ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: Where is 13%?]] [[The voice from the hall: Yeah, 13% is in Estonia...]] Exactly, in the countries of the European Union that have the euro, so to speak. You're talking about high gas prices. I live by the border, Mr. Senator. There's a line. Czechs to gas stations. And you know why? I'll tell you. Because we have the lowest gas price in the Union... the second lowest petrol price in the European Union. Yes, gasoline is expensive, but everywhere else, due to inflation and due to the war in Ukraine, this gasoline is more expensive. [[Voice from the room:... as she stares.]] Minister... But you know what? You want to come out here? You sign up for the marshal, you're gonna talk, and you're not gonna interrupt me. Yes? I live on the border with the Czech Republic, and I know, sir, how many Czechs are in gas stations. They're not gasping because they suddenly wanted to come to Karpacz to fill up, they're just coming because we have cheaper gas. You can come, you can see, you can leave a penny in the Krkonoše if you don't believe me. You know, this is information... You can even google it if you don't want to go to Jelenia Góra or somewhere in the Krkonoše District. Yes, we will fight inflation because that is the problem as the whole European Union will fight. I hope that the war in Ukraine will end as soon as possible... [[Timer signal]] ...and we will be able to stabilise the prices of energy raw materials, which are the main reason for the high costs, and thus High inflation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u163	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Mr. Senator, I think you've unfortunately provoked all these other people with your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u164	Mr. Senator didn't provoke us, Mr. Senator woke us up. We don't want to be included in a group of malcontents, absolutely. I even believe that Polish Ład enriched, enriched, colored the Polish public debate and therefore I will not hesitate to speak. I think it's worth remembering some things at this point, because they will stay with us permanently. With me will be the words of Prime Minister Morawiecki expressed in July last year in Stary Sącz, who spoke about the Polish Łady: "It is a program that will make Poland beautiful and attract tourists from all over the world. The Polish Load is the appreciation of the beauty and pride of our homeland. Polish Load is the victory of Poles. Through various programs we find Poland's success and victory. Thanks to the Polish Łódź we break out of the frenzy in front of us. I'm a little worried here, though. 'Cause does that mean we've been in the past six years? I think it's the Prime Minister's awkwardness, but it's got to be dropped. For some discussion and creative intimacy. Ladies and gentlemen, please stay with us. I think that their political poetics have permanently enriched our political lives. This will also prevent us from joining the camp of national malcontents. We would also proudly like to point out to those of whom President Kaczyński spoke with concern, that only those who live in the Polish Lad can lose, but knowing the professionalism of the services of the Ministry of Finance, I know that these wise men have been pointed out, named and properly stigmatized, can lose on the Polish Lad. And what is good stays with us and Polish Load, surely in the efforts of officials of the Ministry of Finance, who have already permanently escaped from this marazm, will remain with us through further amendments, which will probably be ahead of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u165	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u166	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After such a wonderful speech, I will shorten my speech to the fullest extent, but I must tell the senator a few things. Mr. Senator, what you said to Senator Kwiatkowski... I would also add that you have a really huge gift of stimulating our emotions and stimulating us to act. I think you could use an advisor on our national football team. If you'd told them a few words like you said here in the Senate, they'd really be full of energy, and I think the world championship would be ready. Now it's a matter of what you said. Senator, please turn off the TVPiS here, please, not what you know from TVPiS or what you heard there, but what's in statistics. I checked quickly. 'Cause I didn't even notice it before. What is the case with regard to this tax-free amount? Check it out! At least 11 or 10 countries in the European Union have a higher tax-free amount. So we're about the average, well, maybe even a little above the average, but we don't have the highest amount, like you said. But okay, you didn't make that much of a mistake. As for what I said, I would ask you very much to sit here during the debate, listen with understanding, and then criticize what falls from this speaker. Because you're out there somewhere in the corner, and I don't know if you have a good connection, maybe you're listening a little bit, you're not listening, you're letting something in, and then you come in and you tell people things that didn't happen here. Then I'll tell you one more time to remember it, since you're here now. I wasn't worried about rich people when it comes to Polish Loads, because I want to tell you that rich people It doesn't matter if it's gonna be Polish Load or not. They'll be fine. Not the kind of people who ruined the economy, the rich people did it. Do you know what it was like in the time of the Polish People's Republic? I already said it, but I'll say it again, 'cause maybe you were sitting in a bar somewhere, too, and you didn't hear it. Then I'll tell you. Do you know what all the craftsmen were doing when in the times of the Polish People's Republic the power said?Now there will be a green light for Polish craftsmen? They were closing their bets. And you, as a representative of the ruling party, are doing exactly that. If you say that Poles will get better because you are introducing Polish Loads, then go to Poland and listen to Poles, but not only to your supporters, but also to people who are worse and worse. Do you know why? I'm gonna say this so you understand. If we introduce a tax-free amount, the person who earns PLN 2.5 thousand will earn PLN 425 per month. Do you know how much he's gonna lose? It will lose PLN 225 as a result of the introduction of a 90% tax on the National Health Fund and will lose PLN 250 on 10% inflation, which is thanks to you. And now for inflation... That's easy to figure out because inflation is a hidden tax. Who's she gonna touch the most? Just the poorest people, Senator. They will be the ones most affected in the event of inflation. And now there's something about inflation. I'm not gonna be smart here, I'm just suggesting, Mr. Senator, if you're gonna be sitting here, sitting here, and you're not gonna be busy, you should read a lot of them. There's a lot of Polish independent economists, not like the Platform or the PiS, but the independent ones. If you read it and understand what they're saying when it comes to inflation, you're not gonna say things like that. The inflation coming from those elements you mentioned, that's inflation at 5, 7 or 8%. How much do we have? 14% ! And the other six,7%. This is the great merit of fiscal and monetary policy pursued by the Law and Justice. I also want to say this: 14% It's today. But, Minister, this is also an appeal, because the Polish Load is one He will bring benefits to the poorest But the second thing is that once inflation lands at 25 and 30%, if not only coal will cost 3 times that and to keep heat, warmth at home, you will have to collect chrust or organize other projects, then you will really have to build huge social programs. But, Mr. Senator, not for the rich, but for the low-income ones, because inflation will hit them the most. And that was the point of my speech. Sorry, I think I need to take a course in clear talk, 'cause it's obvious that one time you've been twisting what I'm saying from that bleacher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u167	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that everyone in Poland is always happy when taxes are reduced, and if this law decides that taxes will be reduced to 12% We're the ones who applaud this decision, and we're happy about it. It is only worth recalling at this point that there is a tax reduction of up to 12% , of course in the first tax range, but this is not the whole public tribute, which is de facto tax the contributions to the National Health Fund are also tax-based. Until the introduction of the Polish Deal or the disorder, as it was said here, the contribution to the National Health Fund was part of the tax and was treated as such. The essence of the 1999 reform was that the National Health Fund contribution was part of the taxes that citizens paid. [[Voice from the room:]] Definitely almost all this amount was part of the tax, tax write-off. Now, this has to be said and it is worth remembering, in practice there is no tax-free amount. If we treat it so that from the point of view of the citizen a contribution to the National Health Fund is a tax, there is currently no tax-free amount, because even though we are talking about 30,000, etc., in practice there is also a tax-free contribution of 30,000. It's worth reminding. It may also be worth recalling that before this new order came about, in the days of the Civic Platform we also did this in the Committee on Budget and Public Finance... [[Voice from the room: When?]] In the days of the Civic Platform. We have conducted such a study as is the actual, actual tax that citizens pay in the case of low income. I'm not gonna tell you now if it was... In the case of the lowest wage. The effective tax that citizens paid at the time was around 9 to 10%. [[Under 10, Mr. Senator.]] Yes? Thank you very much to Senator Leszek Czarnobaj for clarifying all these numbers. You can always speak much more precisely in these matters. So it was clearly less than 10%. It's worth remembering. At that time, of course, there was a small tax-free amount, we would say so today, but she was indeed a free tax amount, she was indeed a free amount. Today she is covered by a contribution to the National Health Fund. It is worth simply adding these two amounts, a minimum tax of 12% plus a contribution to the National Health Fund, because it shows the real amount in which the tax is paid. The second point raised here by your senator is the euro. Of course, the introduction of the euro is now impossible or very difficult, we would say, but there was a moment when the euro could be introduced. I'm in favour of the euro. Poland, by signing the European Treaties, has committed itself to the introduction of the euro. And there was a time when the currency was stable, there was very low inflation, even deflation. There was a time when the euro could be introduced, also at the beginning of your governments. You guys definitely cut it off, there was even a piece of PiS policy that was just scared of the euro. Now we would be in a different situation, I think my opinion is that we would be in a much better situation, for various reasons, here there is no time to tell why the euro would be more stable and safe for our economy. Mr Senator also pointed out the issue of imports of coal from Russia, that this caused such a large increase in coal prices in Poland. Well, as far as I know, the government has recently spoken about the fact that imports of coal from Russia are an absolute margin that doesn't have an impact on carbon trading at all. Today you say it is Russia's fault that the price of coal in Poland is so high. The question is simple: why were such high prices elevated mainly by Polish mining companies? And that's the... [[Voice from the room: Soboń was taking care of...]] Someone's always telling me I'm hearing it again. Now that Minister Soboń is mining He was doing the same thing. Well, I don't remember, maybe he was, but it doesn't matter. It is to Minister Sobonia that I have less resentment than to someone else in different situations. Well, they're not gonna let a man talk, 'cause everyone here is gonna say something on the side. And then it's like that. Okay. Now, there's one more thing. And I'd say, let's say, I'm done. This is a question of fuel prices. They're actually very high. The VAT on fuel has been reduced, excise duty has been reduced and other things have been reduced. Of course, some things aren't until after ... We've been paying attention, for example. for excise duty on fuel oil and only now has this reduction been introduced. But I want to draw attention to what maybe few people are paying attention to. And it seems to me that this is some conscious policy maybe government, maybe Orlenu, that small petrol stations, private, individual, individual, which are owned by smaller entrepreneurs and today they have to buy fuel from wholesalers This is of course correct... These suppliers of diesel and gasoline are mainly Orlen and Lotus. And you know what the situation is? I talked to these entrepreneurs. Today, these small, individual gas stations are selling... Wholesale prices for small customers, small stations are at the same level as prices at Lotus or Orlen stations. What's the point? I think it's probably not an accident. It is about destroying small suppliers, small fuel distributors, i.e. those different petrol stations that are in smaller towns. Those owned by one man or owned by several gas stations. This is also part of such a very dangerous policy leading to the monopolization of the Polish fuel market. He's going to be dominated... right now he can stay. I hope that there will be some reconnaissance of Orlen and those who are to be focused only around Orlen. This is a very dangerous game. This leads in practice to the fact that fuel prices will be outside any control and out of market control. Of course, they will boast that in Germany there is a higher price than in Poland, etc., but that is not the case. If Orlen's margins are so high, Orlen's profits are at the expense of the citizens. It doesn't come out of nowhere. There were no such profits before, even during the current Orlen administration. What's that? Although there are tax cuts, despite these various protective measures, the Treasury company is simply increasing the price above, I consider the possibility of small recipients. So I guess just talking about this deal, about this new tax system... Everywhere where something good is done, we obviously don't criticize it. But it's just basically one big mess, one big mess. He already has a name that has become firmly rooted in the consciousness of Poles. Finally, I ask the minister, the government, everyone: start doing something about inflation. If we can't handle it. And you're in charge today, and we're gonna have problems that we can't even imagine. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u169	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I suppose the next three senators will sign up for the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u170	Mrs. Marshal, I'd rather you didn't comment, just make sure the other senators... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: I'm not commenting, Mr. Senator. I'm just encouraging you to speak. Five minutes.]] I don't know why you're so upset... Maybe it's funny. Maybe that's funny. Well, everyone can laugh at things. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know why you're so upset. 12 percent PIT, the lowest tax, never in the history of Poland, when there was PIT, there was a 12% rate . [[And for Chrobry?]] CIT 9%. Ask entrepreneurs who pay taxes if they've ever been so low in CIT. 3 per cent unemployment, and this is the data of the European Union. Since the unemployment rate has been given at all, there has never been such low unemployment in Poland. This is the data of the European Union, not the government, not Mroza, not Sobonia, not Moravian. Unless the European Commission is cheating, so that the PiS looks nice. Well, these are facts. Now for Senator Kleina. Mr. Senator, I appreciate you very much, because you've been in the Senate a long time, long time on the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Yeah, but there's some pattern, right? If there are high interest rates, banks have high profits. See if you don't believe me. If there are low interest rates, it is unfortunately harder for banks to make profits. That's the pattern. Why do I give this example? If there's a high price for oil, the companies have high profits because that's the volume. We today are what Senator Kleina said. We have reduced the maximum possible taxes on petrol. I would even say that we have reduced more than the European Union allows. We've reduced taxes on gas, etc., etc. We can't lower them any lower, because there's just no way to lower them. In your time, the price of the barrel was EUR 50.60, so it was, neither merit nor wine. Today it's 123 euros and hence the price of petrol is so high: in Germany, in the Netherlands, the record is in the United States, it doesn't like it either, where people criticize Biden. These are facts, these are economics, these are certain regularitys. I understand that some people don't know about it, and I don't know about certain things either. But if you don't believe it, then... Because today we live in such a world that even if you don't know something, it can quickly test itself. As far as inflation is concerned, I didn't say inflation wasn't a problem. Yeah, he's a problem, yeah, we're gonna fight that inflation. [[When? When?]] But, Senator, sign up. Mr. Marshal, did I interrupt you? I didn't interrupt. I've been listening, although I don't always agree with what you're saying. Again, not in the sense that at this point The data from the European Union that we have from April, because the latest data I found, are data from April: unemployment in Poland 11.4% , in the Netherlands 11.2% ... I don't know. Idiots rule the Netherlands. ... [[Voice from the room: Inflation.]] Yeah, inflation. This is the European Union's April 2022 data: 11.2% in the Netherlands, 11.4% in Poland, 11,7% in Romania, 12.1% in Bulgaria, 13.1% in Latvia, 13.2% in the Czech Republic... wait, I have to move here... Estonia - 19,1% , Lithuania 16,6%. Eurostat, April data. It just shows that inflation is a global or pan-European problem, but high inflation is also in the United States. And all countries are going to take or are going to take a series of measures to bring this inflation down. E.g. These country-freaked anti-inflationary shields have contributed to the fact that today this inflation is at least 1.5% lower than if we hadn't lowered taxes on gas, gas, energy. Well, that's the facts. And further action will be taken to allow this inflationary hydra that has nested in the European Union today to fight. The individual countries and the European Union as a community will take a number of measures. The government will also take these measures, and some have already been taken and many will be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u171	There you go, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Is there... Oh, there's the senator. I thought the senator was gone. There you go. [[No, it didn't happen.]] [[Voice from the room: I will never happen.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u172	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Representatives of the Ministry of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! I remember very well this discussion when we were in this House a few months ago in Poland Load. I remember the emotions that accompanied this debate. I also remember perfectly the argument that it was then. I also remember very well the opinions that appeared, generally critical of those commissioned by the Senate institutions, as well as the opinion of the Legislative Bureau. At that time, we had a very thorough discussion, and government representatives were questioned. At that time, it was a certain aftermath of propaganda that lasted since May last year, if I remember correctly. Because recently, in May, we celebrated the first year of the solemn announcement of the Polish Łódź as a revolutionary program, which was to fulfill the Polish dream of the promotion of civilization, materialism of Poles into the next century. It was just supposed to be a revolutionary change. And the political plan was to make 18 million people with average or lower incomes, in some sense, beneficiaries of these changes. And the part that still doesn't vote for the governing camp, so it was considered, was simply supposed to pay for it in general. That was the philosophy of the Polish Order... [[Well, thank you for letting us know.]] [[He didn't have any information, he made it up...]] That was the philosophy, and it wasn't hidden. After all, we remember the famous statements by Jarosław Kaczyński, who said that he who is above certain... is a smart-ass... Yes? It is insulting people who, thanks to their economic commitment, are expanding Poland, giving jobs and increasing gross domestic product. Well, that was the philosophy, and no one was hiding it. Even these government estimates, which were given at the time, talked about 18 million people who would benefit from the Polish Łada. And here in this House there was a very thorough debate at the time. I, too, have spoken in this debate. Back then I was a member of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice And I warned against all the dangers associated with mediocreness, sloppyness, non-frustration of the records of the Polish Deal, which was a typical marketing product and had no substantive justification. Then there was this whole discussion about relief for the middle class, and then there was adding more groups to this relief. We remember everything that's happened. At the time, I voted for the Polish Load to enter on 1 January 2023. I think that any of you who have taken part in this debate Here I am addressing my former colleagues from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice - he was fully aware of the fact that it was legal and financial damage to the Polish state. And yet, as the mantras have been repeated, it is the most brilliant thing that has been invented, and that there has never been such a thing before. Yeah, well, there really wasn't. We're in the middle of a tax year right now, and none of the taxpayers know exactly what tax they're gonna pay. Even if someone has a stable income and knows how much money he'll make in a year, he doesn't know what tax he's gonna pay for this year. And in a moment, we'll find that even in this bill there are errors or legal problems or other things. And there's gonna be an amendment again. And the psychic was when I sent it to the finance minister... I don't know if the High House remembers that. I asked if people who are taxing themselves together and one of them exceeds the amount of the mid-class credit and the other doesn't, can account for themselves together. Minister Sarnowski in response to my letter after probably two months, because I waited so much for the answer, he admitted that they could. Later, I sent a statement to the finance minister on this matter. Minister Soboń wrote back to me that I am basically a misinformed person, because since 24 March on the pages of the Ministry of Finance there is a brilliant bill, relief for the middle class will be abolished and will be 12% which will apply from 1 January. The bill wasn't even in Parliament at the time. This is the answer to the statement I received. Minister, don't laugh. We know each other and we like each other, but, you know, we're not in debate circles where we might be wondering what we're gonna finance dinner with and who's gonna pay for their share of dinner. We are talking about serious state issues, the foundations of the state, the tax system. This is a very serious matter. I sent another statement to the finance minister... And, as far as the answer is concerned, there was still such a punch line that the middle class's relief would be abolished, so my question is unfounded. So I asked the next question. I asked for an answer to the question of what is the legal status, if I remember correctly, on May 25th. Can they account together if there is a legal state that is or is not? I haven't received an answer yet. I do not know if the answer to this question will be justified, because maybe in three months we will be returning to the concept of mid-class relief. This, High Izbo, I don't know. And I would like to say that it is not good that such a serious issue as the tax system is subject to such operations. Today, I was at the accountant's office serving a senator's office. The main question was what was asked. It was a question of how it would all look when the taxpayer would be able to choose how to tax his business. Other specific issues that were mentioned during this debate, when asking questions... I will not return here to these threads, but in my deep conviction the resignation of Minister Kościński, the resignation of Mr. Vice Minister, probably Sarnowski, if I remember correctly, and all that was happening around the Polish Łódź in the light of the assurances that it was the most brilliant of brilliant programs, does not give a good testimony to the governing camp, because it shows the lack of professionalism, carelessness and treatment of the Polish state and the whole political activity in purely pure terms. PR and what to do to maintain power or strengthen support for your group. And from this point of view, these phenomena need to be assessed. Of course, I will support this bill because I am in favour of tax reduction, and I will support the amendments that will be proposed here. I wonder what the Sejm's reaction to the Senate's amendments will be. I'm also curious, Mr. Minister. I hope that's not going to happen, but when I look at your face, I admit I don't know. When there will be another amendment of the Tax Act, when we will be able to discuss it again and when citizens, especially those who have been regarded by someone as smart because they are hardworking, that... Notabene person who spoke about this smartness, alone is a smart guy in the light of this definition, because its earnings are above arbitraryly attributed to the relief for the average class of PLN 12 000 800, as far as I know. Well, that person's property statements clearly confirmed that. So that, High Izbo, I hope that there will be greater strenuousness here when it comes to matters of the country and, above all, there will be no raising citizens' trust in you. 'Cause a citizen might have a different grudge against you... [[Timer signal]] ...but he must be convinced that the state is acting in a stable manner and in accordance with the established rules of the game. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u173	Thank you very much, Senator. And that was the last speaker. [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] I therefore inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, please. For the record, Senators Mariusz Gromko, Halina Bieda, Maciej Łuczak, Aleksander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Ewa Matecka, Władysław Komarnicki and Wadi Tyszkiewicz submitted their speeches to the minutes. I also inform you that the legislative proposals have been tabled by Senator Magdalena Kochan and Senator Halina Poora, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Senator Kazimierz Klein and Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative still want to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Artur Soboń: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister. You have every right to do that.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! However, I will try in a few sentences to answer what the senators here after this series of questions, going to the discussion, they said, because there were various issues. I don't want to comment on the state of some people's spirit, but there are things that are still worth pointing out. First of all, the question of the President. I realize, of course, that at what time It's happening and how we proceed with this bill. I would like to say that during the entire period of work on these changes that I am working on, the President's Office has been informed and involved, so I do not assume here any other situation than the President's agreement that we should be able to make these changes from 1 July. Secondly, here are the issues that have been raised and with which I will return I refer to the question of Senator Jackowski To the High House. This is even a matter of minimum CIT, perhaps also changes in roaring, as was also mentioned here. We're not planning on doing this right now, but I'm sure the number of stakes is causing complications, as we're talking about here, and it could be sorted out. The CIT issue will be a change which I will also propose to the High House, the Senate here. Senator Kochan said we were stealing ideas that we didn't want to use good ideas. Well, I'll pay attention, trying to be a person who doesn't look for conflict without meaning, including the political one, and especially in a case that I don't think justifies such a dispute... As soon as I was in the Ministry of Finance responsible for tax issues, there was a question of remanent differences and quickly joining k.s.h. that change. And where the Senate's amendments, the Senate's majority, were okay, there I also recommended that they be accepted by the Sejm. And that's how it's gonna be now. I think it's a normal work formula. Among these amendments, which have been tabled, will be such How far I've gotten to know them That will have a government recommendation to be adopted by the Sejm and those which will not have such a recommendation. Of course, we can talk about the tax and contribution system as something that is one obligation, but it doesn't work the same way. Let us not deceive ourselves and mislead taxpayers. The purpose of the premium scheme is different, the purpose of the tax system is different. The differences and the tax base, and the way both systems work, have been and will be. It would probably be desirable to harmonise them to some extent, and I was talking about that too. But mixing this for the public debate is pointless, in my opinion, because the senators know very well that the amount free relates to tax obligations rather than contributions. Well, contributions are... Even the contributions themselves differ. There is no limit on health contributions, but there is a limit on social security contributions. And that, too, I think, is understandable to the senators. As far as public benefit organisations are concerned, we are complementing these funds from the state budget. We're just pointing out, Mr. Senator, that a decrease in PIT revenue means a decrease in revenue from 1%. tax. The way it will be distributed also arouses discussions and emotions. Well, this discussion arouses emotions among the public benefit organizations themselves. There is no compatibility between these large entities and the smallest ones as to how they should ultimately be distributed to these organisations. But this debate is ahead of us. The outcome of this debate will be a regulation which will determine the proportions. But, as a rule, we are balancing these funds, we are passing them directly from the state budget. I never said... Well, I would never say that. However, I ask Senator Kwiatkowski to be honest in the public debate. I didn't say alternate care was a worse form of babysitting. But this is not exactly the same as the situation of a single person or a single parent. That's all I wanted to say in this discussion. This also results in a difference in tax preferences. Of course, that's... that's what Senator Borowski said here, like a few other senators. Selective solutions can be used, common solutions can be used. Even these common solutions do not work equally, because the scale of the tax reduction is, of course, not the same for all taxpayers. If the taxpayer still had zero PIT today, he didn't pay that tax at all because of his income, then of course this change is neutral for him. If he is close to this threshold of 120 thousand, then of course he will feel these benefits to the greatest extent. The maximum amount is 4.5 thousand for tax liabilities during the tax year. But I want to stress clearly something that can be easily verified. This system is more progressive after these changes than the 2021 tax system. He is more progressive both for those who earn the least, because the scale of benefits is then greatest, and for those who earn the most. This threshold is today the amount of PLN 18,000. All those who earn less than PLN 18,000 in 2021 and earn the same amount today are below this curve from 2021, and for those who earn more than PLN 18,000, this curve is growing. In 2021 it was a constant curve. So this system is more progressive. As for this non-tax discussion, I'm gonna pass on that. The fact that we designed and announced these changes... Well, I've told the senators fair and square about them. Senator Jackowski asked if it was worth taking an interest in what the government is designing. I told you what we were designing. Indeed, we are designing this as solutions in force from 1 January to 31 December 2022. You know, if we really looked at what could have been done in the course of the tax year today, we would understand that it could have been done either an episode solution for 2022, or a solution that would have been a solution for 2023, but it would have been in 2022. Of course, if there is no change here, it will also apply in the following tax years. Well, in my opinion, it is a really better proposal than those proposals to correct or correct those solutions that actually raised taxpayers' doubts, i.e. above all the so-called ones. A relief for the middle class. Finally, it is a question of accounting or re-opportunity to change the form of taxation on the part of entrepreneurs. Well, we in the original project did not propose this solution because we agree that this is a solution that will cause accounting difficulties, because we simply need to rebook and taxes, and contributions for the whole tax year. But it was a clear expectation of entrepreneurs. And after long discussions with the accounting community, tax advisors and entrepreneurs, we have developed a solution that is feasible. And that's how we worked on this project. It is not an ideal solution, but it is the best possible and most honest solution to entrepreneurs that could be worked out under these conditions. And at the end of the day, there's a thread that's been going through here over and over again. What I'm trying to say is that I'm a little bit of an age... I address Senator Czarnobaj. As in the "Buylets": "We found ourselves at an age, difficult advice/that man had stopped promising well." But on the other hand, man rejoices/that he also stopped promising badly. Really, I will not be charmed so easily, because what we do, as a government, is for the benefit of Poles, not only in this sphere, but in the whole government policy. And to be honest, to be honest... Because some of these voices of the senators were moderately kind, sometimes quite kind, sometimes criticizing something I found, so that I was critical of it myself in the Ministry of Finance. But there has never, in this debate, been any meaningful, constructive proposal from the opposition towards the current government, which could be done differently and how it could be done differently. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u175	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will take place today, but as legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. And at this point, I'm managing a break that will take an hour and 15 minutes, which is until 9:45. After this interruption, there will be a vote on those laws which were discussed today before this item and on this item on the agenda. I'm also asking you to listen to the announcements.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u176	Communication No 1: Joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, the Environment and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs on the consideration of the proposals submitted in the course of the debate to the Act on port reception facilities from ships will take place 5 minutes after the announcement of the interruption in room 217. I Communication No 2: the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of proposals for the Act amending the Act on Personal Income Tax and some other laws will take place 15 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in Room 176. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 28 to 22 minutes 05]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u177	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Environmental Law and some other laws. The Environment Committee has presented a draft resolution requesting an amendment to the Act; Senate printing No 713 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the committee, which complements the scope of the regulation for the introduction of an additional condition in the form of mandatory addition of environmental decisions or building permits, while maintaining the existing network connection agreements for the categories of renewable energy source set out in the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I don't see any remote votes... If one of the remote people had a look... He's already passed the vote. Please state the results of the vote. 92 Senators voted 91 for, no one opposed, and one Senator abstained. [[Voting No 1]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. Senator Szejnfeld, look if the voice has been sent. Thank you. Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Environmental Law and some other laws. We return to the second agenda: the Law on port reception facilities from ships. The Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Infrastructure held a meeting during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 709 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Janusz Błucher, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my pleasure to present the report mentioned by your marshal of the committee. The Commissions at its meeting on 8 June 2022 considered the proposals made during the debate today on the Law on port reception facilities for ship waste and put forward the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is ready to accept the proposals set out in point II, paragraph 1. And this is also the request: at the committee meeting, everyone agreed that amendments No. 1 and 5, which are technical and legislative in nature, order the terminology, ensure the legibility of the rules and their compliance with the intention of the legislator, vote together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u179	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you that a minority of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on the Environment have withdrawn their requests for amendments to the Act. These were the same amendments as the amendments tabled by the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and will be put to the vote as the proposals of this committee. If I do not hear any objections, the amendments will be put to the vote together. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal from the Environment Committee and the Infrastructure Committee to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 42 for, 52 against, and 1 senator abstained. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we proceed to the vote on the amendments tabled. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 53 for, 42 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 4]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 94 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on port equipment for the collection of waste from ships. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 714 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I recommend the adoption of amendments which have been prepared by the senators and accepted by the committee. Those are Amendments 2.31. So we recommend that all amendments be accepted without amendment 1. In addition, I inform you that on the basis of the article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The Senate Rules of Procedure have changed the content of its proposal. In this way, this proposal has become point 2 of the table of proposals.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u181	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? I would like to remind you that in the course of the discussion, the senators Magdalena Kochan, Halina Bieda, Kazimierz Kleina, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Wadi Tyszkiewicz and Grzegorz Bierecki presented their conclusions, and the rapporteur for the minority of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance was Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u182	I would also like to ask, on behalf of the committee, for a total vote on Amendments 5, 6, 7, 11, 15, 16, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27 and 29. These amendments are legislative and editorial. They raised no doubt at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-senat-44-1.u183	Thank you very much. There is also a suggestion from legislators to vote on amendments 8, 9, 12, 13 and 31 together. [[Yes, these amendments should be voted on together, because this is due to the design of these amendments.]] We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Attention, Amendment 1 will rule out voting on Amendments 2 and 3. We are voting on Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 4 for, 91 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 92 for, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 89 for, 6 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 56 for, 39 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 9]] Together, we are voting on Amendments 5, 6, 7, 11, 15, 16, 19, 20, 22, 27 and 29. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Komorowski could point out whether the signal was sent... It's been sent. Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 77 for, 17 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 10]] Attention, amendments 8, 9, 12, 13 and 31 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 63 for, 30 against, 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 10. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 64 for, 31 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 14. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? If Senator Dobkowski could see if he sent a signal... Thank you. Please state the results of the vote. 94 Senators voted, 59 for, 29 against, 6 senators abstained. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 17. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Boris-Damięcka, please see if the signal has been sent. Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 18. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 21. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 93 for, 2 against, no senator abstained. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 28. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Rotnicka... Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 30. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Godyla, if he could see if the signal went... Thank you. Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 89 for, 6 against, no senator abstained. [[Voting No 18]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 75 were in favour, no senator was against, 19 abstentions. [[Voting No 19]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws. We've finished processing point three. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. Do we have a message? [[No.]] We don't. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 22 minutes 24]]
