ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u1	I open the forty-first sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senators Viktor Durlak and Alexander Schwed to be the Secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Alexander Swed. Dear Senators, in connection with the outbreak, after consulting the Senior Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a special formula, i.e. the deliberations will take place in a traditional way and using means of distance communication, which are governed by the principles set out in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. Please subscribe to the questions and to the discussion via the chat in the application, and send your legislative requests, speeches in the discussion and statements via email to the address sent to you in advance by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal, under which you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Marshal and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Office. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. I therefore ask that you give any vote to confirm your presence. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 89 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the sitting. Dear Senators, 20 April this year. in the Pavłowice mine, and on 24 April in the Zofiówka mine in Jastrzębie-Zdrój there were mining disasters as a result of the release and explosion of methane. So far, 18 miners have died, many are injured. I ask the senators to rise and celebrate a minute of silence in the memory of the dead miners. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord.]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them."]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. It's not the end of sad messages. On 23 April 2022, Mr Tadeusz Rzemykowski, Vice-Marshal of the Senate of the 4th term of office, Senator III, IV and V of his term of office died. He was Vice-President of the Committee on National Economy and Member of the Sub-Committee on Regional Policy in the 3rd term of office and worked in the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Senators' Affairs in the 4th and 5th term of office. In Senate V, he served as chairman of the Committee on Immigration and Poles abroad. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the late Senator. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its 50th second meeting on 13 April 2022, adopted most of the Senate's amendments to the Act on Special Solutions to Combat Supporting Aggression to Ukraine and to Protect National Security. I would also like to inform you that the minutes of the Thirty-eight and Thirty-nine Senate meetings, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If none of your senators raise any objections to them, they will be adopted at the next meeting. Dear Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senator benches. I propose that items 1 and 3 to 7 of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on them have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any objection, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Dear Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Rules for the Management of State Property and considering it as a point of the seventh agenda; the second reading of the draft law amending the Law. Education Law and considering it as a point of the 14th agenda; the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Assistance of Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in the territory of that State and the Law on the Education Law and considering it as a point of the 15th agenda; the point: changes in the composition of the Senate committees and consider it as the item on the last agenda. If I do not hear a voice of opposition, I will find that the Senate has accepted the proposals presented. Mr. Marshal Crack.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u2	Mr. Marshal, I object to the inclusion on the agenda of the Law on State Property Management. In fact, it is another attempt to block the merger of Lotus and Orlen in the Senate, an unauthorized attempt, incompatible with the Polish state right. There's a completely untrue vision of this merger here. You do not see, you do not understand, that the creation of a modern multienergy group is an action consistent with the Polish state rations, is an action which they agreed to, first, the Polish government, second, more than 80% Lotus shareholders. This is in line with the European Commission's recommendations. This case has been going on for months and is advanced at many levels: legal, financial, organisational, political. Therefore, the Senate should not take action in this matter contrary to the directions set by the Polish government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u3	Mr. Marshal, thank you for your broad justification for the proposal. Is there an objection? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u4	I object.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u5	Thank you very much. Just so we're clear... [[But I want to say two sentences of justification.]] But is that... one minute, Mr. Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u6	Okay, one minute. I object. The operation in question is incompatible with the Polish state rhyme, especially in the situation of war in Ukraine, Senator Pęk. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u7	Thank you very much. For the record, I would like to explain: Mr. Marshal Pęk, the remaining points are not controversial, so the opposition is only about one thing, right? Since the remaining projects, i.e. the draft law amending the law on education and the draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country and the law on education, do not cause controversy, we put them into order. Before the vote, I would like to remind you that perhaps from the Sejm we will receive a bill extending for another 60 days the payment of allowances for Polish families hosting people from Ukraine. If this gets to the Sejm, it will still be discussed at this meeting. But we'll make a decision when we get the bill. We therefore proceed to the vote on the proposal for a second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property, so-called. Lotus sales law. Who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 Senators voted, 51 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 1]] The point has been entered. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 40th first Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. I already mentioned that extra bill from the Sejm. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. In addition, an annual meeting will be held tomorrow at 3 p.m. in the Senate plenary room, this time online, with the Vice-President of the European Commission responsible for interinstitutional relations and forecasting, Mr Maroš Šefčovič, for which I cordially invite the senators. The meeting will focus on the Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the Commission Work Programme 2022. We proceed to the first item of the agenda: the Humanitarian and Medical Aid Team Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 689, and the report of the Commission In print No 689 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Health and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Ewa Matecka, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Health and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, published in print No 689 A, on the Act on Humanitarian and Medical Aid Team adopted by the Sejm on 7 April 2022. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee on 8 April 2022. Following the review of the Act at its meeting on 26 April 2022, the committees shall submit: The High Senate shall adopt the attached draft resolution. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The purpose of the Act, as described in this justification of the draft law, is to increase the efficiency of the performance of the State's tasks in providing immediate and necessary assistance outside the territory of the Republic of Poland to people in situations of health and life threats by setting up a Humanitarian and Medical Aid Team, i.e. a group of medical specialists and other specialists necessary for humanitarian action and humanitarian support outside the territory of the Republic, by ensuring the preparedness of the necessary staff in the field of training, operational and hardware, and by ensuring efficient logistics, transport and coordination of tasks carried out using own resources as well as resources of other governmental entities. In doing so, the least involved are the equipment, staff and resources of non-governmental organisations. The draft law sets out the tasks, principles and organisation of the Humanitarian-Medical Aid Team, which will act with the President of the Council of Ministers. Funding rules have also been laid down, a 10-year funding period has been set and remuneration rules have been introduced for the members of the team. In addition, the Act also deals with the principles of support and cooperation with other entities, the use of personnel and equipment resources of those entities. It was also stated that the head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers is the entity providing the service of this team and its current functioning. Among the tasks belonging to the Head of KPRM are listed among others. conducting recruitments to the Humanitarian-Medical Aid Team, concluding contracts, drawing up plans for the organisation and operation of the team, organising trainings, national and international exercises. These main tasks of the team are to provide immediate and necessary assistance outside the territory of the Republic of Poland to persons in a state of emergency health risk. The draft law also defines the qualifications of the members of the Humanitarian and Medical Aid Team, who will be selected by free recruitment, and the information about the recruitment will be published on the BIP website, as well as information about the results of this recruitment. The members of this team are doctors, dentists, paramedics, paramedics, nurses, midwives, laboratory diaries and other professionals. It also pointed out in this project that a member of the Humanitarian and Medical Aid Team must demonstrate willingness to undertake tasks anywhere and at any time. A civil law agreement is to be concluded with each of the members qualified for each team, in which duties and remuneration are to be indicated. The agreement will be concluded for 3 years. It is also envisaged that if a member of the team is not involved, the costs incurred for training and personal equipment will have to be reimbursed. The draft law also sets out the remuneration of a member of the Humanitarian and Medical Aid Team. And yes: monthly remuneration for readiness to act at a rate of not less than 25% the average monthly salary in the enterprise sector of the previous quarter, including profit payments, announced by the President of the CSO, and the remuneration for each day of participation in activities Of a thickness of not more than 1 mm, not more than 1 mm, not more than 1 mm, not more than 1 mm, Average monthly wage and salary in enterprise sector. The planned personal status of these teams is about 60 people in several sections, in each section At least 10 people. The proposed law also contains a number of provisions concerning the acquisition, transport, removal outside the territory of the Republic of Poland of medicinal products and medical devices intended exclusively for use outside the territory of the Republic of Poland and for the tasks assigned to this team. There is also talk of the rules for reporting planned exports and there is diversity, the need for consent or not from the Chief Inspector... [[Senator, excuse me, senators' bill, I have an impression, they know...]] I'm just finishing up... [[...the question is what was on the committee.]] Okay, I'm almost done. The maximum expenditure limit is set for 10 years at PLN 167 million. During the discussions in the Committee on Health and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, the head of the NAP, Minister Dworczyk, presented the bill together with its justification. The senators of the two committees indicated the already existing and highly successful and successful other humanitarian organisations, such as the Polish Humanitarian Action or Doctors without Borders, and asked for an explanation of the difference between these already existing organisations and the proposed new organisational form. The need for humanitarian aid was somewhat shared, but concerns were expressed as to the risk of deterioration of access to medical services, in view of the opportunities announced in the proposed Act to make use of staff and equipment resources available to other medicinal entities and planned health reforms. The Senators also expressed concern about the stability of work organisation, e.g. in hospitals where doctors or nurses or rescuers will simultaneously carry out their duties in a humanitarian aid team, already employed, with employment in a given medical entity. Some risks have also been identified, which may arise due to difficulties in fulfilling medical entities' contracts with the NFZ. Questions were asked about plans to secure the health needs of Poles against current staff shortages. The Senators also expressed their concerns about the procedure of supervision, consent and decisions relating to exports outside the Republic of Poland of medicines, including medicines already at risk of lack of access in the country. They also asked about the principles of remuneration at full readiness, as well as during the course of the action. It was also expressed that it was necessary to require Parliament to report annually on the activities of the Humanitarian and Medical Aid Team and to export medicines outside the territory of the Republic of Poland. There have been proposals for involvement for the activities of this team of foreign doctors already residing in the Republic of Poland. It was also asked how the form of preparedness would be expressed, what the commitments would be in readiness and what obligations would be when the action was carried out. A great deal of interest was aroused by the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 monthly remuneration rates for readiness Let me remind you that this is 25% , today you can say that it's 25% per month from approx. PLN 6.6 thousand and per day for activities which are set at 70% from approx. 6.5 thousand PLN, i.e. average salary. Mr Dworczyk, referring to the questions, doubts and problems raised in the discussion, stated that the government was not planning reforms that would limit access to medical services, and that the use of equipment and equipment and staff resources of other entities to the activities of the team would not disorganise the work of these entities. In addition, jointly proposed deletion from the draft law art. 17 found acceptance of the Minister. Following the discussion and hearing of all opinions, the two committees agreed and voted 12 amendments to the draft law tabled to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. Before the senators can ask a question that lasts no longer than a minute, you will allow me to welcome the Minister Michael Dworczyk present here with his team and permanently the current Deputy Minister Waldemar Kraska, who also represents the government side in this respect. Senator Halina Poor signed up to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have a quick question. Namely, whether at the committee's meeting there was a mention of why the law would be in force for just 10 years, and whether, for example. Someone's gonna declare that they're gonna be on standby for 10 years, that it's gonna be the resources that the senator mentioned they were receiving? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u11	Thank you very much. That's what I was talking about. It has been clarified that the planning for 10 years is based on the Public Finance Act, and every time a proposal for such a law is submitted, the maximum amount of expenditure should be guaranteed over a period of 10 years. Of course, there may be differences in individual years. The senator's second question was about a prolonged condition... [[Yeah, if you can declare readiness for 10 years.]] I would ask you to ask the Minister this question. Anyway, there could be a situation that for 10 years... [[Timer signal]] ...we will be faced with a state of preparedness, which will bear a specific financial expenditure of this 25% an average wage. Yeah, that could happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u12	Thank you very much. Let me ask you a question, senator. Was it said at the committee meeting that most people who provide humanitarian and medical assistance do it for the heart, do it without pay, sometimes for reimbursement? Was there any explanation why this privileged group of 60 people would receive a perfectly decent remuneration for the same things that others do for free?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u13	Literally such a question was not, but we tried to get information on what is the difference between already functioning and successful NGOs, e.g. Doctors without Borders and others who actually act out of the need of the heart and one who is offered a salary. The Minister, in response, thought it was a quick reaction and a level of high culpability. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u14	Thank you, Senator. Senator Durlak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u15	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have a question: was there a committee meeting about how many this team is going to be, and what is the budget for these 10 years? This is, I think, a rather important question in the context of not giving in to the impression that all medicines will be exported from our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u17	Yes, the funding information is contained in one of the articles of the submission, which is probably PLN 167 million within 10 years. As for the second part of the question, it is proposed that the recruitment should involve 60 people as a result, as well as the creation of teams of at least 10 people. So we can count on the fact that there will be 6 teams of 10-persons operating within this Humanitarian-Medical Aid Team.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u18	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, can I make some adjustments right now?]] In the discussion, in a moment, yes. When I open the discussion. I'll open the discussion, and then you can... Does Minister Michał Dworczyk wish to speak on the bill? If I did, I'd invite...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's hard to tell. this feeling of desire, but I would like to thank the committee for its substantive discussion and for its unanimous adoption. I would also like to express my hope that today's discussion will also be as substantive as that at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u20	Thank you, Minister. Deputy Minister Waldemar Kraska. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u21	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The idea of the band wasn't born yesterday or in the last few days. Indeed, for many years we have seen such a need, that such a rapid response group, because that is what we need to call it, is very much needed, practically since 2002, when the bus accident, which carried Polish children in Hungary, caused that more than 20 patients, young patients, had to be evacuated to Poland. Also in the years to come... The following year was the year when the accident occurred in Romania, then the accident in Egypt 28 people injured. From Kosovo, from war operations, we evacuated four wounded police officers from Serbia, 47. Also during the COVID pandemic, when the needs were quite specialized, we had to e.g. transport employees of our embassies, but we were also involved in securing the transport of citizens from Afghanistan or in the vaccination of employees, be it the Polish embassy or other embassies. Such a group is very much needed to be ready to act immediately so that it can leave our country immediately or leave our country to help our citizens. I think that this law is very important, that in these situations, when there is a need for such assistance immediately, such assistance should be as quick as possible. I will just remind you of the famous action of last year during Christmas, when Polish drivers in England were stuck at the border crossing point and they had to be tested quickly so that they could return to our country. You know, Christmas is such a very important day for us, so we stood at the height of the task, and we built this group and they flew. So I think that, after all, formalizing this whole legal framework And insurance for those people who are going abroad... This should be regulated legally. And this bill contains all of this. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u22	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. There's no such question... Oh, there it is. Senator Necessary. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question as to whether an increase in the number of such groups is planned. We know that 60 people are involved right now. Are there any other needs planned to increase the number of people in these groups? That's the first question. And second question. Is it expected that the NFZ standards will be relaxed for those hospitals where medical professionals will be involved in such projects? The minister's translation at the Health Committee meeting that it depends on the directors to watch it, etc., is not enough for me. Because if doctors or doctors are to appear in 4 or 6 hours, it may suddenly turn out that the standard is not met in a given hospital. The NFZ will control it and punish the hospital with punishment. In the event of an epidemic, such standards have been suspended. Do you foresee a similar solution to these... [[Timer signal]] ...the solutions we're talking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u24	Thank you. I think Minister Kraska will answer... Are you? [[Minister of the Council of Ministers Michał Dworczyk: The Minister is closer.]] The Minister is closer and more aware of the situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u25	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I think 60 people are enough to start with. This group that will rise will be a rapid response group. These will be individual modules that will be activated if necessary. ♪ For today ♪ Yeah, I think so. There's no need for more of these people. And your concern about whether the NFZ is going to punish or not is, I think, completely unjustified. This really is a very elite group of people who work in different places, not always in hospitals. Well, I think it's such a threat that it's gonna be difficult for citizens to have access to benefits because someone in this group is on a mission, and they're definitely not gonna make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u26	Minister, I have a question for you: how many people do you expect in this group?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u27	Like I said, 60 people. [[60 people.]] Modules of 10 people each.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u28	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the team's interaction with other rescue units. just outside our country. Any technical rescues, specialized? Because medical issues are generally linked to these kinds of threats, and this team is actually only made up of doctors. Will it be considered to extend this team just about the issues, I would call it, technical? Or will there be separate teams that will work together?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u30	Thank you. Who among the ministers will answer? Minister Dworczyk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If I understand the senator's question, it's about working outside the country with other rescue teams. Well, it's natural to coordinate, but at the operational level. There are no records in the bill that would describe it in detail, but there is no need either. Of course, if we are talking about Polish rescue teams. As regards cooperation with entities in the country where rescue or humanitarian action is carried out 'Cause I'll remind you that this team will only operate outside Poland's borders. Of course, such operations are always carried out on the basis of local rules in agreement with the local authorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u32	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to be sure. This law only applies to Polish citizens, right? Giving them that help? [[Minister of the Council of Ministers Michał Dworczyk: No.]] No? [[Minister of the Council of Ministers Michał Dworczyk: No.]] Well, then, you might want to elaborate on that.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u34	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law provides the possibility of helping not only Polish citizens but also citizens of other countries to the most fundamental extent. This is justified even because the families of Polish citizens may have different citizenship. We also allow the possibility of rescue or humanitarian action for citizens of another country. It has happened many times that Poland has helped other countries who have asked us to do so. With regard to this medical dimension, it is worth recalling Slovakia, which during the COVID pandemic asked for help in national testing and such assistance was given to our neighbour in a short time. A number of other humanitarian projects could be cited. Here we are creating a tool that can be used both for our citizens and for the citizens of other countries. It is also important to say, because this thread did not appear in today's discussion, and yesterday at the committee meeting we did not mention to him that this is an extraordinary tool for such aid diplomacy, so to speak. The image of the country can only benefit from such efficient operations. Let me give you an example from the last time. The carrying out of vaccination in NATO headquarters or the vaccination of OSCE missions in Ukraine has not only caused many thanks, but also very positive sentiment and many positive comments in international media just towards Poles who, as doctors, medical rescuers or nurses, performed these activities in an extremely professional and efficient manner.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u36	Thank you, Minister. More questions... [[You're Senator Włosowicz.]] Oh, there's Senator Włosowicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u37	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, how will the transport of these two sections be carried out, both rescue and humanitarian?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u38	In the way it will be necessary at a given time, because these are difficult situations to predict and plan. We usually say this based on the experience of recent years. We've been dealing with air transport, but I can imagine there's going to be places where we're going to have to get there. This is not defined, but the bill provides for the possibility of securing such measures for rescue teams.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u39	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u40	Minister, I have yet to ask what this will look like technically. Unfortunately, sometimes there are bus tragedies, in the first decade of this century there was such a famous tragedy in France, there were over 20 victims. The Polish government, still sacred in memory of Deputy Prime Minister Gosievski, organized medical assistance for the victims. What's it gonna look like technically? I take it you're the head of this team by law, right? Can somebody bring it in, or are you in charge of... Please tell me how this is going to look in a crisis situation, what it's going to look like technically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u41	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u42	Mr. Senator, this particular solution is not in this bill. The decision to launch the team shall be taken by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Head of Team shall also be appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers. The person who will be appointed to this position must demonstrate experience and competence, both in terms of medical and organisational dimensions. That's what the bill says.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u43	Thank you, Minister. Now there's really no more questions. [[Minister of the Council of Ministers Michał Dworczyk: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u44	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I appreciate the very important objective pursued by the authors of the bill we are discussing, but after listening to the voices of all the senators taking part in the meeting of both the Committee on Health and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, I make 2 amendments to the bill submitted to us. The first amendment is an amendment which aims to oblige the Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers to provide the Sejm and the Senate with annual information on the performance of tasks by the team in the previous calendar year by 31 March. The second amendment aims to remove the remuneration for preparedness. I am aware that in Poland there are other humanitarian organisations with the same profile that do not take any remuneration for readiness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u45	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that the Senators of Sweden, Durlak, Gromko, Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Godyla, Dunin, Tyszkiewicz, Gromek, Czelej, Gorgon-Komor and Świlski have submitted their speeches to the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing by Senators Marek Martynowski and Ewa Matecka. [[Voice from the room: Yet...]] Excuse me? Who else? [[More people signed off.]] [[Senator Chybick and Małecka-Libera.]] These are separate conclusions, right? [[That's what Mrs. Ewa Matecka put together.]] [[Senator Matecka's voice was filed, but on behalf of...]] So besides Mrs. Matecka... I would like to inform you that Alice Chybick and Senator Beata Małecka-Libera have filed a request with her. The discussion is closed. Would the ministers still like to speak? No? [[Minister. Member of the Council of Ministers Michał Dworczyk: Just to thank...]] Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, ministers. I therefore inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[Voice from the Chamber: Since the requests have been made...]] Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah, but they were... I'm sorry. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of the second agenda: the Act amending the Act on the National Court Register. The text of the act is contained in print No 684, and the report of the committee In print No 684 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Robert Mammothov, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act amending the Act on the National Court Register is Senate printing No. 684. It was a government bill. The Act introduces provisions allowing automatic transmission through the electronic system of information on registration of a case in registration proceedings and on registration in the National Court Register concerning an entity entered in the register of entrepreneurs or a register of associations, other social and professional organisations, foundations and independent public health establishments. At its meeting on 21 April 2022, the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions unanimously voted to adopt the law without amendment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Legislative Office has not tabled any proposals for amendments, no comments on this law and that the Sejm unanimously supported the draft on 7 April. So that the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions requests the adoption of a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u47	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. There are no such questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Is the minister here? I don't think there's... [[The voice from the room: Oh, here it is.]] Would Minister Marcin Warchoł like to speak on the bill presented? No. Good. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Such questions... Oh, there's a question. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, why don't you give us a little bit of a listen, 'cause maybe the people who are interested in this subject are listening to us, what kind of procedure is going to be here? I mean, it's not just about the authority, but it's about the procedure that's gonna come from a possible warning signal about the company we own, that someone, so to speak, starts typing, digging into it, trying to steal it from us. And second question, so on average related to it, but... There's a register of political parties. Did you think there would be a similar right regarding the batch register, i.e. To give them to those who are included in the register of political parties?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u49	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u50	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, at the moment, entrepreneurs are helpless against attempts to steal companies, often ended, unfortunately, with success. The rightful owner is the last to know that someone else owns this company. This is often the case because these entries are made automatically. References in the National Court Register do not have the tools to verify whether the persons entered on the supervisory board, the management board of the company or the shareholders' meetings are the authentic persons who should be there. Therefore, there are situations where the media has repeatedly reported that only when they try to set up a bank account or e.g. from the bailiff The owner of the company learns that he is no longer the owner. Therefore, for the safety of trading, so that whoever worked for a given company for many years, he and his ancestors, was safe, calm, that this company would not disappear suddenly, that the money would not come out, we created an electronic system, so-called. newsletter on information about any changes in the company. And these changes will be made automatically. You will be able to subscribe to such a newsletter, make a subscription of 50 entities. And any change will be notified to all interested, not only to the owner of the company, but also to each of you will be able to receive such information. This is public information. This change serves the safety of trading, it protects the assets of a company that has often worked for generations. And the procedure will be very simple. There will be 2 information that will be received by everyone interested. The first will be about registering the case. And that will allow law enforcement authorities to be informed, as it were, in the pre-field of fraud, of the planned unlawful act. Today this is not possible, i.e. to register the case in the IT system. The second information will be on entering an entity in the register whose number in the register has been indicated. This procedure, this system will apply to all entities entered in the National Court Register. With regard to political parties, to be honest, we have not considered such changes. Of course we can discuss it, we are ready to discuss it. If such initiatives are notified, such a problem will be presented, then why not, we can discuss. However, this problem that has arisen, we are eliminating. The problems with political parties have not been identified, while the loud media reports have indeed informed us that companies are being stolen. We are solving this problem, which is widely known in society. That's why it's our solution. The system is modern, it comes into force soon, not in about a year or two, but now, right now. We will be ready to modify or expand this system if other actors need it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u51	Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I understand that all entities that are included in the National Court Register, i.e. not only economic operators, companies, but also various types of foundations, NGOs, political parties and other such entities, will be subject to these changes on equal terms, right? So any citizen will be able to say so... Well, the minister mentioned that this is an open register, of course, that's what we know. But even the initiation of some action will be manifested in the form that it can be preventively countered. My question, therefore, is whether, in the ministry's assessment, this will rule out... Well, we've already talked about these companies, but from time to time we hear that there are wild takeovers in the foundations. Yes? That there's a group that's called... then there's a big one, if it's a big one... Have you been monitoring how this affects situations like this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u53	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u54	Yes, sir. This, of course, is, as the senator said, a measure that is supposed to prevent, as it were, from committing a prohibited act in the pre-field, what will happen in the future. It will be possible to report this to the prosecution early enough before attempting to do this kind of theft. Such situations happened by e.g. forgery of documents. There was a forgery of documents, and it turned out that there were people in the shareholders' assembly who were not supposed to be there at all, either there were forged signatures, or there were forged numbers of votes, in these types of corporate bodies. Yeah, there were all kinds of ways. That is why we have found that we cannot present tools that are highly imperfect, because they respond to an event that has already taken place, and money has already come out of the company, to react to such events. So that is, as the senator said, the action which is aimed at preventing the execution of a prohibited act in the far pre-field, informing the prosecution, challenging the decision, which is important, and bringing an appeal in such a way that effective registration of the case does not take place. Two moments: the first concerning the application itself and the second concerning registration. The registration of the case will not take place where the first decision will be effectively contested.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u55	Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u56	High Izbo, I am merely a minister's transfer. These things don't happen now, Mr. Minister doesn't remember it, but in the 1990s there were attempts to intercept political parties, actually the signs of these parties. [[It's true.]] It's true. Now, as you can see, we focus more on money than on party signs. But I would like to thank you for this initiative, this is a very good initiative.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u57	Minister, I'd like confirmation. It's very important to us. That the political party at the moment doesn't want to steal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u58	We are glad that such problems do not occur here. Let's hope they don't happen. [[Thank you very much.]] I'll say it at the end of the day. If they have an account in the system, they will, of course, also be protected. The account in the system is important. Participants in the National Court Register system will be protected. Right now it's about 60 grand... sorry, about 600,000 entities. Yeah, about 600,000 entities have an account like that.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u59	Thank you, Minister, for explaining. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Adam Szejnfeld, Mariusz Gromko, Janusz Pęcherz, Benjamin Godyla, Ryszard Świlski, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Wadim Tyszkiewicz submitted their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law amending the law The text of the Act is contained in print No 685 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 685 A and 685 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On behalf of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, I would like to present a report on the work on the review of the Civil Procedure Code Act 685 in Senate printing. The joint meeting of the 2 committees that examined the draft was held on 20 April. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the substance of the project we are dealing with? The purpose of the Law, amendment of the Civil Procedure Code, is to amend the provisions relating to proceedings for the taking away of a person under parental authority or under the care of a Convention on Civil Aspects of the Abduction of a Child Abroad, drawn up in The Hague and hereinafter referred to as the Hague Convention, consisting in the introduction of a compulsory suspension of the enforcement of a final order of the court ordering the return of the child to a State in which a permanent residence has taken place immediately prior to the violation of the law arising from parental authority or care. Consequently, the Act introduces a regulation which provides that in cases of withdrawal of a person under parental authority or under the care of a person under the Hague Convention at the request of entities such as the Attorney General, the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman, notified to the Court of Second Instance, in this case it is the Court of Appeal in Warsaw, within a period not exceeding 2 weeks from the date of the decision to take back a person under parental authority or who is under the care of the essence, the merit of the project The enforcement of that provision shall be suspended by law. The Act provides that the suspension of enforcement of the said provision shall cease if none of the eligible entities, i.e. the prosecutor, the spokesperson or the Ombudsman, lodges a cassation complaint within 2 months of the date of the decision's enforcement. If a cassation action is brought within that period, the suspension of the enforcement of that provision shall be extended by law until the cassation proceedings have been completed. An entity which has not requested the suspension of enforcement of an order concerning the withdrawal of a person under parental authority or under such care shall be able to withdraw it within 2 months of the date on which the order becomes valid. As a result of the withdrawal of the request for suspension of enforcement of the order to take back a person under parental authority or custody, such a provision will become enforceable. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment also introduces a regulation which provides that the lodging of an emergency complaint referred to in the Law on the Supreme Court, on the removal of a person under parental authority or under the care of a person under the Hague Convention, will by law suspend the enforcement of an order relating to the removal of a person under the parental authority or under the care of the person until the end of the proceedings with that action. At the same time, the Act clarifies that matters under the Hague Convention which were initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Act with a final order to take back a person under parental authority or who is in custody will be subject to the provisions in force. And the last substantive element: the Act provides that, in matters governed by the Convention in which it was brought and not recognised before the date of entry into force of the Act, an emergency complaint shall be suspended by law in respect of the removal of a person under parental authority. The Act is to enter into force 30 days after the date of publication in accordance with the proposal in its records. Ladies and gentlemen, at the committee's meeting it was interesting, sometimes even a lively discussion. You took the floor of Minister Michał Wójcik as a representative of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ombudsman's Office and the Ombudsman's Office. However, as a final result of this discussion, the members of the joint committees adopted a proposal for a law without amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, I, speaking of a lively discussion... During this meeting, we examined various cases. This is an extremely delicate sphere, connected with the exercise of parental rights. And of course, these examples are sometimes examples that specifically refer to our sensitivity. The Minister gave an example of the ruling of one of the courts, if I remember correctly, of the Dutch, where it was referred to the granting of custody and the obligation to give a child to a parent who, at the same time,... I no longer remember whether he was convicted or suspected of engaging in sexual abuse activities of a minor. On the other hand, of course, we have these values related to the implementation of judicial decisions, when the time of their implementation is of course also important. They concern parental rights and responsibilities. Sometimes parents are able to communicate with them after a long lack of communication. But taking all this into account, after this discussion, the committee finally decided to adopt this law without amendment, with the absolute conviction that we are dealing with an extremely important issue, a sensitive issue. But, as I said, the conclusion of the senators and ladies was to adopt this law in the version proposed by the government's representative, but as a solution to an important problem. Technically, this did not find its expression in the vote. One of the members of the joint committee, one of the senators declared that it was not possible to exclude any amendment to the bill from the plenary, but no amendment was formally put to the vote. Therefore, on behalf of the joint committees, I request that the bill be adopted in the proposed form. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u61	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yesterday there was a meeting of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee at which we discussed the bill presented just a moment ago by your senator. So I think I will no longer repeat what is the subject of this law. The family committee has tabled amendments. At the request of Senator Marek Borowski, they were lodged properly Two amendments. Amendment 1: in Article. 1 in point 1 in the amendment order, the words "art." The words "Article 3881'shall be replaced by the words "Article 3'. 3881 and Article 3881 Article 3882 and Article 3882 shall be deleted. 3883, in point 3, in paragraph 4, the words "and Article 4' shall be deleted. 3883. Amendment 2: Article 2: 2. paragraph shall be deleted. 2. Those amendments are intended to remove the regulation which provides that the lodging of an emergency complaint shall suspend the enforcement of the order on the removal of a person under parental authority or in custody until such time as the proceedings against that action are terminated. The point is that this decision should not be prolonged indefinitely, it did not take long for it to be taken as soon as possible. The Commission accepted the amendments, adopted the draft resolution and asked for a resolution on the adoption of the law together with the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u63	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. No questions. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. Minister Michał Wójcik was authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Minister, do you wish to speak on the bill? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u64	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! This is a project, this is a regulation that deals with cross-border issues, cases that are at stake when a child is transported from one country to another without the consent of one parent or without the consent of the court. These matters shall in principle be settled under the Hague Convention. They are difficult matters, because, as I said at the joint committee meeting, these are cases where the criminal, civil, international context often appears, there are dramas. Often, one can say, these are matters of a media dimension, because there are people who live in different countries, not necessarily only between citizens of different countries, because sometimes it is between citizens of our country, only that the child, for example. remains in the territory of another country. A key reform in this area We carried out in 2018. I do not remember the results of the Senate vote, I remember the result of the vote in the Sejm: everyone voted in favour, no one abstained, no one opposed. It was a rare situation, but I think it's a matter of protecting the child's welfare that brings together all the groups. Nobody here has anything more to win, because we're really all trying to protect our children in the best possible way. This bill is a complement to this reform, because we have observed in recent years, that despite the fact that they are submitted by legitimate entities, as Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski said... In addition, thank you to the rapporteur's President, and I very much thank the rapporteur for the substantive, substantive discussion. The point is that the lodging of an emergency appeal is often accompanied by an application for the suspension of a final judgment. So, the court decides whether the child is to return or not, and there are 3 such entities as the attorney general, the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman, and the Ombudsman, who lodges an emergency complaint or a cassation complaint, an emergency appeal, often with a request to suspend the enforcement of such a final order. The whole point of this amendment is that... it is to answer the question, ladies and gentlemen, whether the submission of this proposal should automatically cause that provision not to be implemented. That which has been challenged by an emergency complaint or a cassation complaint. In accordance with today's provisions, the court shall decide on this matter. The court may, optionally, suspend the enforcement of the order and, if it does not suspend it, that case shall continue to be referred to the court and a decision shall be taken on the compulsory removal of the child. Well, you know how it happens, sometimes in traumatic conditions, if the parties can't communicate with each other, which unfortunately happens sometimes. This amendment is based on the fact that if, within two weeks of such a decision being issued, a reservation is made that one of these three entities is considering filing a cassation complaint... If he lodges it within two months, that final judgment cannot be enforced. In the event of an emergency complaint... the lodging of an emergency complaint automatically results in the enforcement of such a final decision being suspended by law. That's the whole point of the amendment. What makes you say that? Well, ladies and gentlemen, if the rightholder lodges an emergency complaint and the child is not in Poland, we had this case; I also had this question at the meeting of the joint Senate committees... What will the Supreme Court do then? Dismiss the proceedings, regardless of the reasons behind this complaint. The court simply dies, that's the natural consequence. Have there been a lot of cases like this in the last five years? There weren't many cases like this. I was quoting the data. This is about 500 requests to order a child back abroad, of which unfinished cases were exactly 85, completed 409, return orders As I understand it, it's about final decisions and executions. In 181 cases, the proceedings were terminated because the parties were lucky enough to agree, and in 104 cases, the request for return was dismissed. All the cassation complaints over the five years since the reform was implemented were 14. 12 of them were accepted by the Supreme Court, identified four cassation actions. In each of these cases, the decision of the Court of Appeal was contested and in each of these cases that decision was repealed. So if there wasn't an emergency, it's probably those four cases. In spite of their well-being, they would be in the territory of another country. As far as these cassation actions are concerned, I would also like to say that 16 applications have been submitted for the suspension of the judgment under appeal and for exceptional actions, of which only two have been taken into account by the court. This is, however, a small percentage of cases in which the court has accepted the position of the person lodging the emergency appeal. And that's the whole point of this amendment: filing an emergency complaint will automatically stop until it's settled. If the holder lodges such an emergency complaint, the child may not be handed over in another State until the proceedings before the Supreme Court have been completed, and in the case of a cassation complaint. Now, if I may, Mr. Marshal, I will refer to an emergency complaint... [[There you go.]] ...i.e. to this amendment, which was presented here. Well, I find it hard to agree with her, because that's because the point of this law is to throw away. Ladies and gentlemen, if we wish to delete an emergency complaint... what will be the consistency of the system? You can... [[Minister, there's no amendment.]] [[There's gonna be an amendment.]] [[Oh, there's gonna be an amendment...]] There was an amendment on the family committee. [[Oh, on the committee. Okay, thank you. There you go.]] The exclusion of this possibility makes it possible in a situation where there is a cassation complaint and cannot be in a situation where there is an emergency complaint. Well, it can't be defended, in my opinion, as to consistency. As regards emergency complaints, all emergency complaints were 7 out of 500 cases over the 5 years, in case 4 were issued, an emergency complaint was taken into account in case 3 of the case. So, if you consider that... because there was a discussion at all about whether an emergency complaint makes sense. We're not discussing it, we're discussing whether it's supposed to automatically stop the execution of a final decision or not. In 3 cases, the judgment was amended in favour of that party, the entity which lodged such an emergency complaint. That's a lot to think about, too. If there is a will, I will quote the facts, in how dramatic situations this has been. It's the courts who decide. Politicians don't decide it, prosecutors don't decide it, courts decide it. In the end, we can discuss whether the functioning of the Polish judiciary is more attractive or less... There has never been a dispute in matters relating to the Hague Convention, also with the judicial community, because the judicial environment for this regulation in 2018 has just been waiting and I have never heard that there have been attacks against this reform. After all, specialized courts have been created, there are specialized judges... We have one of the best systems in Europe today, that is the truth, and there has never been a political dispute here either. That's why I'm appealing to the senator, too. I think Senator Borowski made those amendments. However, to consider the withdrawal of these amendments. I don't know if at this point... well, I guess it's always a possibility. If not, then I will try to convince you that, however, I will also leave an emergency complaint in this amendment. And that's all, Mr. Marshal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u65	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? Mr. Senator... [[Senator Czerwinski.]] Yes, first Senator Jerzy Czerwinski volunteered.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In support of your position as regards not making any amendments, which is, in fact, not excluding an emergency complaint from those effective measures when it comes to child protection, I would ask you to state whether the grounds for a cassation complaint and an emergency complaint are the same. Because you can either apply a cassation complaint or an emergency complaint, and it may be that these conditions do not overlap and it will be effective to stop both tools, of course, to choose one of these 3 competent authorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u67	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u68	Thank you very much. There are other reasons because, in the case of a cassation complaint, in principle, it is a breach of substantive law or procedure, and in the case of an emergency complaint, i.e. under the Supreme Court Act, the need to ensure compliance with the democratic rule of law, the violation of human rights, a gross violation of law, an obvious error in the determination of the court. Those are the conditions. There may not be an emergency complaint lodged on the same grounds on which the cassation complaint was lodged. It's no matter what. On the other hand, it is necessary to keep both tools in the bill, and I am very appealing for this. That doesn't really prolong the proceedings. Because we had this discussion, whether it prolongs these proceedings or not. We are not discussing both of these measures at this point, because they have already been adopted before. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski spoke at the joint committee meeting about the fact that we are not discussing this issue. After all, Senator Borowski was talking about it: let us not discuss it because it is in legal order. The whole discussion is about something else: will the application made by the authorized operator of the vending machine cause the... Because filing a cassation complaint will result in the execution of a final decision, and whether, in the event of an emergency complaint, such a request will cause a suspension or not to cause... That's it. Or optional or mandatory. We want this to be the second solution. But the basics are different...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u69	Thank you, Minister. Senator Stanisław Gogacz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u70	Minister, according to the article. 3881 At the request of one of three entities or three entities, such as the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman, the Attorney General, the execution of the order to take the child away shall be suspended. And each of these entities that I have listed has a different legal basis, they are independent, one entity is not subject to the other entity. Now my question: can something happen that each of these entities makes a demand to cease execution within two weeks, or two entities, or one... and my question... This question is very important in the context of §4. This §4 article. 388 refers to the fact that an entity who has requested a suspension receives a huge power, because this entity which, within two weeks, will request a suspension, not only does it not have to file a cassation complaint, but can withdraw the request for suspension. Please note that if he does this at the beginning of this period of 2 months, at this point the power of these provisions of the Act is reduced by the possibilities that you are talking about now. Here we are handing over the enormous power to the person who will make this request.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u71	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u72	Once again, maybe I'd ask you a question, just specifically because you asked the senator. A few questions, I guess.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u73	I'd like to ask if there's a possibility. In the context of §4 Art. 388, in the event that an entity which has made a request for suspension within two weeks and those two weeks have passed, withdraws from that request to suspend the enforcement of the order on the removal of the person, another entity may take over the suspension. [[Minister of the Council of Ministers Michał Wójcik: Yes.]] But on what grounds? On what grounds?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u74	The answer is yes, absolutely, because filing a cassation complaint in such a case simply destroys the withdrawal of this request. [[In the paragraph... excuse me, Mr. Marshal. The point is, in §4 there's a record saying that...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u75	Mr. Senator... [[...the subject who submitted...]] I understand, Mr. Senator, but this is not a discussion. Therefore, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński asks a question. You can ask the senator an additional question. I'm talking to Senator Gogach. Senator Czerwiński has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Me in terms of this case. Please note the wording of §4. I'd ask you to read it. Indeed, an entity may withdraw its reservation or request that the order not be passed on to the child within 2 months of the date of enforcement. But please note: unless the rightholder has filed a cassation complaint... or an emergency complaint within that time limit. There's no note here, there's no protection here, I'd call it, the other tool, the emergency complaints against this kind of action, let's assume another entity. It's like... This may be rare in practice, but theoretically it is possible. This filing of a cassation complaint or, or either, an emergency complaint should, I would call it, as if to enable action in this case. And here's just a cassation complaint. [[Minister of the Council of Ministers Michał Wójcik: Yes, because it was meant to be...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u77	Thank you. [[Minister. Member of the Council of Ministers Michał Wójcik: Excuse me.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u78	This was supposed to be the case, because this regulation only applies to a cassation complaint in this case. And until he lodges a cassation complaint, he can always take it back. [[Senator Gogacz yet?]] [[No, thank you.]] [[Thank you.]] Because there's no demand. It's not always... I don't know if I was right. Because there's no demand. It is not necessary to request that a final judgment be suspended in the event of an emergency complaint only in the event of a cassation complaint. That's what I said. [[I understand, Minister. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u79	Here you go, question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u80	The question was misquoted. Well, one of the three entities makes a request. We've got two weeks, he's got two weeks to make that demand. Then there is a protective period of 2 months to file a cassation complaint. [[Minister of the Council of Ministers Michał Wójcik: Yes.]] If this entity withdraws, that's okay. But please note that if another entity lodges an emergency complaint, this entity may withdraw this complaint, this protection, end this 2-month protection. I don't know if I'm making myself clear. A cassation complaint and an emergency complaint are treated unfairly here.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u81	Yeah, 'cause there's a whole different basis for folding both. This is... [[Okay, well, maybe it doesn't...]] And temporarily, too. An emergency complaint may be lodged, as provided for in the Law on the Supreme Court, within one year of the decision if a cassation complaint is lodged. And in the case, as a matter of principle, from the first deadline of 5 years after the decision... [[Extraordinary. Extraordinary.]] And that's it... Well, exactly, extraordinary, extraordinary, of course. [[And the Minister says "Cassation."]] It's a different mechanism entirely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u82	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u83	No questions, right? Thank you very much, Mr Marshal, also for all the comments that have been made and for this substantive discussion, especially at the joint committee meeting, but also yesterday, at the family committee meeting. Thank you very much. I hope, however, that we can make it possible for the senator to decide to withdraw his amendments, which would make it a little easier for us to take better care of the welfare of our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u84	Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. To begin with, I think it's a very important explanation: the amendment that I tabled yesterday on behalf of myself and Senator Borowski cannot be withdrawn by only one applicant. The rapporteur may have missed this because yesterday we discussed this subject quite quickly during a long, two-point committee meeting, but it was a joint amendment by Senator Marek Borowski and myself. The Minister and all who appear before me, my predecessors, are right about one thing, and here full agreement: the Hague Convention takes care of the welfare of the child by speeding up the case when the child was exported to another country from his previous place of residence. And then when my parents... It is also true that today, when we have an open Europe, when we are a member of the European Union, parents can live in two different countries, being Poles. But I will say that most of the cases concerning the application of the Hague Convention are when parents are of different nationalities. Not always then knowledge of the law of the place where you lived is fully as it should be, sometimes family situations cause one parent to take a child without realizing that he is kidnapping them, and to take them to his home country. And that's when the drama begins. I know of a case in which a court of law just under the Hague Convention ruled the return of a child to the father of a Dane whose child hardly knew him. And then, Minister, the application of this 2-instance which was interrupted by the possibility of a cassation complaint was fully supported by the entire Lower House of our Parliament. Yes. Because not always every court... And according to this law and earlier, we have actually specialized specific courts to deal with these particularly difficult and very painful for probably all parties to the proceedings, and most for the child, cases. The Court of Appeal in Warsaw is the only court to which a cassation complaint can be lodged and There's a disagreement here. An emergency complaint. The difference in the approach to the issues covered by the Act today is only one. My club thinks the cassation complaint... Absolutely, yes, she should hold even the final judgment of the second instance until the court has settled the cassation action. But not an emergency complaint. I'm not gonna go too far on this subject. I think that for your representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the reasons are obvious, probably for most senators sitting here as well. It is not possible to preserve controversial laws by some laws, which cause us not to exercise the full rights of citizens of the European Union today, because we do not have a National Plan for Reconstruction. That's what it looks like, so... the baby's well-being. Yeah. Amendments that exclude an emergency complaint from further smart protection of children Yeah. And if the High Chamber accepts the amendments tabled, as I say, by two senators, Marek Borowski and Magdalena Kochan, then my club will support the proposed solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u86	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Sweed, Mariusz Gromko, Benjamin Godyla and Wadi Tyszkiewicz submitted their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative still want to speak? No. Thank you very much. In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals, but the committees made different proposals. I ask the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 686 and the report of the committee In print No 686 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a law on amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws, as Mr Marshal said, in print No. 686 A. Although this is not the time to celebrate, reward and award, there has always been a belief in the committee's need for special distinction of all those who work in the field of broadly understood science. And this law concerns a new decoration, a resorting decoration, which was proposed and dedicated to the staff of science, but not only to them, including those who, in short, support this teaching in various ways. The bill didn't raise any controversy. There were 3 proposals for amendments to the Legislative Bureau. The first two proposals were an attempt to clarify and make this project more rigid, and they were not accepted by the ladies and gentlemen of the senators. In turn, the 1st amendment, quite complex, mainly linked to the correct arrangement of references and appeals in the law itself, was adopted by 6 votes in favour, 2 senators were against and 1 abstained. Following the adoption of this amendment, the committee agreed and unanimously 10 senators were in favour, no one was against, no one stopped, we supported this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u88	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? I don't see any calls. The draft law was introduced by Members. Mr Kazimierz Moskal has been authorised to present the position of the applicants. Would the Member like to speak? There's no envoy. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I address you to Minister Włodzimierz Bernacki. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Education and Science Włodzimierz Bernacki: Mr. Marshal, due to the proper unanimity of the members of the committee... Well, it is difficult here to discuss something that is acceptable. Thank you.]] I take it you didn't. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the Minister. No such questions. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u89	By representing the committee, I could not introduce any additional elements. I want my speeches to always be very strict when it comes to such messages. Nevertheless, out of respect to the Legislative Office, I would like to refer to 2 suggestions which were not accepted by the senators at the committee meeting, and to add a little explanation of my practice of giving various decorations, whether they are badges that deserved Polish Culture, whether it is a medal of Gloria Artis. The Legislative Office has proposed that these provisions include, in short, one of the suggested ways of clarifying the worthy storage of decorations. I have to say that while I am in favour of respecting the State Awards, I have found that a decent storage is a very difficult concept to define. This raises the concern that this worthy storage could be controlled in some way, which, from my point of view, would be an extraordinary situation. Therefore, we did not accept this proposal, recognising the need for decent preservation of state awards. And the second point concerns the procedure itself. It is important to remember that distinctions are discretionary. The latter proposal to describe the proposals to be addressed more closely, as well as to add the possibility to complete this request for documentation here, we did not accept that, in general, the applications for decorations are so charged... They are accompanied by specific opinions, additional suggestions, associations and foundations also present their recommendations. So in practice, this is how it works, which is why we did not accept this proposal. But I would like to thank the Legislative Bureau very much, because this detail has translated into an accepted amendment that has actually improved this bill. She's the reason we can sign off on this without any remorse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u90	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators can report... [[No, that was the voice in the discussion.]] Good. [[We're closing the discussion and...]] Okay, okay. I already know how to... I haven't opened the discussion yet. Did I open it? [[No, that was the voice in the discussion.]] Yeah, I get it. We're closing the discussion. The discussion is closed. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Ryszard Świlski, Halina Bieda and Wadi Tyszkiewicz made their speeches to the minutes. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law introducing the Law on Higher Education and Science. The text of the law is contained in print No 687 and the report of the committee In print No 687 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! With regard to this printing, the committee recommends that this law be adopted without any amendments, the 9 senators voted in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. I'll tell you right away, it's the bill we were expecting. It alleviates certain effects of evaluation, leads to extension of the term of doctoral channels, leads to ordering certain rights of doctoral students themselves, as well as solving specific cases, which, as in life, especially during pandemics, could have happened. Thank you very much for this bill, because it actually responds in good time and in good time to the problems that signaled the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u92	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. No such questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Education and Science has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Bernacki like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Włodzimierz Bernacki: I would just like to thank the members of the committee and the President for the debate, for the discussion. And this is where I thank you very much.]] I, too, thank you, Minister. And let's get to the questions. Are there any questions for the Minister? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] No questions. I'm opening a discussion. [[Voice from the room: There is no one.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Maciej Łuczak, Grzegorz Czelej, Mariusz Gromko, Halina Bieda, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Wadim Tyszkiewicz submitted their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Education System and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 691, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 691 A and 691 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, including Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. This is a project. much more complex, much more complicated, but the committee recommends that you adopt this law without any doubt. I, at the committee meeting, suggested that an amendment be tabled, but I will not talk about it as the rapporteur's senator, but I will say it in the debate that I am enlisting in. And what do I want to emphasize about this bill? He's very important because he generally applies to eighth grade exams. It introduces very important deadlines. These terms mean that the eighth grade exams are postponed for obvious reasons. These are also pandemic reasons. It shall clarify and formulate specific requirements for these examinations. It also sets deadlines for local government officials. It is known that self-governments have their responsibilities when it comes to teaching. It regulates issues concerning hybrid teaching, but also certain elements that consist of the process of verifying the knowledge of eighth graders. So we're adapting to modern technological possibilities. There is also clarification of the subjects that are covered by the examination. And it is done according to my judgment correctly. Despite the fact that the bill is very extensive, the senators did not find elements that could raise doubts. We have therefore decided to support the draft law as proposed by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u94	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Janusz Błucherz, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the report of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the law adopted by the Sejm at its fiftieth second meeting on 7 April 2022, which the rapporteur, Senator Zdrojewski, just mentioned. Let me just add that 437 Members voted in favour of this law in the Sejm, 1 against, 18 abstentions. I am not going to develop here everything that you have already said to the Senator rapporteur before me. I'll just say that in the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, although there was no big discussion, the law was not adopted without amendment. This amendment also raised the most controversy during the parliamentary debate. The aim is to delete point 14 of Article. 1. Because I have a moment, I'm the one who's gonna present this article. After the article. 90w the following Article shall be inserted: The following 90x may be established by the Minister responsible for Education and Education in order to implement the education policy of the State. Further: In the event of the establishment of an investment programme, the Minister responsible for Education and Education shall publish a notice in the Public Information Bulletin on its subject page on the establishment of an investment programme and the selection of proposals. Paragraph 1 3: In the communication referred to in paragraph 3. 2 is defined in particular: the subject of the investment programme and the purpose of the investment programme; the entities eligible for participation in the investment programme; the conditions for participation in the investment programme; the procedure for carrying out the selection of the investment programme; the detailed criteria for assessing the applications. Further: The Minister responsible for Education and Education may appoint an investment programme operator and instruct him to organise, carry out recruitment and evaluate the applications referred to in paragraph. 2. The Minister responsible for Education and Education shall provide financial resources for the performance of this task. The amendment proposed to delete point 14 in Article. 1, is consequently linked to the fact that point 2 of Article should also be deleted. 7 and delete Article. 28. This amendment was accepted by the committee by a majority. The committee meeting also raised the possibility for the Minister of Advisory Teams to be appointed and appointed as experts. This has been pointed out by your legislator, who stated in her opinion on the law: "The regulation introduced does not contain provisions specifying the conditions to be met by the members of advisory teams or the appointment as experts. Nor does this regulation specify the mode under which advisory teams could be set up. And here's the point: the solution adopted is concerned that the setting up of advisory teams and experts may be discretionary. Therefore, it seems appropriate to consider the possibility of adopting amendments in order to specify the regulatory requirements to be met by persons appointed in advisory teams and experts, as well as the procedures for the selection of advisory teams. This was made in the discussion, but the amendment in this regard was not accepted by the committee. A resolution was passed with an amendment, which I mentioned at the outset. Mr. Marshal, I ask the High House to adopt the bill, along with these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u96	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. We have two Senators rapporteurs, and I would therefore ask you to address the question to the relevant rapporteur. Senator Halina Poor is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'd like to ask you about this article. 30c to which Article shall be inserted. The 30d you mentioned. Namely, was she at the committee meeting talking about how experts have been ordered so far, how have experts been paid so far? Because here, point 2 as if it defines how the legislator wants to do it right now. But how has it been so far? Because it seems to me that expertise can always be ordered, any employer can do it, and you don't have to write it down in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u98	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u99	Thank you very much. At the committee meeting, there was no mention of what it had looked like so far. There was one thread raised, even because of me, that I had no comments. whether there are no comments on the possibility for the Ministry to set up advisory teams or experts. Anyone can take advantage of that. The problem is whether or not to apply the criteria or whether to apply the criteria at all. The Minister can probably set up, without legal provisions, advisory teams that he needs and pay them according to rules that the Ministry probably applies anyway. And that is the case in every ministry, not just the ministry in question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u100	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u101	Mr. Marshal, I have two questions for Senator Bubbles. First. You have talked extensively about deleting this point about investments, but we have not actually heard why the committee is proposing to delete this entry. The second question is more clear from the senator's last explanation of the experts and their remuneration. According to my knowledge, there are many such experts and many members of various teams in ministries who work socially, so this must also be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u102	Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, there was generally no big discussion about this. We were more focused on what was going on. during the parliamentary debate and in committees in the Sejm. And this has been transferred as if to the Senate debate that we have in general bad experiences in the operation of various types of investment programmes that have been carried out in the last few years in the field of many local investments. This lack of little transparency, as if all the time is stuck in us and prompts other teams and subsequent investment programmes not to set up or not to implement. [[Thank you...]] [[Voice from the room: Another question about the expert.]] [[There you go.]] Oh, the question about the expert. Payback issues. I agree with the senator that regulation can be of various kinds in this area and, of course, experts need not be paid, some are always ready to serve their knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u104	Thank you, Senator. Now Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska asks questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I would also like to ask you about this amendment on investment. We know that this amendment was in the Sejm as if it had been incorporated into a law that had been consulted before, so she was even a snitch who had not been consulted with local authorities. But now I have a question: did Minister Czarnek want to take on himself, he wants to take full responsibility for what these investment programmes will look like in education? Is this supposed to be an extra program in his mind, except for the government that local governments can participate in? Because maybe if it were a double pool of resources that local governments could benefit from And in Minister Czarnek's envelope, and in the government programme's envelope, that extra money. Perhaps that would be a good idea. Unless that money was to be drawn from their government investments and be shared only on the basis that Mr. Black would have... [[Timer signal]] ...decide on the investments where they will be implemented, in which local governments, and of course these funds would be shared only for their own. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]] [[Time, Senator.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u106	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u107	Mrs. Senator, there was no mention of this, and no senator asked exactly if it was supposed to be an extraplot of investment funds, because perhaps... If this were to be the case, as the senator said, it might be another possibility to invest, however, subject to which I have also mentioned here with regard to the Senator's statements, so that it is fully transparent, that everyone knows that they can apply to a given program and possibly know perfectly the criteria on the basis of which his application was either accepted or not.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u108	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Zbigniew Czerwinski a question. [[Voice from the room: Jerzy.]] I'm sorry, Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The report of the education committee contains only an amendment, I would call it a legislative one, at least that is the case at first glance, and your committee, the local government, which, let's face it, is responsible for the education base, for the programmes, etc., for the local governments, for the education base in general... The State is questioning investment programmes I understand that there are some additional measures under these programmes. And you can't explain why you're questioning, because there was something wrong, gray, uncertain. But that's not the only question you're questioning, because the second amendment you're proposing is to remove point 2 from the article. 7, also means that there will be no funding for the costs of renovations and investments related to the purchase of real estate, construction of facilities necessary for schools, institutions... [[Timer signal]] ...the equipment of kindergartens, schools, institutions. In short, the state wants to contribute, and you're defending yourselves against it, you're actually defending the local government. [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] I'll admit I don't understand. Explain that.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u110	Mr. Senator, it's a matter of art. Point 1 (14) is consistently linked to the deletion of subsequent... At the committee meeting it was proposed to remove point 14 from the article. 1, but the legislators analyzed the bill and did so in such a way that the consequence of this amendment and the deletion of point 14 in Article. 1 is the deletion of point 2 in Article. 7 and Article 7 28.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u111	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u112	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshall, High Izbo... Let me disagree with you, because what else is the investment programme referred to in the new, added article. 75a (1) and other tasks, the purchase of real estate, the construction, the equipment of kindergartens, etc., which have nothing to do with investment programmes, at least at first glance. I can understand that you want to be consistent with investment programmes, but in these other 2 points, points 2 and 3, the following article. 75a, which you cross out completely because you're not just crossing out point 1... I'm saying I can't understand it. I'd like to know not about the structural links in the bill, but about the ratio legis. Why don't you want extra money to maintain the educational base? [[Timer signal]] These are state-specific subsidies for local governments.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u113	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u114	Mr. Senator, that was not the discussion, but I can say that this type of benefit, this type of ministry activity, has so far been carried out on the basis of the provisions currently in force. What we're talking about is a consequence... There's a minister who can confirm or deny it. Further deletions resulting from the deletion of point 14 from Article. 1 is the consequence of investment programmes. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u115	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u116	Mr. Senator, I think it may turn out that Senator Czerwiński is right and blocking these amendments is not entirely justified. I would therefore like to ask whether the senator, as rapporteur of the committee, sees here the need to separate these amendments and re-examine them, actually re-analyze them and then separate them. Because there is a reasonable suspicion that this is not necessarily a simple legal consequence.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u117	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u118	Thank you very much, Senator. I can promise one thing now. And so will be the committee meeting after our plenary session, and if the voices of the legislators and what the Ministry will present to me will be in line with the thought that you presented to Senator Czerwiński and presented to the senator, then I can even persuade my fellow senators to either skip these two additional amendments or simply maintain them... [[Voice from the room: Or separate.]] ...or separate, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u119	Thank you very much. You're welcome... Oh, no further questions. I thank the rapporteur very much. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Education and Science has been authorised to represent the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Please, Minister Tomasz Romankowski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u120	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As far as the government is concerned, we support this bill. We care very much... He was built in the walls of our ministry. We very much want this bill to be signed by your President as soon as possible. The main issues concern the implementation of these assumptions, which were already presented last year and concern exams. Of course, there are some elements to say that cause controversy, but in its essence, the resolution of this law concerning the performance of eighth grade exams, starting from next year's high, and the prom exam were articled by the Ministry of Education and Science already last year. This is to say, the materialization of these assumptions that have already been presented. Of course, a matter of substance, which I think is for discussion... And as a government, as the Ministry of Education, we clearly state here that we are in favour of maintaining these 3 exams for the eighth grader and not introducing this fourth additional exam. But I understand... I'm looking at Senator Zdrojewski here because he raised the issue yesterday. This is certainly a substantive discussion, but others How do I say this? The elements in our assessment are not serious issues. The issue that's being raised about the minister's expert teams... Ladies and gentlemen, this is a level playing field between the Minister, the former Minister of Higher Education and Science and the Minister of Education and Science. Since the Minister may appoint experts within the competence of higher education and science, he may appoint advisors, there are similar provisions. So, let me put it this way, there's no sensation in this I wouldn't see. It's a question of some kind of merger that happens all the time. And I have often presented in the High House some sort of solutions to the minister's projects. This is also a solution similar to that of the higher education and science department. Thank you so much for meeting the Senate committee yesterday, because the conversation was very fruitful to say. I understand the arguments put forward, but we do not in any way I'd like to stress it again, Mr. Senator. We do not want to depreciate other teaching subjects, especially those empirical, biological, i.e. geography, physics, chemistry. We support all the Olympics, we support all the projects as a ministry, we also support the social side that popularizes these objects. But we don't see the need to add a fourth exam. And so young people have so far had 3 subjects and we believe that this should remain in this shape. That's our position. But I understand the arguments put forward, because these are the substantive arguments in the discussion, all the more so because this issue, I would say, has been raised many times. And there's never been four exams for an eighth grader. This is, I say, a novelty that was to be introduced, but we are leaving it. If there are any questions, I know there will be a committee meeting, Mr. Marshal. We are, of course, at our disposal. And thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u121	Thank you, Minister. Questions will be asked, because now is the time when the senators can report from a place of no more than a minute of question to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I ask you to ask Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate, I would like to continue with the subject of educational investments. I asked the rapporteur, but this is a question for the Minister. The fact that the Minister of Education is actually taking on these investment tasks means that there will be additional money from which these tasks are to be carried out, whether these investment tasks will be taken out of government programmes and carried out by the Ministry. I want a specific answer right now from the Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: This is a specific answer... Sorry, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u123	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u124	Senator! High Izbo! Dear Marshal, There will be absolutely no transfers between the funds that are under government programmes and those available to the Minister for Education and Science. The Minister of Education and Science has investment resources in the case of higher education, but such legal opportunities do not exist when an investment is needed when the lead authority is unable to implement... It's to say, this merger again. No shifts, no weakness. That's a specific answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u125	Thank you very much. Additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u126	Yes. Mr. Minister, in that case, please tell me... If the Minister has such power of attorney, on what basis and how will they be prepared, how will the money be shared? We don't have any specific rules that the Minister will follow in allocating this money... Where are we gonna find these rules, these criteria? I am asking here, of course, on behalf of all those who will be interested in such investments.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u127	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u128	Senator, I answer: similarly as in the case of higher education, i.e. Same criteria... It's another, I'd say, merger, combining the same competences and practices. As is the case with investment in the higher education and science sector, the same will be true in this case. [[Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: What's that? Specifically.]] But what do you expect me to do? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u129	I ask that the senators and you, Minister, retain the formula which is the formula adopted in the Senate, which means that the question lasts a minute and then there is the answer. And these kind of questions change our discussion... [[Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Sorry, Mr. Marshal...]] ...in something completely different. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u130	I understand, but I do not need to know the rules, which is why I am asking the Minister what the rules will be and how they will be implemented, if these are to be rules similar to those which are in force in the case of higher education. I don't know these rules, which is why I'm asking the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u131	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u132	Mr. Marshal, Senator, High Izbo, I have a proposition. If the senator wishes to obtain a detailed response in writing through your marshal... [[Yes...]] ...we will give such a detailed answer... [[Of course.]] ...as is the case with higher education.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u133	Thank you, Minister. Thank you, Senator. We note that you have committed yourself to a written reply. I ask you to ask Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! Minister! There, in the Minister's speech, there was such a shortcut of thought, but I will not focus on it, but with regard to the last question of the Senator and the order of the Marshal to make it a written reply, I would like to say that it would be much better if this answer were given at the committee's meeting, because this answer could have an impact on the vote on this amendment, and we will get that written reply in writing in time. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether it is possible to give this reply at a committee meeting, which would have a significant impact on the quality of our deliberations and resolutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u135	Thank you very much, Senator, for that question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u136	Thank you very much. We will try at the committee meeting, if that is the will, to respond orally, of course, while at the same time fulfilling the previous commitment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u137	Sure. Thank you very much to the senators and the Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm just a follow-up. Well, maybe not so much the rules for granting these grants are included in this law as the way in which they are taken into account... Namely added the article. 75b instructs the Minister to set out detailed criteria under the Regulation, procedures for granting, clearing, scope of information, settlement of the special subsidy. So it's just going to be in the form of a regulation, it's going to be available to everyone. Provided that the amendment tabled by the local government committee does not enter into force, this amendment also deletes this procedure of the regulation as regards the rules for granting these grants. [[Timer signal]] So it's not just about the fact of giving, it's also about the way of giving and the rules. And now the question to the minister of a completely different nature. Because these investment issues are probably going to have to be clarified at the committee meeting. But explain to the minister if it's just about the issues... [[Mr. Senator, time. Excuse me, sir, but the minute has just passed.]] So let me be clear: is it just about investment programs, or is it about other things, such as real estate shopping, construction, equipment, etc., that is, aid to local governments?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u139	Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u140	Thank you very much. There's one more question you're asking Senator Czerwinski. Later, Senator Zdrojewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u141	Thank you for this brief answer confirming my thinking. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: This is a support mechanism for local government units...]] It's for local governments in general. That's how I understand it. It's not just investment programs. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Yes.]] And my question... No more praising now, Minister. Why only three exams, not four? Me, for example. Technically, I'm In addition to being a senator, a teacher in high school, a teacher in physics, natural sciences, as well as technical and computer science. Explain to me: why don't you want a physical exam? Do we want to create a cheap white labour force Well, also a Catholic, unwavering controversy, unfrilling, or do we want to have a basis for future generations of possible scientists who will be able to develop? ♪ 'Cause it's gotta start ♪ from the beginning; interest in science and nature is born at the end of elementary school. That's just the way it is, at least in my case.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u142	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm sorry to allow this remark, but I so rarely agree with the senator in his questions that I note this fact. And thank you very much for that question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! We don't see that correlation. And we're not in a position to defend the thesis you've made, i.e. on the impact of the examination on the question of interest in these subjects. We believe that there is an interest in natural, empirical subjects, from which there is no exam, i.e. physics, chemistry, and we support all possible forms of increased interest as much as possible. However, even on the senior exam, the student makes a certain selection for a specific university he has chosen and wants to continue to study at the level of higher education. And this argument that comes to me is, first of all, that there are already three exams that have eighth graders, and we give them a fourth mandatory. In the case of Matura we have 3 and we do not see the need to expand it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u144	Thank you very, very... [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask.]] Here's an extra question. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u145	I completely disagree with you, Minister, because this is not just a matter of interest. The point is also that the child of the eighth grader can still be called a child, well, maybe it's young people, early teens. It had an image of the level of the individual objects. And it's also about, for example, The high school teacher, who will receive these certificates and the results of the exams, could clearly determine what, or actually who he is dealing with, what recruitment is, what young people are coming to him. As I say, for me, such an argument that it will be easier, because there will be no third exam... It's not like it's gonna be easy. It's supposed to be effective. Our young people are to stand out from other countries with their level of knowledge. Examing causes natural objects to continue in the first league, not only Polish language, mathematics - I don't underestimate their validity. And foreign languages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u146	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u147	I can't agree with that. First of all, we are studying the state of, as to say, passed on knowledge from individual objects in Poland each year. And secondly, if a teacher in a secondary school actually reached out to a witness... Well, there's an eighth grader's testimony, and we have a note that's been made out there. I have more confidence in teachers and to, I would say, objectivity in issuing grades.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u148	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u149	I have the impression that the result of both these questions and the partial answers is only to increase a certain mess in the reception, in our perception. That's why I'm gonna ask this question to get out of this loop. First of all, we are dealing with the connection between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Science, i.e. the 2 resorts that were responsible for the various institutions. Education was responsible for schools that belong to the local government. In the case of the Ministry of Science, these were universities that belonged to... In terms of financial responsibility, this was resolved in a completely different way, including with regard to experts. The combination of certain elements, some investment solutions and experts in this law, leads to a regulation of certain issues, but does not transfer to education, which is the responsibility of local authorities, those effects which belong to the previous Ministry of Science. Is that really the case, Minister? And does this mean that in this case we are dealing with the assignment of the Minister of Science and Education of competence to point-to-point support for investment in the area of self-government responsibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u150	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u151	Not just self-government. Of course, in an overwhelming majority, as the senator knows perfectly well, the authorities running primary and secondary schools are local self-government units, but it is also growing here all the time to say, the branch of non-self-government education, where parents or NGOs, NGOs, are the leading bodies. Well, even trading companies can run agencies. We are talking about a situation where there is a clear social need. Well, the managing authority is unable to deal with a given investment project, and it is extremely needed. We want the Minister to be able to point-blankly support this host body.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u152	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Janusz Bleacher's question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u153	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will continue with the fourth item, I agree with Senator Czerwinski. I have a question for the Minister. Well, I had a feeling that giving up the fourth subject was related to the fact that we've been dealing with a pandemic and remote teaching in the last two years. I thought it was therefore for the next two years that we give up this fourth object, but what I see now is that we give up the fourth object forever. Am I right or am I wrong? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u154	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! Well, I don't think so. This proposal is on the table all the time to say that. I partly understand these arguments, although we agree rather to maintain the status quo, or 3 objects. If both chambers of parliament decide that we have to introduce four or maybe seven subjects... Well, the decision is in your hands. We recommend and bring to keep what is. We don't reduce anything, we don't eliminate anything, we just leave three items. There's never been four items.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u157	Minister, I still have a question about supporting local governments in terms of the implementation of renovations and investments, the implementation of investment programmes, etc. I have a question: is this money in the budget? Is this about money that... Is this any new money, or are they already in the budget? Where will this money come from for additional investment tasks in local governments? I'm asking about the source of funding.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u158	As far as the specific position in the state budget is concerned, I would be very happy to reply in writing or at the committee meeting. But these are the money at the disposal of the Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u159	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have three questions. I don't know if I can ask them. Maybe I'll start at the end with the senator's question about these investments. We can't just bring this down to the budget of this year. The Minister said that this is about creating a legal option that will be filled with funds that are already in the ministry's possession, e.g. For higher education, for other purposes. But it is also about future years, because if this is not possible in the Act, another budget will not be able to foresee such measures. I'm asking the Minister to comment on whether I understand this correctly. The second case concerns this third exam. Well, I have the impression that we are overly mythical about these exams. I understand what the Minister just said, that we also have a classic certificate, where there are specific grades from the subjects. In this context, I would like to ask the question whether the student... [[Timer signal]] ...as he goes to high school, he presents his school certificate. And if so, is it from last grade or last year's class? This is extremely important. And a third, very short question. Minister Zdrojewski said that the Ministry of Education and Science... that this is a lot. Mr. Senator, the Ministry of Education, Science and Higher Education. Until recently, these were three different entries in the Law on Cannons, it was connected quite recently. We know that science is much more than higher education, that is not the case at all, because there are many higher education institutions that do not have or have very few. There are research institutes...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u161	Mr. Senator, I am extremely pleased to be able to witness a substantive discussion without any... And that's what I'm witnessing. There's still rules of procedure... [[I'm done, Mr. Marshal.]] I am proud that the Senate in which I sit is able to discuss an important matter so honestly, there are still regulations and the question is the question that will last a minute, Mr. Senator. I'm so sorry. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u162	I'm answering. Yes, I agree with the first question and the attempt to answer it. Next year, when we have a state budget, these measures will certainly look completely different, but this is what happens with any other budget item, i.e. there is a kind of planning process, budget implementation and some practice. Now the situation is that we see the need for investment support for a particular educational institution, where there is a huge social need, a lack of capacity, fully justified, from a local government unit or another body running the institution, and we cannot do so, because we have no legal basis to support it, even though the Minister has financial resources that can be transferred at a point, even in a small amount, to these investment purposes, adapting the educational institution concerned. With regard to the issue of evaluations on the eighth grade certificate, this is the assessment from the given subject finishing the stage, i.e. such an assessment, I would say a collective assessment of the level achieved by the student and the note he received for the state of his knowledge at the end of the training phase. The same is true for the last classes of secondary schools, where the certificate contains assessments from the whole stage of the education of the subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u163	Thank you very much, Minister. I see there's no more... [[Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: There he is, there he is, Senator Zdrojewski.]] I'm so sorry. You're still Senator Zdrojewski. I'm so sorry, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u164	I was looking forward to the dot over the dot, and since it didn't show up, I'm gonna ask you a quick question. Is this law accompanied by an opinion that it does not have new financial implications for the state budget?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u165	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u166	Again, because I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u167	Is it not accompanied by the opinion that this amendment does not have new financial implications for the state budget? [[Is there an OSR?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u168	I have to ask the experts. I don't think we do. Right? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Is there an OSR or isn't there?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u169	As I understand it, you're not a minister able to answer that question, so in writing... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: At the committee meeting I am very happy to...]] So, in the committee meeting... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Yes, yes...]] We will accept this formula that the Minister has committed himself to answering this question at the committee meeting, which will still be held... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Yes.]] Senator Poor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u170	Guided by the Minister's reply, I would like to ask the question of what point support means, because I was thinking about it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] On what grounds... What does that mean? There's some kind of system backup, I get it. Exactly. What about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u171	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u172	This is the same question asked by the senator, and of course we can also answer in writing what the minister's support in this part of Higher Education and Science looks like. Similarly, we want to do this at the level of general education, primary and secondary schools. [[I'm asking you to answer that, too.]] Okay, we'll send that information.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u173	Thank you very much. And one more question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u174	To make it a little easier for the Minister... Senator Czerwiński said that in the next paragraph or paragraph of this law there is a provision about the need for a regulation which will regulate the rules on which these funds will be divided. Does the Minister confirm that such a regulation will be issued and that it will respond to the doubts raised here?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u175	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u176	This will be a partial answer, although I would like to answer this question more globally. But, indeed, on the basis of a regulation, in which there will be detailed guidelines... This is what it looks like today in the case of higher education, that for each investment programme is the Minister's regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u177	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. I hope I didn't miss anyone. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Senator Halina Bieda and Senator Tyszkiewicz. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! During these questions and answers, some issues have already been raised which were to be the subject of my speech, but some elements I would like to address. The first concerns the effects of combining various resorts. Unfortunately, it's like this... I am generally in favour of the resorts not changing their names and not being the subject of permanent revolutions, because these actions have certain effects. Not only as far as costs are concerned, but also as regards the need for appropriate regulation. And then it takes a few years, in short, to sort things out. This is the situation we are dealing with in this case. Because the merger of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Science and Higher Education makes 2 systems functioning, based on certain experiences after the merger, uncoherent and some regulations that functioned, for example. with regard to science or higher education, transferred to the level of the former Minister of Education, they simply do not fit there. That's the case with expert teams, even though we have a simple case here. And I'm signing off on this solution... I believe that there is no suspicion here of both intent and possible consequences. But when it comes to investment, it's different. In case of investments it is different and you have to remember that investment in science or investment in higher education is linked to a completely different procedure than investment in favour of e.g. local authorities. regardless of whether schools are run by foundations, private entities, associations or simply by municipalities, powiats, other structures of the local government. And that's what I'm paying attention to. In such a case, when the Minister wants to help the local government to solve a particular problem With the equipment or the addition of the school, remodeling it, he wants to prevent the effects of flooding, fire, etc. whether certain mechanisms should apply after they have occurred. We know very well what the financing of local governments is like at the moment. The thing that's permanently coming back... And here attention to the self-government themselves. We must remember that the financial solutions that have been adopted over the past few years have caused In part, at the request of the self-government That education subsidy is not intended to cover 100% expenditure on education. This element is behind us, i.e. For this reason the revenue of local authorities was increased, and more specifically the participation of e.g. in PIT, so that some revenue provided to local authorities in this system gives an opportunity to cover extra expenditure on education, additional tasks and additional ambitions, additional remuneration of teachers. And I want to draw attention to that. It is important that the educational grant includes a specific intention from the very beginning to cover certain expenditures of local government to conduct education, and this is where the case has spread. But we have to remember these two things. About the fourth item... I will immediately say that of course we can assume that our educational system will go in such a way that there are no exams at all. Well, there are systems in the world that don't have exams. There are no exams for the youngest ones, they are raised in stress-free schools, without such control, checks are soft in nature, they are not formal in nature. Well, that's not the problem. The problem is above all the recognition of specific knowledge and specific competences, as well as specific activities Not just teachers. It's too important. If we have a specific subject, a specific exam, and we look at the world, and we anticipate the situation, then we have to say that such knowledge, which the ecology services, saves the world, improves competences in key areas, in terms of perspective, and that biology and physics are among them... They should be the subject of special treatment. Well, as we have 3 exams, 3 such packages, and the fourth one doesn't exist, it can be born not only to believe, but also to believe that they are less important or less important or less valuable. They're priceless. I want to make this clear. I, looking precisely at the result of not taking into account in this particular distinction of biology, chemistry and physics, geography and cetera, will make an amendment so that they will be included in the list. I will do this first of all in the belief that these activities which were presented by Dr. Karol Dudek-Różycki or Mr. Łukasz Sporny... They are intermediaries, while the source of the opinion is the Jagiellonian University, the University of Wrocław, the Department of Chemistry et cetera, et cetera. They all speak unambiguously: the whole Olympic effort, the effort of educators, the effort related to tasks carried out as out-of-school tasks, can, in short, be slightly postulated. I am aware, and I have conducted a huge number of various rapid consultations, that this mode of making changes, and so late, can be unfortunate. However, for me at the moment, it is very important, first of all, to emphasise the importance of these competences for our citizens, the youngest citizens, and to appreciate all those competences which are related, in short, to the most important, most important elements of economic and social life, in particular as regards the future. I have obtained a declaration outside this room that sooner or later, no matter what the finals of this amendment are, these items will be on the list and will be examination subjects. Is that two years from now or three years from now? I don't know. I'd rather it be as soon as possible. But today it is very important for me, firstly, to consider these subjects particularly important, and secondly, to recognise the efforts of teachers, including scientists, who educate the youngest in very important competences, which I consider to be crucial from my point of view. It is also very important that these youngest citizens can also face their competences by comparing themselves with their peers in other European countries. And you know how important things like physics and chemistry are in Western Europe. I wouldn't want us to get away from them. And one last thing, completely to the end. I am aware that it is important for the Ministry that this bill be placed on the President's signature desk as soon as possible. We agreed with the proposal of the Ministry to move even more than previously planned, the term of exams of eighth graders, so that it would be ahead so that it could be organized et cetera, et cetera. For this reason, this urge to make adjustments should not be too big, because we realize that time is running out. Time is running out, and teachers need that time, they need time for self-government, they need time for parents who support their students. That is why we are looking at this project, generally speaking, kindly. But for this reason, in order to appreciate, as I said, a certain amount of competence, a certain effort of a certain group of educators, this amendment should be included in the protocol and once again be the subject of, in short, consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u179	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor in the debate of Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The first thing I want to say is that I think there's been a misunderstanding here. It may have been due to some argument by the Minister, but speaking here about a certain coherence between the various components that the Minister of Education and Science currently manages is completely confusing. I mean, the fact is that today the Minister of Education and Science has, so to speak, in his care until recently, three different areas from the Law on Departments, namely education, science and higher education. But there is absolutely no need or basis for any harmonisation in these three areas. The best proof of that is the fact... After all, we remember that at least two times in the Ministry of Education and Science was sport. It is hard to imagine that this coherence should be introduced in such diverse areas. There is no doubt that a certain culture of lawmaking and functioning of the resort on Shucha and on Hoża was once the entrance from the Common But these are a little different worlds. And there is always the question: is it good that there is education and higher education in one resort? As if having an impact on these transitions, on these difficult periods, this undoubtedly has its drawbacks and advantages. And that is why I would like to express my opinion here firmly in this respect that talking about the coherence of these areas is an absolute misunderstanding. I understand that it was said on the occasion of the investment, it was said on the occasion of experts. I understand that the Ministry, the Minister and the legislator in the form of the Sejm see certain needs in the area of education, which are fulfilled in the field of science and higher education, and whose deficit is in the area of education. And that's why the proposed records. In particular, with regard to investments, the senator here recalled that certain mechanisms which are in the field of investment, for example, connected with the fact that local governments are the gestor of many investment areas... This also shows that, as far as higher education is concerned, we have other sources of investment which, in turn, do not have schools or education. E.g. the former Operational Programme, the innovative economy, regional operational programmes and many others. So that here these differences and similarities occur. I would rather focus on how much these records, which work well in the field of science or higher education, are needed in education. But talking about coherence is completely unnecessary here. Here the Minister used the wording of such intervention, point or complementary investments. I get it. And I have to say that I most often call from memory 2 such flagship intervention or complementary government programs, which were the subject of a resolution of the Council of Ministers. This is a multi-annual programme for the expansion of the campus of the Jagiellonian University and a multi-annual programme related to the University of Jagiellonian. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań. These are examples. Of course, it was a big show. It may happen that, in relation to these complementary needs, intervention is also possible. All the more so because the attention of Senator Czerwiński was very valuable here, about the fact that it is a regulation and there it is possible to write about all this, about this transparency and about certain principles and conditions. In particular, I must say that what I tried to include in the question, although the marshal here rightly disciplined me... So let's also look further than the year 2022, because this is a chance for additional funds or even a redistribution of funds from these three areas, i.e. from science, higher education and education, to allocate certain resources in this area, which many local government supporters and what is under the care of local governments should welcome with some satisfaction. The second big topic is the issue of this fourth exam. I have to say, I'm a huge natural science enthusiast. I have no doubt that this is primarily a big flywheel of the current development, an innovative economy, but also science and everything we call civilization. Well, I have no doubt about that. I think these are two different issues. On the one hand, it is a matter of appreciating natural objects, and on the other, it is a question of imposing serious obligations on pupils, teachers, directors and everyone, so to speak, the dicasteries involved in this examination. I'd go further than that. I think this is the moment when we came to the wall, when we should make an effort to restore the prestige of the school certificate. Because all of a sudden it turns out that these exams have grown to such a rank that the certificate no longer counts that this final evaluation, which the Minister spoke of, has become irrelevant at all. As for the importance of these objects, we know that appreciating their role can have many different faces. After all, at the moment modern laboratories are needed, appropriate resources are needed, well-educated teachers are needed for this. I have to say that in high school I was lucky that many of my teachers were so-called teachers. industries that were part-time teachers and part-times engaged in modern technologies in various areas of the economy. I think it's a much wider problem. I had the honour of being a member of the Programme Board of the Central Examination Board and the term of office. Her chairman was Professor Adamski, Vice-President was Deputy Minister Anna Radziwiłł, a great teacher. We were then considering all these external exams issues, and today we see the pros and cons of this whole system. That's why I'm not taking sides. I would like to point out that this problem has many faces. It cannot be that everything that is on the external exam is important and prestigious, and the certificate, the school training process and the problem of the school studios are not noticed. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u181	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u182	Thank you very much. Right now, Mr. Marshal, I'm gonna take the floor, because it's just gonna be a little follow-up to the tasks behind me. I would not have done these tasks well if I had not completed this discussion on one important point, one important observation. It is important to remember that in print No. 686 we also appreciated the importance of metrology, science about measurements, about individuals. By the way, we made adjustments in the Act of May 11, 2001, as I recall. In short, we have added to the catalogue of tasks of the President of the Main Office of Measurements, known as the President of the GUM, tasks of a scientific nature. I want to stress this because this is a change that was expected by the environment. This should be recorded in the minutes. Once again, I stress: the President of the Main Office of Measures has received a new task, a new competence, in a sense a new privilege, which is to carry out scientific research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u183	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alicja Chybicka, Aleksander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Maciej Łuczak, Grzegorz Czelej, Mariusz Gromko, Halina Bieda, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Wadim Tyszkiewicz and Janusz Gromek submitted their speeches to the minutes. I would like to inform you that Senators Wadi Tyszkiewicz have submitted legislative proposals... [[Voice from the room: No, Halina Poor.]] I'm sorry, Halina Bieda, Zygmunt Frankiewicz and Janusz Pęcherz and Senator Jazłowiecka. Because they've been reported... The discussion is closed. Would a government representative still like to speak on this issue, or will he wait for the committee meeting? As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the submitted... [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, amendment, because still...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Voice in the discussion.]] Oh, and Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. I'm sorry. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the rules governing the management of state property. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 678, and the committee's report In print No 678 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Gentlemen of Ministers! I present a report by the Legislative Commission and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, print No. 678 S, on the draft law amending the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property. On 31 March, the Senate Marshal sent a draft law to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, and on 26 April this year the committees examined the draft law presented by the applicants at their first reading, amended it and asked for the Senate to adopt a uniform bill annexed to it. The title of this law seems complicated, but the law is not complicated, but it is very important. It concerns an important issue, namely the energy security of Poland. The bill prejudices that 9 months after the Polish Government's return on the basis of art. 4 on consultation, of course in the framework of the Treaty... In this situation for 9 months, when there is a real threat And there's a war going on, a full-fledged war in Ukraine, and this country is the object of the aggression of the neighbouring powers, Russia. It is not possible to make ownership changes, sell shares, shares, rights from shares, companies, companies or parts of those companies or their real estate. The list of strategically important enterprises is in Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 act. And disposal of property The State Treasury, in breach of the prohibition, will result in nullity. The decision will be taken by the President of the Attorney General. This law, this draft law, prevents changes in the ownership structure of the company just of strategic importance for State security when the conditions described in the article may arise. 4 of the North Atlantic Treaty, when this is a threat to territorial integrity, political independence or state security. This situation, not only in the assessment of applicants, but also in the assessment of the government which requested such consultations on 24 February, is taking place. It is clear that the decision to split the Lotus, to break down this good company and to sell it in parts of different entities must cause a serious disturbance in this company, a serious disturbance in the fuel market and also the transformations. Lotus is a company that has been modernised for some 12 years and has also invested public money in it. And a proposal to destroy this company, and it's still going on at this time... This is absolutely unacceptable. The decision was made in a completely different geopolitical situation, when there was no ongoing conflict, when there was stability when there was peace. And right now, since February 24th, the situation has been completely different. During the discussion of the draft law, there were votes in favour of this project, and there were voices that this project was inappropriate and even harmful. Minister Małecki stated that he was against this law, and that he had already sent such information in writing. In fact, other resorts also indicated that this law is not entirely in line with the intentions of these resorts, some have not submitted comments or have stated that it is not in their competence, i.e. they have avoided answers. The Minister for National Defence has not submitted comments on the draft law and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has informed that the proposed amendments do not fall within the scope of the cases in question. During the committee meeting we listened to a legal analysis of 2 employees, scientists from the University of Gdańsk, who supported these changes. The two players, the Pomerania Employers and the Business Centre Club, supported these changes. There was a rather active discussion in which one of the directors of the State Treasury companies revealed that the Ministry did not in principle know the content of the contracts, and this was in relation to the question under which the law under which the country would settle disputes, e.g. between Orlen and Aramco. Some senators were against this change, they emphasized in general that this operation, which is being carried out or to be carried out, is compatible with the interests of Poland. Me and the senators of the applicant consider the opposite. That it is incompatible that it is dangerous. Former Minister of Economy, under the rule of Law and Justice, and head of PGNiG, who reported quite closely on the link between one of the entities for which Lotus, the Hungarian company MOL, is to be sold to Russian entities, Gazprom. For Gazprom this entity built or builds the Hungarian part of Turkish Stream, i.e. bypassing Ukraine from the south. It was to be built earlier by Nabucco, but after the European Union's opposition, only the name changed... the route of this pipeline. In the north, Russia built a northern bypass, through the Baltic Sea, Ukraine and Poland. In the south, Russia is under construction. By the end of the day, it's basically only the Austrian Turkish Stream section or bypass Ukraine from the south. MOL, because this is the Hungarian company which is under political control, which is clear, builds or builds a Turkish Stream section in its territory and builds 2 interconnectors for this pipeline, i.e. border crossings: in the south between Serbia and Hungary, in the north and between Hungary and Austria. This episode is supposed to end in an Austrian gas hub in Baumgarten. There is also an important and additional thing: by selling MOL to us, we let a company into our territory whose relationships with Russian companies, especially gas companies, but also others, are very close. And these are relationships that don't exist from now on. Three weeks before Russia's attack on Ukraine, Prime Minister Orbán, visiting President Putin, negotiated And he's negotiated it. The additional volumes of Russian gas to be flown by this pipeline, certainly at a cheaper price. This situation has led us to take this initiative. And we hope that this bill may be part of the withdrawal from the face by the Polish government from this bad, fatal transaction for Poland. That's where I want to end... Let me just say, last but not least, that things have changed. I understand that this was a decision that could have been made. Although I absolutely don't accept it. When there was no war, there was no danger, which also concerns our fuels, our gas. But we see what's happening. And we see who's supporting Putin and who's against him. Surely among these contractors is a company that supports Russian and political solutions, and economics. And I will add, at the end, that today in the Seym there was a law on gasport in Świnoujście. As usual, there's something else in there. There was an agreement to take PGNiG by Orlen. So we have the next step, the next step in the same direction. It's in the wrong direction. And Lotus, and PGNiG are good companies that should not be destroyed for some fantasy A fantasy that is portrayed as building some great... In my speech, I will tell you what the proportions between this huge group of ours and the companies in the European Union are. You'll see that this information is just propaganda. I don't know why those decisions are meant to be made. Of course, they are not taken at Orlen's level, these are decisions that are made at a higher political level, I suspect at the highest political level. Unfortunately, we are going in the direction in which Hungary is going. There all oil and gas contracts are negotiated by the Hungarian Government, including with the Russian Government and with the President, and companies supposedly independent are only designated to sign these contracts. This is the situation that has already been, and they have returned to it in Hungary. And I fear we are witnessing a return to the same solutions in Poland. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u185	Thank you very much to the Marshal of the rapporteur. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I'll just remind you that the time to ask these questions is a minute. And I'm gonna keep an eye on it. Is there anyone... You're welcome, Senator locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr Marshal, rapporteur and applicant! Recently we accepted, due to the difficult external situation of Poland, a number of social laws were about benefits for Ukrainians, also about matters concerning military and equipment supply. The common denominator of all these laws was to solve the government's hands, i.e. to give the government greater opportunities so that in emergency situations, in crisis situations, it could apply exactly what in peace or in peace, security is, you can say, prohibited. Your proposal goes in a completely opposite direction. Your bill proposal is to bind the government of hands because the state here does not talk about Lotus, but creates a rule In an emergency situation. In short, to some extent, it is to sabotage the government's efforts to deal with the difficult situation. [[Timer signal]] Aren't you afraid of the charge that this draft law is preparing such restrictions for the government and binding its hands?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u187	Thank you, Senator. You've been out of time by ten seconds. [[The next question will be shorter.]] I ask the senator, the marshal, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u188	Mr. Senator, on the contrary. This bill gives you the opportunity to get out of the wrong decision face-to-face. This is also the role of us senators, and this is the role of Members. I'm not commenting on this sabotage, Senator, because... [[He's making it harder...]] Yeah, yeah. If you believe that the bill, which is being processed by the Senate of Poland, is sabotage, then I do not want to discuss it with you. You shouldn't say that. [[That was a question.]] Mr. Senator, well...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u189	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Sławomir Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u190	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I would like to ask you about yesterday's meeting of the joint committees that debated this project. Has there been a thread resulting from such a time coincidence: President Obajtek announced in mid-January this year. the decision, inter alia, about the sale to MOL 417 Lotus petrol stations, but we do know And we talked about it in this room too. The Polish government knew about November, and certainly in January, that Russia's aggression on Ukraine was obvious, and that many countries had already been preparing for this situation? Was this case mentioned that President Obajtek, who manages such a strategic state estate, sells Lotus stations to an aggressor friend?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u191	Mr. Senator, that wasn't the topic at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u192	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Martynowski a question. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal...]] [[As far as I remember, because of course I don't remember everything.]] Excuse me, question... [[But I don't think there was such a thread, although I repeat...]] [[Does the marshal think it's right that the decision taken in January...]] But if you'll excuse me, I have the impression that Senator Rybicki asked a question, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz answered it, I, according to the regulations, asked for another question from Senator Martynowski, but something is happening that does not reflect my request. So I would very much ask Senator Martynowski to ask a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, as a representative of the applicants, I understand you agree with the justification of this bill. If so, I'd like to ask... Here, in the justification, is this sentence: the merger of PKN Orlen with the Lotus Group will destabilize the Polish fuel market. If you could explain what this destabilization would be all about... I understand that such merger strengthens the energy security of Poland, not destabilises the market. If you could explain it to me...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u194	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u195	I agree with that in all its lengths, Mr. Senator. It's not just a merger. If it were a merger, a simple merger, then it could be discussed, but this is a decision that will first lead to the division of Lotos, such a division into pieces, and then to the sale of this company. Her refinery is still to be managed by two entities, Mr. Senator, independent of each other, Aramco and Orlen. I'll tell you that the difference in the potential of a company that's going to be based on Orlen, and Aramco is going to be 1:200, that's the difference in potential. But I'm not going to go into that detail right now. Yes, any such change must cause perturbation and management, and production, and such a significant change And that's a huge change for Lotus, that's the division and sale of individual companies, including wholesale fuel markets, as well as fuel warehouses. It must reduce the level of functioning of what is left. So that I absolutely disagree with you, I disagree with your thesis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, two questions to start with. This initiative is, I would say, very similar to one of the amendments tabled in the Sejm. This amendment is gone, it has not been passed. It was an amendment. The Homeland Defense Act. The question is, why are you pushing the same rule twice? After all, it will go to the Sejm and it is unlikely that the vote will be different in the Sejm. That vote I'm talking about earlier was relatively recent. What's really going on here? Is it about achieving an effect, or is it just about chasing a bunny?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u198	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u199	Mr. Senator, it's about achieving an effect. We believe that this decision is very harmful and that it will have consequences for Poland and our region for many years.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u200	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Locksmith's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr Marshal, rapporteur! The content of the bill clearly shows that the problem is not the merger itself, but the condition imposed by the European Commission regarding the resale of part of the company to foreign entities. Is the Polish Government, therefore, a legitimate addressee of this law? Wouldn't it be better for the European Union to move away from certain economic dogmas that it maintains and which have just led to the kind of confusion that we find ourselves in?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u202	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u203	Mr Senator, the European Union has set the conditions for this merger... [[In the time of peace, there were these conditions...]] Mr. Senator, Poland has negotiated such conditions, and under such conditions it was necessary to withdraw from this, not to go further. If you asked who chose these companies, you could say that they were chosen by Orlen, these companies to meet these conditions, and not by the European Union. But you had to refuse or negotiate until then, or withdraw from that decision. I thought... I thought it would be so, but it turned out that someone's will there is stronger than economic software, the functioning of a company that functioned well, connected with its entities, also in the south, but it turned out that I was wrong. I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u204	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Martynowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u205	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, I understand, after this answer, that you believe that after the merger of Orlen with Lotus, Orlen's profits will probably be reduced. I know that in 2021 Orlen's profit was record because it was 11 billion PLN. Could you give us an approximation of how much was Orlen's profit under the Civic Platform's rule for a total of eight years? [[Voice from the hall: This was not at the committee meeting.]] [[How much fuel did it cost at that time?]] As a resident of Gdansk, I think you're definitely interested in Orlen and Lotus.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u206	Mr. Senator... No, no, the committee didn't do that. [[Yes, sir. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u207	Thank you very much. You're welcome. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u208	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, tell me or correct my information. According to my information, the entire merger is being negotiated by the President of Orlen, because Orlen is the leading entity here in this merger, and the negotiations are conducted by the President of Orlen, Mr. Daniel Obajtek. Has anything changed? Because according to my information, Mr. Daniel Obajtek does not have access to classified information, he did not pass the so-called. centrifuges. Do you think a man who doesn't have access to classified information... [[It wasn't at the committee meeting, Senator.]] ...can be responsible for the merger of two giant entities, Orlen and Lotus? Unless something's changed. Orlen's president, according to my information, has no access to classified information. Can such a man conduct such negotiations concerning practically a merger of the 30th anniversary? Because there wasn't one in the history of a merger like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u209	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u210	Mr. Senator, the president of Orlen and Orlen is not leading here in these decisions, but he is the only one. Of course, he is responsible for all decisions, whether he makes those decisions on his own or someone with him or behind him, or whether he suggests such decisions to him. I don't know if he has access to inside information or classified information... I'm sure he should have a secret company as CEO. There was a question at the committee meeting that was asked by the minister. The minister, I hope, will be able to answer them.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u211	Thank you very much. Here you go... sekundeczka, because there are a few senators. First things first, I mean. according to the order of applications. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, I have one specific question for you. The law adds the following words as a result of the amendment: "owned by these real estate companies." The point was, there's gonna be a blockage for the sale as well. It's not just a sale, it's also a donation, a transfer to public property. In turn, the transfer of property of the State Treasury is discussed. So what kind of real estate is it: is it the property of the State Treasury, or is it the property owned by the companies? I'm quoting lips. 1 and paragraph 1. 2. Next thing you know... True, this is only really about the blockade of Orlen's merger with Lotus, but you are using a general rule that applies to 30 companies. [[Timer signal]] There are companies like Poczta Polska... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] ...Athletic Totalizator... [[I'm so sorry.]] Indeed, this law, Mr. Marshal, can hold back the possibility of selling every property of Polish Post, Totalizator, every parcel at a gas station, and even donations for public purposes for 9 months. Is that what this is about?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u213	Mr. Senator, you've exceeded half the time you had to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u214	The senator's right. There's still, I think, Brühl Palace. [[Yes, sir.]] It is, yeah. It's in a relationship... yeah. All those mentioned... Of course, this Brühl Palace was added recently. I don't know why he was added to that list. Yes, all companies, all entities which are included in this Article. 13, do not be disposed of for 9 months. This also applies to real estate. It's possible that part of... Yeah, especially the gas stations. They're probably not identified as entities, because they're real estate. They're shared. Some get 180 or 200 dozen, others get a little less. Yes. And that's the way it sounds.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u216	Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, at the committee's meeting, we were presented with a legal opinion for this bill, prepared by Professor Joanna Kruczalak-Jankowska and Dr. Tomasz Snarski. Does the Marshal agree with this opinion that the draft legislative initiative is de facto pursuing the legislative objective of 2016 of the rules for the management of state property, which introduced the procedure for protecting not shares and sovereign assets? Do you agree that the draft you are rapporteur meets, as we read in this opinion, all the formal conditions relating to the correct legislative process? And do you agree that this project responds to existing economic, social and legal concerns regarding the merger of PKN Orlen and the Lotus Group? And... [[Timer signal]] [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] ...that it's still possible... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] ...to make other decisions in the future?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u217	I fully agree with this legal opinion. And yes, after nine months, you can get back to the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u218	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Sławomir Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u219	Thank you. Mr. Senator, as a senator from Pomerania, I can say that in the opinion of many Pomerania residents, publicists, the decision to take Lotus by Orlen is the reaction of the rule of law and justice, which is not, to say the least, popularity in Pomerania. Was there a discussion at the committee that the arguments of the government and President Obajtka were being built, that a powerful entity would compete with the best in Europe and in the world, megalomaniac arguments, of course, as you have already mentioned, because the proportions are simply not serious with regard to these most serious companies... Did such a motive arise during the debate in the committee, referring to the proper Putinisation or Orbanisation of this area, consisting in building industrial conglomerates... [[Timer signal]] [[Time, time, Mr. Senator.]] ...which deal not only with the substantive area of their interest or subject matter, but also with publishing, political, et cetera activities?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u220	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u221	No, this element was not the subject of consideration by the committee. But in fact, you're right, Senator. Orlen bought the local press, Traffic, etc. And I know he was also trying on TV stations. But it wasn't... Of course, one can wonder, speculate what is next and why this merger, what it is meant to serve. Reinforced Orlen and destroyed Lotus? 'Cause that's just what it looks like. But we didn't discuss that at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u222	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr Marshal, rapporteur! The possible adoption of this amendment to the Act will result in the beneficiaries of this decision and those who lose in this decision. And we're talking big money. In such situations there are different pressure groups, even lobbying groups. I will accept with full confidence the Marshal's declaration, if you assure me that there is no such influence on this project. And the reason for the question is that Senator Kwiatkowski, the chairman of the committee, didn't say the usual formula.Are there lobbying companies in the room? [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] ...and then different people spoke. So that I would like to be sure about that.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u224	You're welcome, Senator, to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u225	Mr. Senator, such a question was raised at the committee meeting. So the question is, whose business is it? The Minister was therefore obliged to provide information on sponsorship by both of these companies, Lotos and Orlen, from the beginning to the end, especially during these 2 periods. I'm talking about political periods. And I admire the senator in the precision of asking questions. Meaning what? You want me to hit my chest? Is that what you want me to do? A statement that I don't have the benefits of this bill? If that's what you want me to do, I'm telling you, I have no advantage. And I hope you don't have any benefits either.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u226	Thank you very much...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u227	Ad vocem, Mr. Marshal. I've been replaced, I've been approached, Mr. Marshal. I just want to send you back to the question I asked, because I think it was unfairly taken as going further than it was going.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u228	Mr. Senator, if you had any such comments at the committee hearing, you should report them to the committee meeting... [[I'm asking you to...]] ...and ask for an explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u229	Since the name was mentioned by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, in this extraordinary mode I ask him to speak, or rather I allow him to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u230	Do you share senator locksmith's concerns? Because there was a government delegation and a long-term president of PGNiG and a minister of economy in the government of Jarosław Kaczyński in the hall outside the committee. Do you share the concern that one of them might represent some lobbying business, I don't know, Russian or otherwise? 'Cause I understand that's what you were following, Senator, asking that thoughtful question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u231	Thank you very much. Please. That was even a question, not a corrigendum, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u232	I do not share these concerns, but I share the concern that the Hungarian MOL represents Russian interests in this part of Europe.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u233	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Gogach's question. I'm sorry we didn't see you earlier, sir, but you're just sitting on such a corner that Senator Czerwiński sat down so that it's much more convenient to capture his requests for speaking. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u234	Mr Marshal, as the initiative concerns 30 companies of the Treasury, I would like to ask you something. Since we're just discussing Lotus and Orlena, about their possible merger, I'd like to ask if, in connection with this... Well, as far as the economic analyses concerning these two companies are concerned, they were carried out. Even the conference in Gdansk was held, organized by BCC, NOT for the liquidation of Lotus! But please tell me: have these other 28 entities also been so analysed from the economic point of view that this could constitute a threat in the context of Article. The 4th North Atlantic Treaty? If there's a consultation going on... In the case of these two companies alone, the merger may threaten or, if appropriate, the merger of other companies will endanger safety in the context of the Article. The 4th North Atlantic Treaty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u235	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u236	Mr. Senator, there are not only these two companies, but also PGNiG, whose acquisition by Orlen is already under way. I was talking about the fact that today the bill was in the Seym, it is not yet in the Senate, on the occasion of a very important, acceptable case, concerning the increase of the capacity, investment in the gas terminal in Świnoujście. President Obajtek has a huge appetite: he bought a movement, as I said, bought newspapers, local press... [[Voice from the room: Wrong...]] Well, bad for some, good for others. I don't know if he's going to make the so-called. acquisitions from the list of other important entities. You can see it's shoving in different directions. I don't know. We're protecting ourselves. [[Voice from the room: Is that bad?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u237	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Martynowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u238	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Marshal, I understand that as rapporteur you did not want to answer my question, because such a question did not arise during the committee meeting, but I think that as an applicant you should respond to this, and I think you are prepared to answer. But if you didn't want me to say it, for eight years of government, the Orlen Platform's profit was PLN 2 billion 900 thousand. Now, here's the question. You spoke about the fact that for 9 months you cannot sell shares of companies of the Treasury, this is the provision in this bill. Why for nine months, if you could explain to me... What's the deadline?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u239	This is about the end of this year. I believe that this conflict east of our borders, the issue of this conflict at the end of this year will be obsolete, Ukraine will defeat Russia and we will be in a different place at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u240	Thank you very much. Please, now Senator Rafał Ambrozik is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u241	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, quote: "There is no ideological reason to speak categorically to investors from any country, including Russia, Donald Tusk. I would like to ask why PO-PSL wanted to sell Lotus to the Russian side, and I would like to ask about the structure of the Hungarian shareholder MOL. You're suggesting that shareholders are mostly Russians.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u242	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u243	No, Mr. Senator, this isn't about MOL ownership. The point is, MOL works organically with Gazprom. [[Mr. Marshal, but...]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator...]] [[...the PO-PSL government wanted to sell the Russians a Polish company.]] Okay, but you asked two questions, and I answered your second question. And as for the first one, I want to get you out of the way. This is the thesis repeated by your environment: yes, he wanted to sell Russia. Sold it? Privatized? What? Three attempts have been made to merge with Lotus or to sell Lotus, and at no time has it succeeded and governments have withdrawn from it. The first attempt was for the first PiS, the second attempt was for the Platforms, and the third one is now, for the PiS, this is the third attempt. These two attempts were also abandoned because there was resistance of Members and Senators from Pomerania, all opposed, including those who were in the government coalition. And now it's different. It's different now. Local PiS activists and senators... No, senators don't, MPs. They support it. They support it as they say, perhaps it is necessary, or maybe on some other basis. After all, the Platform has not decided for 7 or 8 years to cast these companies of the State Treasury, only PiS decides. Maybe this has something to do with it, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u244	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Mr. Frost's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u245	Mr. Marshal, this process that is today, this is not any privatisation, this is consolidation. It's just for the record. Because we don't privatize whether the government privatizes Lotus, just Orlen, a company of the Treasury, takes over another company of the Treasury. But, of course, as a result of the European Commission's actions, we had to re-sell some assets. And the very cool idea of President Obajtek, who decided not to sell the Lotus station, but to trade it for other stations in other markets where Orlen operates... But that's by the way. And the question is one thing. The attempt to privatize was under the rule of the Civic Platform. And there was a famous conference by Prime Minister Donald Tusk who said... [[Timer signal]] ...not just when it comes to privatisation... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] ...that he doesn't see any obstacles for the Russians to buy. What was your position then?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u246	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u247	Negative. And I think that's also why my position was negative, that it didn't happen at all. I mean, as far as the Russians are concerned, it was a question and there was a general answer. And there was no Russian motion at all, Mr. Senator. It wasn't. [[Negotiation was.]] You know better than I do. Good. You're gonna be here, so you can talk about it. I say what I know. Is this consolidation? You know, if it was a relationship between two companies or even a lotus takeover by Orlen, it would certainly be a different situation. Here is the division of Lotus, which is a very good and modern company, much more modern than Orlen. That's where the big money was invested. If you're having second thoughts about whether the exchange is privatisation... Well, another company, which is technically not a state company, is taking over these stations, right? Hungarian MOL. I say, technically, it is not state-owned, but, of course, decisions concerning MOL are definitely taken in Prime Minister Orbán's office. And 1/3... sorry, exactly 30% of the refinery, the heart of this company. Because the heart is the refinery, production is to be sold to Saudi Aramco and other parts of the company to Unimot, etc. So I'm telling you, this is privatisation. And if you don't want to call it privatization... I don't know why you hate that word. Well, you have to call things real, call things what it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u248	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Martynowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u249	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, first a brief correction. In 2006 the Commission PiS was pursuing a merger, which is the connection between Lotus and Orlen. And you wanted to sell Lotus to the Russians under your rule. There's a difference. And it's huge. Now, here's my question. In the explanatory memorandum, we can read that urgent measures must be taken to protect and secure companies in the period of the ongoing war in Ukraine caused by the Russian Federation. Mr. Marshal, in 2008, when there was a war in Georgia, did you also submit such projects or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u250	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u251	Mr. Senator, of course I can say that this wasn't at the committee meeting... [[But as an applicant, you could answer.]] ...that it wasn't at the committee meeting. You were at the committee meeting, and you know what was said. But let me tell you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...that it was... Yeah, yeah. What you call selling in Tusk's day was an attempt to merge. There were three attempts to merge. There was no attempt to sell. And this is the third attempt to connect... i.e. including Lotus in Orlen. It's been blocked twice. And that's where I'm gonna end. [[Thank you...]] Of course I know the details. I know the details, but I'm not gonna reveal it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u252	Thank you very much. I just want to remind you that no one has any doubts, and I read it clearly at the beginning: Mr Borusewicz is also acting as rapporteur for the committee and as a representative of the applicants' senators. It is therefore not inappropriate to ask him about things that concern the proposal, even if they were not discussed at the committee meeting. [[Of course. That's why we're asking.]] But it's kind of about everyone. So we know exactly what role we're in here. I'm trying to keep track of these things. And now I ask you to ask Senator Martynowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u253	Mr. Marshal, I haven't gotten an answer to my question. Were you trying to make this kind of decision, as it is today, after the war in Georgia, when Russia invaded Georgia, during the governments, in 2008, after the war in Georgia? Earlier, a few weeks ago, you wanted to make a resolution on this, you failed, now there's a bill... Were such projects also in the hands of governments?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u254	Russia's war with Georgia, Russia's attack on Georgia, did not coincide with such concepts in time. If there was a war in Georgia on such a scale as now in Ukraine, I would also think that we should not mess with this type of company.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, I wonder why 80% of the lotus crew voted for this merger. Or is it that they know more than the gentlemen who signed the project? Maybe there is. as I read here that 30 refineries have been closed in Europe since 2008, and that these consolidation phenomena are typical of all countries, say, the European Union? So it's just that things go in one direction, i.e. there is no division, but consolidation. And you want to stand up against a process that in fact strengthens both actors.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u257	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u258	Mr. Senator, those 30 refineries that went bankrupt, that's half-truth. They didn't go bankrupt. They were mostly taken over by other entities. Is consolidation bad or good? Well, in this case, she's upset because two companies don't consolidate, but one company destroys itself before consolidation, splits. And that's the problem. [[I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, because I didn't get the answer, which is... maybe someone else will be able to answer that question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u259	Mr. Senator, now I don't know how you speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u260	I just want to ask your marshal, because it's all about the fact that MOL's acquisition of certain shares is wrong all the time. But it was us that the European Union forced. What are you guys... [[That's not true.]] ...they made it... [[That's not true!]] ...wasn't there a takeover? Well, you have such good deals in this European Union... [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u261	Thank you, Senator, for the next question. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u262	Mr. Senator, I could say, you have such good relations with Hungary, and that's why MOL is taking over, right? But that's not what I want to say. The government... Let me rephrase that. Orlen negotiated with the European Union. Was the Polish government involved? I don't know. Should he take part in such a situation? Should he use his influence in this matter? Yes. And it is not the European Union that has ordered us to sell or sell MOL, to tell, well, suppose, to be exact, these gas stations, only President Obejtek chose this company. And that was the next mistake.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u263	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Mr. Frost's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u264	Mr. Marshal, I have this question: do you know what the State Treasury is doing in Lotus today? [[Yeah, I know.]] How much? [[Over 50%.]] Not much more than 50%. [[Yeah, 53%.]] In 2005 the coalition of SLD and PSL privatized Lotus via the stock exchange in June. Was anyone against it at the time? You were against it then, Mr. Marshal? [[No, I wasn't against it.]] Exactly. If today... [[Because the Poles took advantage of it.]] If we are forced by the European Commission today, and you can ask your fellow Members of the European Parliament, because this is the implementation of the European Commission's decision... [[That's not true!]] And we're selling 30% of Aramco's refinery, and I'm asking if we still have control of this entity or not. I think it's bigger than today's Lotus Group, because here we have only 50 percent of the shares, and in the refinery itself, we'll control 70% of the shares by Orlen. That's one thing. And secondly, one element is Aramco's guarantee of oil supplies. Do you think that if we introduce an investor who is also a supplier of oil, that's not... [[Timer signal]] ...to guarantee energy security for our country? If anyone's a co-owner... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] ...and at the same time he supplies the oil, isn't that the best guarantee that he's gonna deliver the oil? I am asking, for example, in the context of what is happening today in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u265	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u266	Mr. Senator, first line. Is it that we have, that remains in the hands of Polish 70% The refinery, does that mean we're managing this refinery? No, it's not. No. A counterparty that is expected to receive 30% shares, will co-manage, not at 30%, not 50:50, he gets 30% and he gets the opportunity to co-manage this refinery. That's the deal, at least that's what I read, because nobody's actually seen this agreement, not even the Deputy Minister of the Treasury, as he claimed, has seen it. And that's the point I'm pointing out to you. Yeah, well, it's a good thing you asked. And the second question? Oh, you're saying to see who, to your friends...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u267	Don't you think that if 30% Aramco, who is the oil supplier for the refinery... [[Oh, yeah, deliveries.]] Don't you think this will guarantee security of supply in this very unstable time today? The supply chains are being interrupted today. And it's basically this. There's also some competition...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u268	Mr. Senator, Aramco sells oil to those who pay. We used to buy at Aramco, pay, buy. This isn't the kind of relationship you think it is to die. And I'll also tell you that the price Aramco pays for 30% of the refinery and for co-management And it is very important that you pay within a year. This is the volume of supplies that are anticipated, the supply of oil from Aramco. Well, that's the price. This is a great deal for Aramco.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u269	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Martynowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u270	Mr. Marshal, you didn't want to answer the question of whether you submitted any projects after the 2008 Georgia war. You didn't think it had anything to do with it. Well, it was because of such actions, or actually lack of action, that Russia at some point saw that maybe everything, and eventually it attacked Ukraine. And yet, in 2008, as you ruled, you could have submitted such a project so that no company of the Treasury would fall into Russia's hands. After all, in 2011 you wanted to sell Lotus. The words of the then Prime Minister Donald Tusk were quoted here many times. You don't see exactly what you're doing here, which you're doing right now, and you haven't done before. You yourself at the committee meeting said it was demagoguey. [[Timer signal]] This concerns the speech of Marshal Pęk and Minister Małecki. I think you're doing demagogy right now, that this is demagogy on your part.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u271	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry. You're not just out of time, you're out of time. I'm not just addressing you. You turn asking questions into substantive discussions. Every senator has a right to it, but there are still arguments here that are not questions. I will open the discussion in a moment, and each of these arguments, even in a much longer, ten-minute speech, can be presented. Please respond to Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, for making this possible for me. Mr. Senator Martynowski, by saying that Tusk wanted to sell the refinery, you're not telling the truth. Well, it's about Lotus. You're saying the wrong thing. I'm saying it again. I'm not going to refer to this... [[The words he was saying...]] But you know... What do you mean he wanted to sell? There were negotiations, were there any contacts like that? You repeat what Jacek Kurski says on TV. For you, this is real reality. And here's the thing about Georgia. Mr. Senator, don't you see that war in Ukraine is a different war in terms of scale, scope and threat to Poland than that war in Georgia? [[So Georgia can be assaulted, right?]] Senator, don't be a demagogue. Don't interrupt me. Okay? That's a different scale. The conflict in Georgia lasted a week, and here the third month begins. [[Couple of months.]] Mr. Senator, I thought you were... [[Mr. Senator, please...]] ...more reasonable than...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u273	Mr. Senator, I have no right to judge substantive questions, but I have the right to ensure that this discussion is... that what's going on in this room is done in accordance with the regulations. The question lasts a minute, then the Senator rapporteur has time to answer. And please don't interrupt, because this way we don't move forward. [[I have three minutes to answer.]] I ask you to ask Senator Sławomir Rybicki another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u274	Thank you. Mr. Senator, Marshal Pęk this morning, but yesterday at the committee meeting, he said that the adoption of this law would be contrary to the Polish state's right. At the same time, Piotr Woźniak, former Minister of Economy in Prime Minister Kaczyński's government, said that when we sell MOL to Lotus stations, we will buy part of Gazprom in Poland. In the light of these statements, do you think that the sale of Lotus station will increase the security of Poland? Is this in line with the Polish state's reasoning, or is it in line with the state of another state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u275	It is clear to me that it will reduce the security of Poland. And I agree with Minister Piotr Wozniak on the assessment of this situation, the contract with MOL. And Mr. Marshal Pop has the right to his assessment, but we are discussing it here. I absolutely disagree with him. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u276	You're asking Senator Gawłowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u277	Thank you very much. Mr Marshal, recently President Biden asked the Arab countries to increase their oil extraction due to the conflict in Ukraine. The important player is Saudi Aramco, a giant in the oil supply market. Did you know that Saudi Aramco and the Arab countries in general, the OPEC countries, refused to increase their oil extraction? And it doesn't matter if they own their own refineries. In such a situation, if they were co-owner of Lotus and refused, would Lotus have more raw material or less? Would this have any effect, or would they have cared for the high prices of oil? [[Timer signal]] The sale of Lotus means de facto acting in a non-Polish interest.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u278	Always when you own this kind of resource whether the companies are a different country, it's playing on its own business, it's just clear. Saudi Aramco is not only to receive 30% of the refinery, but also to receive 30% production from this refinery. So she's going to continue to trade in refinery products. Yeah, I know that, but we all know that in the face of the United States' suggestion that Saudi Arabia... Saudi Aramco is a state-owned company, basically a monarch's company, because that's what property looks like. There were suggestions for Saudi Aramco to increase its extraction and thus lower fuel prices on the market, but Saudi Aramco refused.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u279	Senator Krzysztof Frost. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u280	Mr. Marshal, you're still trying to tell us Not only to us, but also to those who listen to us. That Donald Tusk had nothing to do with privatisation. In 2011 and later, at the turn of 2012 the then Minister of Treasury in the government of Mr Donald Tusk, Mr Alexander Grad, began the privatisation process. Offers were submitted and 4 companies were selected. The privatisation process was then stopped by the Sejm The possibility of privatising Lotus has been blocked by a small majority of Members. Do you know how Members of the Civic Platform voted back then? [[No, I don't know.]] Then check it out, Mr. Marshal, and you'll answer yourself... In general, it was then succeeded in blocking the votes of Members of Law and Justice, SLD, Solidarna Polski. And the government pushed for this privatisation initiative. So to say that Mr. Donald Tusk's government didn't want to privatize Lotus is simply not true, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u281	Mr. Senator, you keep telling me that he wanted to sell to the Russians... Did he want to sell to the Russians? I don't think so. [[But he wanted to privatize.]] You know, this kind of thing happens under government control, just like this operation right now. Of course, it's clear to me that this is happening under government control. It's the government that decides that, to a lesser extent, Orlen's president, I think.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u282	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u283	Mr. Marshal, I'm looking at a list of entities that have spoken about this project. Entities, I would call it, government, are mostly against it, and entities that support this project Maybe we can name them: the Gdansk Loża, BCC, Pomerania's employers are usually associated with Pomerania. Tell me why it is so, Pomerania. Of course, these may be prestigious considerations. Is that how he fights for this merger to fail? Or, for example, local governments are losing something on this merger, e.g. real estate tax, PIT, CIT, etc.? Maybe some increased unemployment will show up? Do you have any knowledge that this merger could be a reason for the fact that the position of Pomerania local authorities will be worse after this merger? [[Timer signal]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u284	Mr. Senator, I haven't dealt with this issue. As for opinions of all kinds, the case was open. These opinions could be forwarded to the Senate by any subject and by any citizen. Thus, the fact that such and not other opinions were received may have been due to interest. Well, other people aren't interested in it, or they're not interested in it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u285	Mr. Senator Szejnfeld. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u286	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I would like to ask you one important thing, I think. Because the context of the war, the attack of the Russian Federation on Ukraine and the behaviour against this aggression of Hungary actually completely disqualifies this sale. And it should cause the government to withdraw from it. But I'm leaving that thread behind. Earlier, before the war she also caused controversy and resistance, among others. because, above all, it is completely unknown whether or not the purpose of the sale of Lotus is understood. The whole procedure and contract are non-transparent, unclear. We are talking about one of the most important companies in Poland, and therefore citizens, Poles, but also parliament, the Sejm and the Senate, should definitely know and understand the purpose, in order to support it or not to support it. Did the last discussion, including in the committee, explain this purpose? Has it increased the transparency and transparency of this potential transaction or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u287	Mr. Senator, the discussion has touched on this very important issue because there is public information that Saudi Aramco, who also buys Lotos Asfalt, has concluded in the agreement This is public information. of a kind used in the manufacture A reservation that he may withdraw from it. And therefore, the question has been asked to the Deputy Minister of the Treasury if it is true. The Deputy Minister replied that he didn't know because... and the question was, according to what legal order will the disputes be settled? Well, if there's a clause like that and Saudi Aramco says, "We're going to withdraw and you're going to give us back the money," then the opposite side, which is ours, can say "No." Then he'll go to court, in fact, to the arbitration court. And now there's a problem with the legal order. Is it in the Saudi legal order or in the Polish legal order? We know that the rule of law and the law of Saudi Arabia are very, very... Well, let's assume... [[Isn't that Russian?]] I'm not gonna tell you anymore. Well, it's heavily legalized. The minister said he didn't know. Then the question was whether the minister or ministry knew the provisions of the agreement. The Minister replied that he did not know, because this is a matter between Orlen and Saudi Aramco, and the government is only a shareholder and cannot know, as one of the shareholders... as a shareholder, the owner of a part of the shares, could not be in a better position than the rest of the shareholders. Orlen is a stock company. And that's where the brief exchange ended. I'm handing this over to you so you know it. Of course, this raised additional questions and additional concerns, on my part, serious. That's where I'd end up.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u288	You ask Senator Marek Martynowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u289	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, there has been so many thesis here that the Hungarian MOL Group, which will take over part of the Lotus station, is connected to the Russian business. I'm sure you know there's no Russian capital in the MOL Group's shares. But would you mind? I ask you this question more as an applicant's representative than a rapporteur. It is possible to say who is the largest shareholder in the MOL Group and what country is it from?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u290	I haven't been looking into it, and I don't have accurate knowledge of it. But regardless of who is a shareholder of the MOL Group, decisions on this group are made in the government, in the Hungarian government, of course. MOL works very closely, even organically, with Gazprom, so organically that he built the Turkish Stream part of Gazprom in his territory, and he also built 2 interconnectors 1 already finished, and the other one is probably on completion. So, not only is it involved in the transport of a different company, the purely state-owned company, but it also supports the route, it undoubtedly supports this construction. Without Hungary, South Stream wouldn't have been built. And South Stream is the second investment, an investment in the second direction, which is to avoid Ukraine. Therefore, the Ukrainian pipeline will have less gas than before, which is less than 12 billion m3. And that's how it looks. I didn't say there were Russian investors in MOL because I didn't have that kind of information, so I couldn't say it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u291	Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u292	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, did I understand the answer to the previous question that, at the meeting of the joint committee, a representative of the government, a minister of the Polish government, was not able to answer the essential terms of the Lotus asset contract, so that we do not know, for example. whether MOL will be able to Or he won't be able to, I hope. Sell, sell purchased Lotus stations e.g. Gazprom or Łukoil? We do not know whether such a clause is in this agreement or not. And the government didn't say anything about it, I understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u293	Minister Małecki said that the Ministry of Economy... No, I'm sorry, this isn't the Ministry of Economy anymore... [[State-owned assets.]] ...that the Ministry of State Assets does not have access to these contracts.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u294	So theoretically, the buyer of MOL petrol stations can sell these stations to any partner the next day, e.g. to his close partner Gazprom.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u295	Mr. Senator, I can't answer that question, but from the point of view of the law, if anyone owns something, they acquire it, then it can go away. [[Mr. Senator Czerwinski...]] Of course not at the moment, because there are these EU restrictions on Russian companies. [[Voice from the hall: But not in Hungary.]] But not in Hungary, you're right. [[Exactly. Mr. Marshal, that's the reality, they can do anything there...]] Mr. Senator, well, I don't want to argue, you know. I answer the question as best I can.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u296	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Marshal, rapporteur! PKN Orlen, which has been communicated recently, leaves in a drastic way from Russian oil, e.g. There's no Russian supplies at the moment. Does the State's actions as applicants for this project PKN Orlen's impact range after merger is expected to increase They are also targeted, among others. against this process of leaving use or Russian oil processing?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u298	Absolutely not. Come on, Mr. Senator... I am in favour of ending as soon as possible the trade in Russian energy resources, i.e. buying gas and oil, but also other resources. I am in favour of the ruthless blockade of Russia, also of goods at the border between Poland and Russia and Poland and Belarus, so... [[But the project...]] But, Mr. Senator... Well, I don't want to discuss with you what kind of project... That's not what you think. I don't think so. You asked, you asked a clear question, and I answer you clearly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u299	Mr. Senator Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, in answer to my question, you said the MOL Group is connected to Gazprom. Could you tell me, sir? I'm sure from memory, you've been a politician for a long time. For what government was the debt of PLN 1 billion lost to Gazprom 200 million?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u301	I don't know what you're asking. What debt? What's the debt for? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u302	Mr. Marshal, was that the answer? [[Yes.]] Good. It's over. It was the last question. Thank you very much to the rapporteur, the marshal. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, senators asking. These were very interesting questions, also in terms of preferences of different types. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Hello, Minister Jan Kanthak, Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets. [[Once in agriculture, once in the ministry...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Marshal, the rapporteur and the applicant, at the same time, well, we will be beautifully different. Even though we're both gdansk people, we have a completely different perspective and perspective. There have been many words here, because the debate has been going on for over an hour, but the question of what is happening in Ukraine, this beastly attack of Putin on the defenseless... luckily the defence of Ukraine, just indicates that the goal set by President Obejtek together with the board of PKN Orlen, was very right. It was a very good direction to create a multi-energy group that would secure sources and diversify sources of supply. The whole Lotus-Orlen merger is meant to serve this purpose. And the very fact that you have repeatedly mentioned during this debate that three times have wondered what to do with Lotus, how to guide these issues, shows, Mr Marshal, best proves that earlier, whether it is under the rule of law and justice or later, under the rule of the Civic Platform, the problem of Lotus has been noticed. And that's what distinguishes us, Law and Justice, the United Right, from the governments of Donald Tusk and the Civic Platform. Indeed, Donald Tusk usually spoke, but the actions did not follow, and we speak and the actions follow. Hence the consolidation, the combination, the merger of PKN Orlen and Lotus. Indeed, many words have been made here about the fact that these are the requirements of the European Commission as an antitrust body to counter concentration and to protect the single market in the European Union. And these requirements must be met. These requirements concern both the issue of petrol stations The name MOL was mentioned many times here. As well as the refinery industry. Ladies and gentlemen, before I came here, Because I found out an hour before considering this point that I would be representing the Ministry of State Assets today, I heard that I would be discussing the legislative proposal. But let's not create fiction, ladies and gentlemen, it has nothing to do with a real law. It is such a political resolution, politicians of the opposition, who do not like the idea of combining Orlen with Lotus, because the law should be general and abstract. During this debate, we have never once talked about the different companies, how this could affect the situation envisaged, i.e. the taking of consultations under Article. 4 of the North Atlantic Treaty, for other companies with the State Treasury. I have in the supervision of armaments companies and I believe that such demands to limit the state's ability to govern and manage these companies have the opposite effect. It was rightly pointed out by Senator Silencer that such restrictions can even lead to a threat to the security of the Republic of Poland. So much for that if we were to create this fiction and talk about the bill. But the debate was in such a way that we talked strictly about the connection between Lotus and Orlen. It was the name of MOL, the name of Saudi Aramco, the largest petrochemical company, the largest conglomerate that deals with precisely this type of activity, a company that is supposed to take over in the Lotus by 30% in fact. Ladies and gentlemen, this will enable the delivery to Poland of 20 million t per year, as much will be provided thanks to the connection with Saudi Aramco. Well, when to enjoy like not now, at a time like this, when Putin blackmails the whole of Europe, the whole world with deliveries that we're opening up to new markets, new sources of supply? Right now, the Senate should applaud the actions of the United Right, Government and Management Board of PKN Orlen, that we have seen so long-term, so far-sightedly with regard to the diversion of sources of supply. It is worth remembering a point, Ladies and Gentlemen, in a context often discussed, i.e. imposing sanctions on Russia, on Putin. If we look at the structure of the Russian budget, we will notice that not gas, not coal, but oil is the main factor that drives Putin's criminal actions. And we should have been independent from this oil for a long time now, from this Putin oil, which President Daniel Obajtek, PKN Orlen, president of PKN Orlen, is doing very effectively. Under your rule, in 2015, over, it seems 88% oil came from Russia. At the moment, it's about 66%. , i.e. 25% less, and there is the prospect that we can become completely independent of Russian oil supply from next year. But I'm going back to the subject of our discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the so-called. reefs, as far as the refinery industry is concerned, which proves best what I mentioned before, i.e. that there were 3 approaches. Well, three times the charm, it's finally gonna work. The so-called. reefs are a climate package and Fit for policy 55, very hard-pressed by Commissioner Frans Timmermans. Let us remind you that the European Commission would like combustion cars to be eliminated by 2035. On the oil markets, we also see a trend that indicates that the peak has already been reached in terms of demand for oil. He will grow, apparently, only until 2030. So we're seeing a decline in the refinery industry. What does that say? This shows that it is necessary to create multi-energy companies, which will be open to diverse activities, will be able to invest much more money in other areas, such as offshore, as biogas, as hydrogen. It's the only way to achieve this. So it's really worth looking at the cold sometimes. The fact that Marshal Borusewicz, as a representative of Pomerania, indicated that he was likely able to block such attempts, carry out a merger of Lotus with Orlen, as a result of political actions, is not a good determinant in my opinion, Ladies and gentlemen. If we are to make company decisions, it should be primarily business and economic considerations, not whether a policy is strong enough to block an investment or not. It often falls in the media area, as well as in this room, on the charge that MOL was associated with Gazprom that he was associated with Vladimir Putin. So, ladies and gentlemen, once again, there are no capital ties with Russian entities. I don't know why to say... Why say it's supposed to be Gazprom? We can also say that we are creating a new Shell, a new BP, because each of these companies has a very diverse supply network and a network of products that it offers. Yeah, a little honesty. When it comes to assessing the effectiveness and purpose of this merger, it is worth noting that most More than 80% votes were voted in favour of continuing the consolidation process. This shows that minority shareholders also agree with the plans of President Daniel Obajtek. It seems to me that in such a general way I have touched on all the threads. I'm open to questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u304	Minister, stay on the stand, because now it's Question Time. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Kwiatkowski is the first. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u305	Minister, you represent the Ministry of State Assets, which oversees the ownership of the Treasury. I would like to ask what is the right to evaluate this transaction also in the context of whether or not the arrangements resulting from the agreements have been implemented later. If there is a dispute, what is the court responsible for assessing whether the conditions in question have been fulfilled or not? E.g. one of the partners guaranteed the possibility to withdraw from the contract in the event of events strictly specified in the contract. According to what law will this be judged, and by what court?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u306	Mr Senator, on these issues, if I may, I would like to respond in writing. As I mentioned, I am not responsible in the Ministry of State Assets for the Department of Fuel and Energy, and I would like to give the answer here as appropriate and precise as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u307	Excuse me, I have to ask. So, Minister, you, in representing the Ministry, do not know what law and what court will later judge whether certain conditions have been fulfilled? I understand you have no knowledge today to answer such a basic question. Yes? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: We'll ask...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u308	Mr. Senator, like I said... [[Because I didn't ask a complicated question.]] ...answer... [[I asked you what court is competent and what rules.]] I'd like to ask for a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u309	Senator Swede. [[I wanted to ask you questions, but I'm afraid...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u310	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, just as the opposition disagrees with the merger of Orlen and Lotus, it did not agree with the buy-out of Orlen Polski Press, many times it sounded here in the debate that for some it was good, for others it might be less good, but Orlen bought Poland Press from a German company. Could you refer to this subject, develop it and at the same time say whether the recolonization of the Polish market, to which Orlen applied, is not a good phenomenon? [[Very good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u311	Mr. Senator, of course, contrary to what we have heard very often, capital has nationality. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of what is happening with Putin, and blocking Internet portals such as Sputnik or other media such as Russia Today, directly related to the Russian authorities... This shows that capital has nationality, especially its nationality in the media. And the phenomenon connected with the fact that the Polish company of the Treasury owns shares and takes part in the media, most often local ones, which were in the hands of foreign entities, I find very positive. [[Voice from the room: Like in Russia, the Russian model.]] [[Voice from the room: German.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u312	Senator Adam Szejnfeld. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u313	I'm afraid I'm going to get an answer like Senator Kwiatkowski because I wanted to ask the Minister, since you represent the government today... And yet the government, which I know from my experience, not only does it send someone to represent itself, the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Parliament, sometimes brings people from the other side of the world to represent, because it is supposed to be a competent representation... So I'd like to ask you if you know the sale agreement and if you think it's open, transparent, if you can give us those terms that aren't covered by the secret, because the whole contract can't be classified.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u314	Mr. Senator, you might want to save those pinches for conversations in a different place than the Senate room. But as far as the answer to your question is concerned, I will say that this is the secret of the company and the Ministry of State Assets does not have more powers than smaller and other shareholders, we have no more information than those which are made available in public reports. [[Very good.]] [[I'd like to ask if the marshal will allow it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u315	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u316	If the Minister had told me that you or your superior, because I understand that you were sent here on an ad hoc basis, as you said... Are you saying that you, as decision-makers, who decide this sale on behalf of Poland and its citizens, do not know this agreement? Only President Obajtek knows her, in short, i.e. The Orlen authorities? The Polish government does not know the content of this agreement?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u317	Mr President, as I said, this information is a business secret, and our debate is as public as possible... [[No, I'm asking if he knows. It's not about you revealing the secret, I'm asking if you know it or not.]] If the Senate were to provide information that is a secret to the company, we would not be dealing with the secret of the company because it would be completely public information. [[And I don't want you to. I just want you to tell me whether you know what the deal is or not.]] [[Mr. Senator, but...]] I mentioned to you that the Ministry of State Assets has the same access to information as other shareholders.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u318	Mr. Senator Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u319	Thank you very much. Minister, because we will vote on this bill tomorrow, I expect you to answer the question very precisely. It won't be complicated. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Jan Kanthak: Mr. Senator, I am very pleased that in such a...]] But I haven't asked a question yet. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Jan Kanthak: There you go.]] Give it a chance. Wait patiently. There's no reason to be nervous. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Jan Kanthak: I'm not nervous.]] Is President Obejtek admitted to classified documents classified, classified, top secret?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u320	Mr. Senator, it doesn't matter because the company's issues are represented by the board. That's one thing. And that's extremely important. That's the first thing you've mentioned. As if you'd say again... Sorry, I missed it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u321	Minister, this was a commentary on your earlier statement that we will be voting on this bill tomorrow. I wanted an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u322	I am pleased, Senator, that what I said is reflected and confirmed in your mouth, i.e. that this law, in your understanding, concerns only the merger of Orlen with Lotus, if this answer were to define, decide what your attitude to the law, which should be abstract and general, would concern the general situation, not the situation connected with the merger of Orlen with Lotus. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question? Because the Minister interrupted me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u323	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u324	In fact, Minister, your answers are very important because for each Pole it matters what price we pay for fuel, and the merger is one of the elements covered by this law. Whether President Obejtek making decisions is admitted to classified, top secret documents is also of paramount importance, because it is important for the security of the country. And you say it doesn't matter because it's the board's decision. In that case, is President Obejtek leaving this meeting of the board discussing mergers? I will ask you as the owner of this merger of supervision on behalf of the Treasury, also on my behalf: does he leave, or does he attend these meetings?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u325	Mr. Senator, first thing. There are several hundred if not a few thousand board members in companies involving the Treasury and I am unable to calculate who has access and who does not have access. That's one thing. Even if it were to be assumed that President Obejtek does not have this access, which I am not talking about and which I do not prejudice, it has no impact on the price of the fuels you are talking about. President Obajtek is the President and thanks to his activities the fuel prices at Orlen stations are among the lowest in Europe, if not the lowest. So, as you can see, it doesn't matter. [[Voice from the room: Ma.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u326	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u327	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The first question is... I repeat the question that I did not have an answer to earlier: what are the trends in the European Union at the moment as regards the consolidation of energy companies? How do we look in this trial? I mean, where do you put us in the back or in the front? Next line. Presumably, some countries have crossed the same path as us. Did the European Commission then set the conditions, I would call it demon-politicism? What were these conditions, and what are the conditions set for us in relation to those that were made to other countries? Are we treated the same or worse or better?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u328	Senator, in answer to the first question, I will say that the shape of the Polish fuel sector is a phenomenon in the European Union, because there is currently no second national market on which two competing similar companies would operate. And that's what this is all about, and that's what the Civic Platform noticed. As we heard, they also wanted to merge Lotus or sell it, privatize it. We remember what Donald Tusk said: it doesn't matter if it's Russian capital or if it's not Russian capital. It didn't matter from the point of view of the Prime Minister at the time. Thus, the State Treasury, as the last owner in the European Union to have non-consolidated fuel companies, cannot leave Lotus without a long-term perspective, taking into account also those aspects that I mentioned earlier, namely the European Union's climate policy, which aims to eliminate combustion vehicles by 2035, and impose on the fuel industry, traffic, travel, transport, what we are now dealing with within the energy sector, the ETS. [[I'm sorry. What about those conditions that...]] Uh-huh. If I may, I would like to answer that question in writing. Okay? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u329	You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question. In remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u330	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister... Can you hear me? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] [[Too good, Mr. Senator.]] Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'm very happy with this business and economic convention, you've used it twice, because I've worked more hard in business in my life, and I've come into politics a little bit to look at what's going on. Minister, do you know the contents of the 2 letters sent to Mr Tomasz Chróstny, President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection on 17 June 2021? They were sent by trade unions operating in PGNiG and Lotus. The second letter, Minister, sent the same unions on 23 July 2021 to the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, Mr Marian Banasi. Do you know these writings? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Jan Kanthak: Mr. Senator, no, I don't.]] I would also like to point out, Minister, that it is worth getting acquainted with them, because these two writings were dramatically similar to what Marshal Borusewicz said in his speech as rapporteur for this proposal. It's worth leaning on. Because you say there's a group from Gdansk protesting. It's not what you say. That's one thing. And secondly, Minister, in business, I'm very concerned about one thing, and I think that you, as a young man, should worry too. Namely, I'm worried that... when in business the return of capital is 7 years, it's said that it's an excellent business when it's 9 years, they say it's a good business. Minister, I, while doing business for 23 years and engaging in capital, did not know such a miracle of economic and financial interest, that within a year, as Marshal Borusewicz said, and I believe him, there would be a return of capital. I think you should lean on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u331	Thank you very much, Senator. Is there any way that the Minister can relate to this, or... Actually, it wasn't a question. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Jan Kanthak: That was not a question.]] Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u332	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm here. I hope that we both know the definition of the state's right, but it is often said that what you are going to do is the Polish state's right. By entering into the definition of the Polish state right, please mention 3 elements that strengthen this concept, confirm that this is the Polish state right. That's the first question. Second question about Russia Today. You said you didn't know the nationality of the capital and you set an example for Russia Today. Did you put it in a negative or a positive context? Is Russia Today something negative or something positive? Because there's a lot of similarities. And the third question if I make it. Minister, are you familiar with the fact that one of the elements of concluding contracts is the history of the company with which you conclude a contract and arranges the history of the acquisition of the refinery by this Saudi company in the United States, California?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u333	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u334	Mr. Senator, I told you that capital has nationality, and it matters what nationality it comes from, not the other way around. [[I'm talking about Russia Today.]] Russia Today here is an example of how the media are used politically by rulers who use it as a tool for propaganda, as is Sputnik. And the fact that we're blocking these media because they belong to a particular country, in this case Russia, shows that it matters because capital has nationality, capital has nationality. And from the point of view of the state Okay, let's get to the first question. It is important that the media of Polish origin operate in Poland... [[I didn't ask about the media.]] But you asked me what three elements matter to the state. I'm going to move on to the second piece on state ration. Now that we're talking about Lotus and Orlen, that's being an energy champion to ensure energy security and diversification of the sources of these raw materials. I will not say again that this war has shown us how important it is for these sources to be diversified from different directions, and not based solely on Russian raw materials, on which the German state, in general, has travelled, assuming its energy policy, so-called. Energiewende, which was to be primarily based on the gas that came and was to come from Russia. And now we need to get out of this quickly. The best addition to this is today's information given that Germany wants to import oil through the Gdansk port. [[Voice from the room: who controls the Russians.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u335	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u336	Minister, you have not answered whether you know the history of Aramco's acquisition of the refinery in the United States. That's one question. Secondly, I wanted to... Okay, then just answer that question, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u337	Thank you so much for appreciating my knowledge that we will now also be asking about historical aspects. I do not know the question of Aramco's takeover in the United States, but, as I mentioned, Aramco is the largest company in the world that operates as a fuel and chemical company, so I believe that the acquisition of 30% of the Lotus refinery industry is not something dangerous from our point of view, is actually a good and expected thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u338	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski. [[I'm dropping the question.]] Mr. Senator Szejnfeld. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm giving up the question, too.]] Senator Major is asking a question. In remote mode? [[Voice from the room: No...]] [[He just left.]] Then Mr. Senator Tyszkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u339	Minister, answer me: what was the procedure for selecting potential buyers of assets? It's about MOL, Unimot and Aramco. What were the alternative buyers like? What is the comparison of offers and what are the quantified arguments justifying the choice? I'm talking about choosing these three companies. What was the procedure? Can I find out why these companies were chosen and in what formula?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u340	Senator, in order to answer the question in full, we will answer in writing unless this goes beyond the company's secrecy.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u341	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Bury a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u342	Mr. Marshal! Minister! If I was well informed, and I spoke to people who are involved in fuel trading, I'm told that Pocket petrochemicals and other companies in Orlen are able to process mainly so-called. heavy oil, which is the one we get from Russia, and only Lotus is able to make light oil that comes from the Gulf. Do we not, by any chance, hand over the Saudi capital to the possibility of processing this light oil and affecting the market, to the price on the Polish market? As we know, as a result of the war, these Russian sources will end and Arab sources will gain importance. Isn't it a coincidence that we're handing over to this business the issue of our state of affairs... [[Timer signal]] ...our national interest, our future interest? Not the present, the future. I would like to ask if, in fact, Pocket petrochemicals can process mainly this heavy oil, and yet there is no technology to process this light one. Wouldn't we be left to the Saudis alone in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u343	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u344	Mr. Senator, thank you very, very much for this question. It is really amazing that when we talk about a draft law that contains 3 articles and concerns an extraordinary limitation on the disposal of the property of the State Treasury, we go to the question about the historic acquisition of the refinery in the United States, and now we are talking about the processing of oil in the Gdansk Refinery. Well, forgive me if I don't know the answer to such a specific question. I'd be happy to reply in writing. But the facts don't contradict Thanks to this agreement, thanks to this agreement with Saudi Aramco 400 thousand barrels a day will be sent to Poland, which... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...which will give us energy independence. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Minister, just my question was designed in this way... the point is that we get an answer to the question of whether this independence will cost us much more. That's it. But I'm gonna ask you to answer in writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u345	And it will be. You're asking Senator Maria Blanket. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u346	Thank you very much. Minister, there are a lot of questions here about the state's right. Certainly, the strategic issue for Poland's energy security is to increase the share of the State Treasury in this multi-energy group, which will be created. We know that the Treasury currently owns 27% PKN Orlen shares, and there is always a risk of taking control of Orlen, and even hostile takeover, by some third party. At the time of this consolidation, the Treasury will probably have a much larger share, even above 50%. Is that right or am I wrong? And does this matter to Poland's energy security?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u347	Mrs. Marshal, thank you for asking. Orlen belongs to strategic companies of the State Treasury. It's secure when it comes to the possibility of alien capital being taken over, and I don't think there's any danger here that this kind of situation, the merger situation could make things worse. It's actually gonna make things better when it comes to equity. [[So it's gonna be better?]] It's gonna be better, yeah, it's gonna be better.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u348	Senator Major. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Listening to my friends from the Platform, I have the impression that we are dealing with some giant sabotage and diversion that takes place in the Treasury companies. I have a short question and I ask for a short answer: does the activity of President Obajtka in Orlena increase the level of energy security of our country, or is it the opposite?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u350	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u351	Senator, let me answer you this: in my personal assessment, it is precisely because of the extraordinary activity of President Obajtek and his vision of creating this multi-energy group, i.e. not only of focusing on Orlen, but also of entering new markets. And that's what it is to be a visionary in business, that you find new spaces that you can enter. The best example is the last purchase of Elon Musk, who bought Twitter. Anyone would ask, "What does this have to do with electric cars?" What does this have to do with Tesla? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Maybe we should warn Muska.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u352	You're welcome... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't act like that. There was no such thing in the Senate...]] [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't. That's not true.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us not hold such a discussion. I ask you to be serious, to be calm. Senator Szejnfeld is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u353	Thank you very much. I had previously resigned from the question, but the Minister repeated his thesis, which is astonishing to me, so I am returning to that question. Namely, I would like to ask, Minister, whether oil can be purchased on the global market or cannot be purchased, there is no possibility of that unless, and this is a sine qua non condition, the refinery itself will be sold. Well, then you'll buy oil. Because you said so. Is that so or am I misunderstood?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u354	Mr. Senator, what else is signing contracts, business cooperation, and otherwise functioning within one activity, as is the case in many other refineries. It's not just a Lotus case. Well, there's going to be a connection between Orlen and Saudi Aramco, but in other countries... In detail and with examples, I will answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u355	I would like to ask you about this declaration, because this is an important issue. I'd ask you right away to find that in that answer, too. Well, if it's a deal like this... Although I'm questioning it. But if it's a related transaction, do you know? And if you don't know, you might be able to give us this in this written reply. How many barrels a year, and at what price will we have to purchase after this transaction?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u356	We will give such an answer in writing. But for me, it's amazing, ladies and gentlemen, that you're giving examples and you're talking about the fact that you've seen the need to connect Lotus to Orlen two times before, and you're still digging a hole in the rock. After all, these conditions which we are talking about, the conditions relating to both the stations, i.e. MOL and the refinery industry, are due to the requirements of the European Commission. This is not an invention of the Management Board of PKN Orlen or the Ministry of State Assets. This is a matter of meeting the expectations of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u357	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: That's not true.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if this is not true, please comment on this in the discussion. We're about to move on to this discussion, because that was the last question. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Jan Kanthak: Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senators Kwiatkowski, Czerwiński, Tyszkiewicz, Bury and Szejnfeld. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u358	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Starting this discussion, we need to be certain, as the classic said, of course, to point out the obvious from this speaker. It was not the European Union that forced Poland to choose one or another partner. The European Union has merely defined the terms of the merger between Orlen and Lotus. What does that mean? That means either President Obejtek We don't know that. Everything here is a mystery. Or the PiS government chose the partners with which it is doing the business, i.e. the Hungarian MOL Group, Unimot and Saudi Aramco. Yes, President Obejtek is a visionary. I will absolutely defend his good name. You're talking about Orlen's record profits. But what does Orlen earn? Orlen earns what we as citizens lose on. Orlen's record profits last year were achieved by the rise in CO2 emission allowances prices. Yes, President Obejtek is a visionary and earns what we as citizens lose. But this profit, which we must say very clearly, is not a profit that pleases any citizen. You're the ones who said that CO2 emissions are causing energy prices to rise for citizens, and your president's visionary is making money out of it. And that's, I'd say, the essence of this economic success. Orlen has recently recorded these record profits due to the record increase in CO2 emission allowances prices. Orlen has made most of the profits in recent years, not because of its operations, but because of its financial activities. Ladies and gentlemen, you can argue whether the merger of Orlen with Lotus is beneficial or unfavourable, but you cannot argue about what partners you have chosen for this business, because these are obvious facts. And what partners have you chosen for this business? I'm going to talk not about my grades, but about the assessments of those you trust. One of your main partners in this business is the Hungarian MOL. And what is the problem with the Hungarian MOL? What I will repeat is said by the person who is your authority in matters relating to the market of hydrocarbons, oil and already in a special way of gas: Piotr Grzegorz Wozniak For 4 years PGNiG president in your day. Besides, he was still Jerzy Buzek's advisor on energy independence, and it was thanks to him that the first intergovernmental agreement between Poland and Norway was signed, which, hopefully, will allow Baltic Pipe to be opened in a moment. He is also Minister of Economy in the government of Jarosław Kaczyński. And what did he say at our committee meeting? That the key thing about the Hungarian MOL is that in fact the key business decisions are not taken by the management of the company at all, but are taken by the highest political level, i.e. in this case Prime Minister Orbán and Foreign Minister Szijjártó. I pay particular attention to the latter. Minister Szijjártó negotiated these matters related to the details of contracts for the Hungarian MOL, the person who last November was awarded the Order of Friendship by the Russian President Vladimir Putin for a great contribution to the development of bilateral relations and industrial and investment cooperation. We don't want business with Putin's friends! We want to do business with those who will build our energy independence from the Russians. Viktor Orbán as Prime Minister of the Hungarian Government in February 2022. I draw your attention to this date, because this is already during the period during which the Americans informed all their partners in the North Atlantic Pact. Hungary is in NATO That Russia is preparing aggression for Ukraine. And what does the Hungarian Prime Minister do then? He's going to Moscow, and as part of his public announcement, he says he's gonna negotiate an order for an extra volume of Russian gas that he's gonna negotiate cases related to a long-term contract. The Hungarians signed such a 15-year gas import contract with Gazprom at the end of last year. We are therefore dealing with a country which is clearly an exhibition of Russian interests within the European Union. And with this partner, you want to build energy independence? Are you talking about this partner proudly that he will ensure energy security for Poles? Come on, let's be serious. It is this designed bill, which has been prepared, that gives you the opportunity to go out with your face, taking for a good coin that you didn't know all this before. But today the masks have fallen, we know what interests the Hungarian government represents, and that they have nothing to do with the Polish national interest and the Polish interests. It is impossible to disagree with Minister Kanthak, who says that laws should be abstract, should not touch concrete solutions. But it was you who prepared the Ownership Supervision Act in 2016, and the annex to this law is a list of strategic companies to be protected and not disposed of. So what was the abstraction? We go in the exact same direction, saying: there are certain circumstances And in this case war in Ukraine is an absolutely crucial circumstance. You have to learn from it. I would not speak in the discussion, in this debate, if this partner were, for example. Chevron, Texas, Halliburton, Conoco, American partner. Yes, with such a partner we would increase the energy security of Poland. With Hungarian MOL we do not increase this energy security. And in this case you cannot argue: you have chosen a partner with one, not another reputation, which has nothing to do with building energy security in the context of the restriction of Russian interests. And what's the best confirmation of that? The Polish government and for this I praise the Polish government said very clearly: we will not pay Russians in rubles for gas supplies. See what happened today. I have an announcement tonight, April 27th. Stopping gas supplies to Poland and Bulgaria. And what is Minister Sijjártó doing at the same time? He announced that Budapest would pay Moscow as the Kremlin expects. You're gonna build with him? Really? With him you will build energy security of Poland and reduce Russian influence in the European Union? Are you kidding me? Well, you can see in black and white what kind of partner you're dealing with. And this bill is for you to go out with your face. You can say: the legislator has decided. The contract in question was negotiated at a different time. Today, circumstances have changed. I also ignore the fact that you don't even answer the basic questions. I am terrified that, on the question of which law and what court will settle disputes with this agreement, the Minister of State Assets is the Ministry which carries out the ownership supervision He's not able to answer that question. You guys really don't start an alarm bell in a situation like this? After all, we, as legislators, are responsible for the interests of the Polish state and no one will release us from this obligation. I therefore believe that this law is absolutely necessary and necessary in this particular situation. Please also go into the details of this agreement. Well, if we sell for 1 billion 150 million PLN 30% shares in the Gdansk Refinery, and since 2005 almost PLN 10 billion have been spent on its modernisation... This is the level of economic knowledge at the level of a primary school student, grades 1 and 3. What's the benefit here? What's the benefit here for us? If you look at the amount of funds involved by the Polish State After all, the companies of the State Treasury are broadly understood assets of the Polish state In the context of what you have achieved, this is where the alarm bell should start when it comes to whether this transaction is really a transaction that you should support. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I believe that this draft law is absolutely necessary in the context of what is happening behind our eastern border today, in the context of what partner Hungary is. And this person, who you used to perform the highest functions and state functions, and in the companies of the State Treasury, has told us at the committee meeting that representatives of the Hungarian Government are negotiating on behalf of MOL. The keys are Orbán and Sijjártó. I would say this: I really... [[Timer signal]] ...I would feel much safer if Poland's energy security in the background was not the one that Putin handed the order to, with reasons that he was a great friend of Russia. Let's look for friends of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u359	Thank you very much, Senator. It's a little unusual, because there's no marshal who could change me. I will therefore make my speech from this place. I hope you'll excuse me. High Senate! Well, that's actually a second discussion on the same subject. A few weeks ago, you made a decision. Fortunately, an inept attempt to adopt a resolution that criticized and condemned the merger of Lotus and Orlen. Now you've decided to build a bill, a senate initiative. The views expressed in the previous debate therefore remain valid. So let me repeat that this is a merger of 2 entities in a very unusual situation, if we look at the European and global scene, where 2 companies in one market compete in exactly the same area. We are dealing with consolidation activities everywhere in the world right now. Therefore, it is reasonable and timely to construct such a merger. The foundation of this merger between Orlen and the Lotus Group is the agreement with Saudi Aramco. She means strengthening Orlen's relationship with a stable partner, the largest fuel company in the world. This must be emphasized very strongly here, because you do not want to see this at all costs. This is an opportunity for us to take advantage of the huge experience of Saudi Aramco, also in the technological field, which will allow for the further dynamic development of the combined group. The key is the development of petrochemicals. The Lotus Group, which is currently based mainly on 1 refinery, will benefit from this. The fact that a refinery is being closed in Europe has already been mentioned several times. Cooperation with Saudi Aramco also means increasing oil supply. Deliveries from the Arabian direction, after being combined with the Lotus Group, will reach as much as 45% the total demand of the new Orlen Group. So for the company, this is a source of quality-quality oil. From the point of view of the Polish state and state of the Polish economy, now the European state of affairs, this is a further diversification of supply directions. And MOL. It's as if we're being accused here... The transaction with MOL concerns only the exchange of stations and gives Orlen Group a chance to enter the new market. The Hungarian and Slovak markets. I mean, that's a good thing. Also in the context of Europe's departure from Russian oil The fact that Orlen oil, Orlen, which will increasingly, to a greater extent than most companies from European countries, will be pressed in this market in Hungary and Slovakia, will be supplied with oil of non-European origin. Furthermore, I would like to overthrow one fundamental myth here. Indeed, the Orbán government has done a great deal in recent years to de-russify MOL. In 2009 the situation in MOL's share capital changed very strongly. At this point, the Hungarian state has bought back The shares from the Russians for almost EUR 2 billion, and the largest shareholders currently are actually institutional investors from North America shares. Of course you can accuse the Hungarians of buying oil from Russia, but let's all hit the chest and look at the world soberly, that's what the whole of Europe really does at this point. The question of detrusion in the oil market is a great challenge, which can be quite honestly addressed also by Germany, France and other countries. And it is very outrageous here because it seems to me that in such a political sense you are so strongly emphasising the issue of the Hungarian MOL in this merger, because, as it were, you want to enchant European reality, you want to make Orbán and Hungarian Orbán as the main culprits of this whole situation that we are currently dealing with in Europe. I stress once again: Germany, the French, the Italians, the Dutch, the most powerful countries and economies of the European Union are responsible for this great European result, because Western Europe is so dependent on oil, gas and other Russian hydrocarbons. Well, really, Orbán in this whole puzzle thing is... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...this is... Thank you, Senator. Trick-or-treating. Well, let's just know the proportions. In this whole economic world, which looks this way and not different, Orlen, the government of Poland, but also aware of the market realities, shareholders... Because this is also very important: 80 percent of shareholders have agreed to such a merger rather than another model. If the shareholders are in favour, then it is hard to suspect that the shareholders in 80 per cent act to the detriment of the company which is their joint-ownership. It would be completely absurd and probably unheard of in the modern world. To sum up, this merger is well prepared, well thought out, it is very developmental for both actors. Finally, in Poland there will be a powerful, modern, with very large opportunities for development and expansion of a multi-energy company. And I think that's the clou, that's the essence of the whole problem. I'm gonna say it hard because I'm very clear in the Senate: I think Donald Tusk is doing everything he can to prevent such a group from being formed. I do not want to prejudice why it is doing this, but the principle that it is functioning in public space, that why do we need such a concern in Poland, since we have it in Berlin, works great here. It is simply in some strange sense that your political environment is doing its utmost to ensure that Poland has as few entities as possible that matter which are developing, which really compete with similar players in Western Europe in a concrete way. We have the right to make sure that Poland has such a concern. We have the right to further diversify our energy market and, on the other hand, to become even more independent of Russia. And we are really doing it much faster, much braver, much more unambiguous than the most important, the largest countries of Western Europe. And one more word about the very concept of this law. She is, in my view, very questionable in legislative terms, because she refers to the principles of the article. The 4th North Atlantic Alliance treaty is, in my opinion, unjustified. Here we are talking about matters related to military security, uniformity or threat of borders of the Polish state... I have the impression that you found some area in which you quickly created such a legal monster... Well, I'm sure if this bill, God forbid, the Senate will pass. 'Cause I'll remind you that one test in the Senate didn't work. It will be rejected in the Sejm. The Lotus and Orlen merger must be completed. The Senate cannot once again engage in such a conflicting activity, firstly, in my opinion, with the Polish state's rhyme, secondly, with those directions that the government determines... [[Timer signal]] ...shareholder, management of both companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I'm going back to the lead marshal. Senator Adam Szejnfeld will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u360	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. We in this House, but also in the country, know that the PiS government likes to spend money. Somebody else's money, of course. We know that the PiS government likes to throw public funds left and right. Unfortunately, we have also known for some time that the PiS government likes to move public finances beyond democratic parliamentary control. More than 70% public finance is out of control. We also know that the PiS government likes to give gifts to Hungarians as well. Well, for example. This priceless manuscript from the 15th century was promised to Hungary. All of these examples are sufficient to identify the PiS governments as scandalous and unfavorable governments for Poland as governments that require protest and opposition. But what we're talking about today, the attempt to sell something that PiS once called national goods, family silver, and that in such an economic and geopolitical situation, during the ongoing war, means crossing all borders. Well, that's crossing the last red line. It's here, like I said. In addition, the economic aspect has already been discussed in the debate. It sells not only 417 gas stations, it sells 100% shares in Lotos Fuel Company, sold 100% Lotus Terminal action. Most importantly, it sells for 1 billion PLN 150 million 30% shares in the refinery but, after all, also in the market to which it gives access. We are talking about a refinery in which 10 billion zlotys have been pumped into, a refinery whose revenues, according to a strategy developed during the PiS regime, are to reach 100 billion. Yeah, it's sold for 1 billion. This is a fantastic business. I wish I had a billion, 'cause I'd buy that 30% refinery in the dark. I'd give you two, maybe three billion. It's a hell of a deal. But I'm leaving it on the side. Nowadays, economics is a bit pushed out by brutal reality, so in this debate I leave these economic, economic, financial issues aside. No, however, it cannot be abstracted from the situation in which Poland is in which situation Europe is in, the situation in which the world is in connection with the attack on Ukraine, the brutal aggression of the Russian Federation on Ukraine and the role played by Hungary here. Dear companies and corporations break contracts, come out of the Russian Federation as well as companies from this industry, such as BP, ExxonMobil or Shell, and we start a business with a country that cooperates with murderers, with rapists, with those who sabotage Ukraine? Business, business, ethics, morality, morality. PiS, a party that is supposedly not only in favour of law and justice, but also to be a guardian of ethics and morality, wants to do business with those who do not condemn and even cooperate with Russia, with those who do not help impose sanctions on the criminal Russian Federation. And you expect us to accept that we will remain silent? What I'm saying is that after February 24, the sale of Lotus to Hungary... I'd leave you two alone if we talked before February 24th. Today it is not only a mismanagement, it is not only a reconciliation in the Polish fuel market, it is not only a destruction of competition in our market, it is not only a question of energy security on the one hand of the state, but also a shame and disgrace on the other hand of consumers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u361	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Hibner will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u362	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I'm gonna start by admitting that I'm honest. I am absolutely in favour of this law and will support it. And I'd like to tell you why. This isn't some whim that we can decide because maybe this recipe can be different or not at a time like this... This is the situation when we have We, as Poland The extraordinary political situation that we also need to take into account. This law does not mention that any state-owned company will never be consolidated, but merely that this consolidation should be rethought, postponed over time. Why? Ladies and gentlemen, abroad our neighbour is in battle for life, for survival. We have a war abroad. And here's the thing... 'Cause everybody's talking about big consolidation, big business, yeah, they're even saying There were many voices here that the Commission imposed them. Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone... a colleague was also in the European Parliament. The European Parliament democratically takes all legal provisions. If the law has been adopted, it is in force. The European Commission only applies this right. She doesn't say that we have with MOL or another company to make any deals or change or consolidate. She is merely saying what are the legal guidelines applicable throughout the European Union, including Poland. What do we do today? Ladies and gentlemen, this is really economic security. Because we're not talking about this one company. Here everyone emphasizes 2 companies: Orlen and Lotos. These aren't just the two companies. There may be a situation in another company in a moment. That's why we say you have to think about it and give yourself the time. In 2016, I was an MEP. The State argued that the law, which was introduced, was intended to stop the sale of shares in companies. Why? Because these companies are of great economic importance for the whole area of Poland. I agree with that. This bill has been made. In 2019 I was also an MEP. A law has been introduced which has already given the possibility of consolidation, transformations, the possibility of selling part of the shares, if this is for the state, for our entire nation to be profitable. And I agree that maybe we need to consider these issues. But what is the time in which we act? And what did this consolidation of Orlen with Lotus really have as its main purpose, which you have repeatedly repeated here, in particular at the committee meeting? She was designed to create better terms for oil contracts. That was the whole purpose they were talking about. She wasn't going to, so to speak, to develop, to introduce... that the consolidated company would deal with much larger energy areas, which is happening in other countries. And here they say: because this is big, because in France it is, in Germany it is, and in England or in other countries it is even different and they are consolidated... Yes, ma'am, but if you looked at how consolidated it is, you'd see that it's a really big difference. Look at how this is conducted, where the shares are and how these shares are later carried out in investments. Because it's not just consolidation, it should be development. This should be the development that causes us to increase the share of a given entity in the state economy, that it works on a plus in the state economy. And that was the assumption. I wouldn't have taken this subject if it weren't for us to be at this particular time of action, and two tenderers were chosen. The question is, of how many? Quiet. What were the tenderers like? Quiet. Well, the best of the tenderers were Aramco and MOL. And then we're at the committee meeting yesterday, and we find out that this MOL, even though Russia doesn't participate in his actions, But it wasn't confirmed, so it's not known if they're not working well with Russia. So the question is, do we want to bring Russia into our market? Because MOL works with Russia, MOL builds for Russia in many areas. He has entities within daughter companies that are related to Russia. So the question is, will we be happy to have a company here to control our market? We learned that we will get gas stations in Hungary and Slovakia the same way. Ladies and gentlemen, in what dimension? We give 400, and we get less than 200. Well, that's a good deal. It's great for MOL. And for us? The question is, is it worth it? Did we really choose the best of the best? Lotus is the market value of about 3 billion. Polish Petroleum Concerto Orlen 8 billion. And now: does this consolidation give us the opportunity to create an entity that is really going to be superwarming all over Europe? Is it really going to be such an entity compared to others that have 200 billion, 250 billion or 300 billion? And we're gonna have one with 11 billion, maybe 12 billion. And will he be this great competition for those European markets that are already consolidated and for those consolidated entities? Lotus doesn't just have refineries. You know he's got gas stations, but he's got other services. And this is where my colleagues mentioned these other services. That they are put up for sale in their entirety. They won't stay in this consolidated company. If they had stayed, we could say that we are supplementing other areas, so to speak. That's not true, ladies and gentlemen. We just give back, we don't get the same. MOL... Here colleagues spoke of you as Minister of Economy, who I personally had the opportunity to meet, as an MEP, I do not remember the fifth or sixth term, even when he was Minister of Economy. And what did he tell us? He said he couldn't confirm that there's a Russian entity in MOL because there's nowhere to look. But he confirmed that the links between MOL and various Russian companies are at all a very high percentage, because he checked many investments and many activities that MOL does with Russians. And now: should we decide by now that these two companies are entering the Polish market, or should we think about it so calmly, give ourselves time? It's not that we're criticizing right now, it's that these are companies that need to be rejected. We give time to think. Let's say, ladies and gentlemen, stop, think about it. There's a war, so maybe it's worth thinking about, and maybe it's time to consider whether this is the best choice. And only then can we conclude who we're signing the contract with and for how long. I'm not talking about the things that are very disturbing anymore. 'Cause, you know, like... We don't have any information on where we're gonna settle. Anything at all. And they say we have an agreement that we can give up. Then who's gonna look for the guilty? Will Mr. Obejtek be guilty then? Mr. Obajtek could be somewhere else by now. Maybe I should say not to be in the country. So let's think about how we're gonna solve this. Because for me, the most important thing is not for us to say to each other, to throw each other's arguments at them, but for us to stop and tell them what we can do so that together we can make a bill on yes, and what we can do so that, when we sign a contract, we can all be so sure that we don't have any doubts. Because what's in this bill is, ladies and gentlemen, our doubts. It's not like we don't want to. These are our doubts about time, companies and what rules We're gonna do it all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u363	Thank you very much, Senator. The floor will be taken by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This decision, which is pushed forward, concerning poaching, dividing Lotus and selling its parts, and the part of joining Orlen, is an extremely dangerous decision. I understand, if it were to include Lotus in Orlen, it would still be acceptable. If it was a business relationship, one way or the other, yeah. But here Lotus, which is a very good and modern company, is to be cut and these pieces are to be handed over to others. In queue, of course, PGNiG is waiting, the law on the acquisition of this company by Orlen is in the Seym. If there's a justification for the fact that the operation of these two companies coincides... Well, the effect that it's just coming out of the ground, but here's the gas, and here's the oil, there's another way to use these raw materials. Lotus is to be divided, 30% of the refinery is to be sold to Saudi Aramco and Saudi Aramco to have an impact on decisions regarding production, processing and, having 30%, to receive 50% the production of this refinery. The rest is to be transferred, the fuel bases and the surroundings are to be transferred, such as Lotos Asfalt, Lotus Railway, all those companies that operate within the Lotus as a whole, they are to be sold. So basically, if that happens, this company, built for many years in which it was invested, will cease to exist, will be destroyed. This is a truly unprecedented situation. I thought that the conditions set out by the European Commission would not be accepted by the government, but it turns out that it agrees, did not negotiate better, and agrees with those which were designated in connection with the merger, taking over part of Lotus by Orlen, because of course this is only taking over part. This is an unprecedented situation. In a dozen years Lotos under the leadership of President Olechnowicz was building, modernising, there was an investment in the form of the Lockheed Martin offset. When we bought the F-16, we negotiated, the government negotiated offset. Part of this offset went to Lotus and Lotus took advantage of it, modernized himself, received know-how. As a result, approximately 10 billion were invested in Lotus, specifically not in Lotus, in the refinery. So? Are we selling this to Saudi Aramco? How much? $1.5 billion, $2 billion, $3 billion? We don't know exactly, because the information about this operation is just press, media. Turns out we're not the only ones who don't know, because the Deputy Minister we asked said he didn't know either. He doesn't know the basics. [[But he's gonna answer to...]] He also said he didn't see the deal at all. What do you mean? Is this the very wise former Uncle Pcima doing this? Is he the only one who knows? Is he the only one who knows this deal? This is a situation that I really haven't met, even though I've been in politics for a long time. I haven't met with such a situation that the Minister would answer: I don't know the contract. It's about the most important operation that's being carried out right now and that has the government's approval, because of course it's not the president of Orlen here who decides, but it's like he's running the government. And the government is for what? What's the government for? The government is responsible. Of course, he also bears her, but the government is also responsible for what is happening and what is going to happen next. The whole operation is under the slogan: we're doing a huge energy company, a South Korean chebo, where everything is. Okay, let's see, let's see what this thing looks like. Lotus' market value right now is $2.6 billion, Orlen's market value is about $8.5 billion, totaling about $13 billion. And what does it look like with other companies that are going to be comparable to which this new conglomerate is going to be comparable? Shell British-Dutch at the beginning of 2022 reached the market value of $186,5 billion, Total French, $ 154 billion, UK BP, $106, nearly $107 billion, Norwegian Equinor, $95 billion, ENI, Italian ENI 54 billion. And let's take a look at Saudi Aramco. The value of Saudi Aramco is $2 trillion. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a rule that if an ant goes to bed with an elephant, it must be very careful. That's the ratio. This company will have a ratio of 1:200 compared to Saudi Aramco. So, what, it's gonna be a major company? Is that why you have to destroy another company to build something like this? It's a fantasy. Fantasmagoria that we're creating some kind of... [[Champion.]] Some kind of champion. Yeah, champion. And now the Hungarian issue. [[Timer signal]] The situation was as follows. When the decision was made, there was no war... [[Timer signal]] Right now there's a war, big, full-scale war. The war in which Hungary and Orbán, not only isn't standing on the sidelines... He pretends to be on the sidelines, he supports what's going on... He supports Russia. He's dealing with Russia. Three weeks before Russia's aggression in Ukraine, he paid a visit to Putin. They probably drank good wine from Putin's vineyard because he's got a habit of... [[Mr. Marshal, time's up. Finish it.]] Now. And then what? Hasn't the situation changed? MOL, the company that takes over the stations, is organically associated with the Russian company, the most important gas company in Russia, which is Gazprom. MOL is building an episode of South Stream. So? Nothing's changed? Hungarians block deliveries in such a situation. Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs, says that what is happening in Ukraine is the fault of Poland. Is he supposed to be getting a bonus from Poland for this? Ladies and gentlemen, from every point of view, what is happening is absolutely unacceptable. There's time for the government to get out of this. This bill gives you that time and gives you an excuse to back off face-to-face. Will the government benefit from this? Well, we'll see. I hope so, but... Because hope always dies last. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u365	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay will speak. I was looking for your senator, but your marshal was covering for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u366	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! And the last representative of the Ministry left, and I have a few words for the Minister here, but I understand that nothing is lost in public space, so I will address two words to Minister Kanthak. Here's what I'm gonna say. It's not for me to judge all of this or what anyone who comes here represents himself, but I'm going to say two words in general. I am here for the third term and I would like to say that the Minister has shown incredible effectiveness in the number of written replies. This is a really important thing. To what the Minister has said, I must address it in a few words. The Minister, of course, had a good speech at the level of the PiS, a political speech. You talk, we do. Well, I don't want that long list anymore... Remember, this is where Senator Marek Borowski used to read it. But I've written down a few things here. Well, fantastic recent venture of Polish Load. Well, you guys are amazing. Such a wonderful document is yet to be seen by the Republic in recent history. Drones, drones, electric cars, luxtorpeds, high-speed railways, etc. Plus, the woods were supposed to be planted. After all, when you gather all that you tell in public space... And the constitutional minister comes and says, "You promised, and we do." Well, that's completely paranoid. I understand that when you're in power, you're not able to accomplish everything. After all, once the Civic Platform promised it would be 3 times 15. I believe that one of the downsides of the Platform is not fulfilling this old postulate, because people are still asking me today, too, why we didn't do it then. Therefore, you need to have some criticism. And now the constitutional minister is saying that the deal is secret, that he doesn't have access to it, that he doesn't know... He can't answer simple questions. Well, we're dealing with some kind of secrecy here. That is the credibility of law and justice. Look, when they were in the opposition, they said that transparency was fundamental, that there had to be transparency. You remember what it was like with the privatisations that were made in previous years, for different crews. Well, it was known how many offers were submitted, what are the terms and conditions with whom the contract is concluded, what are the additional terms, etc., etc. There was a whole range of information, and it concerns not only sales, but also the whole shell, the benefits of this transaction. We don't know anything here. All we know is it's gonna be those companies that were mentioned: MOL, Saudi Aramco and something else. But we don't know under what conditions this is going to take place. All we know is how much it's going to be, because the deal is secret. As they were in the opposition, they said: the wages of citizens, especially in high positions, must be made public. And what happened? Suddenly, the President of the Supreme Court says that the President of the Constitutional Tribunal will have secret earnings. That's the credibility. Reliability in politics is very important, and your actions show that you cannot have any confidence in you. I must say, Mr. Marshal. I'm calling you Marshal Bang. In his speech, in which he argued why this draft law should be rejected, it was very harsh. I understand that taking this place has made your attitude relaxed. But I will make some comments, Mr. Marshal. It's a good thing you were talking about your doubts about the legality of this project. That's what you said. You have every right to do that. I can say that until the Constitutional Tribunal questions this, the bill is final. These are your words, Mr. Marshal. [[I don't recall...]] Mr. Marshal, this is the credibility. Well, you don't say that once, once in a while, depending on the circumstances. You said, Mr Marshal, that these are the recommendations of the European Commission. This is often repeated: these are the Commission's recommendations, go to the Commission and get it done. Well, guys, you guys are doing everything backwards, like you've been turning things around for the first time in your lives, privatizing things. You guys don't even know how to move. If the Commission has set conditions that are unacceptable, what do you do? Either they're rejected, or they're negotiating, and they're not saying, "The Commission has imposed on us, so we're gonna take... And what was it like when it came to the courts? You remember how there was a problem with the courts. Well, from this stand, the Senators of PiS have said that the European Union will not dictate anything about the rule of law. This can't be happening! And when it comes to MOL or other things, it's all by the Commission. It was the Commission that said this should be done. And now to state that fusion is a Polish state right. Well, that's a fantastic term. The Minister has outdone himself by saying that Poland is so right about the state that he must let Saudi Aramco and MOL in. This is the Polish state right? Mr. Marshal, I also refer to this part of your speech. I'm even in favour of concentration of capital. It is important that Polish capital is concentrated, also within the petrochemical, energy industry. But what is this? What's the synergy here? What are we gonna get here? This is where we give it back, and this is where we buy it. I asked the Minister. Look, I asked the Minister. After all, when you let a company like Aramco in, you have to read what they've done in life. And how they read how they fucked smart guys like the Americans, how they took over the entire refinery in the U.S. in 20 years... And at first, they came in calmly. That's what Jacek Bury was asking. It's like it's on the palm of your hand. Well, they're coming in with new technology and very well, let them come in. Heavy oil can be processed in Porsche petrochemicals, but they'll say no, we'll deliver ours, the light one. But here in Gdansk, we can't, we need to expand it. We will expand and take over the whole project. You don't have to be Einstein to know how to do it. Maybe I'm giving you a clue for nothing. And if we want to create a company, Mr. Marshal, I agree with you that we should create a strong company according to the Republic, which is a significant player on the market, then we should not do it on the basis that we sell a little here, we will sell a bike here, we will buy a wheel here and we have a great company. As part of the negotiations, it is necessary to invite the known companies, mainly here, to know how they will bring money, and sell them back as if they had increased capital, etc., etc., etc. These are the basic elements for building this big company. Two more words about credibility. Do you remember when Law and Justice bought the German airline Condor? Here are the stripes: Poland takes over the airline in Germany, we will be to those who will provide the service on the German market. We've already said hello to the goose. It's all gone. No Condor, no line... Now what? By 5:00, the airport will be open. That's what Condor looks like in your edition. It's amazing what you're doing. And now I'm gonna tell you about these local papers. As I asked the Minister about the Polish state's right... Remember? Money has nationality. And so Russia Today, which is national... I'd still say, and this is my model. Because it's not about Poland Press being in foreign hands. I also believe that it would be best if this company were in Polish hands. But when it's bought by a company that's supposed to be a champion, and it's built for that, Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen... Why is he building it? To lubricate that all evil in Poland is the fault of the opposition. In what other country is it that the state media mostly go to the opposition? [[Voice from the room: Russia.]] [[Voice from the hall: And in Hungary.]] In Russia, in us and in Hungary. And now we all want to focus here as part of this privatisation. You said you weren't gonna sell a button, a family silver. I can quote here. I've prepared myself, but I don't have time anymore. The statements of the leading politicians that the national is us at all, zero... And do you know who sold the most land in the years 2007 to 2015 under Donald Tusk's rule, and now, in the years when PiS rules? You sold twice as much land to foreigners as you sold under the Civic Platform. [[But they say no.]] [[Because there was a total ban on selling in your day. That's the subject...]] But, Mr. Marshal, I'm gonna have to add two minutes. Mr. Marshal, you have to build the facts first, and then... [[In our day? What are you saying? Come on.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, let me... I'm talking about the facts I pulled out of farming organizations that show how you talk about family silver. And now for last... [[Timer signal]] I encourage you, Mr. Marshal, to conclude this, Mr. Marshal, we are in favour of a fair discussion about... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, we are in favour of discussing the creation of a great championship, an energy company. But once again, don't do it with those who are Putin's lovers and friends, don't do it like that, because even in 19th-century Poland it didn't privatize or transform like that. This is I do not know what to call an academic example of how not to privatize part of the property, how not to let the company in. After all, we're letting in a huge company from Saudi Arabia for free, which means we're delivering it to the market... I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. One element, of course, is that we will have access to the oil that this company is extracting and marketing. If they didn't want to sell us on the open market, I would understand, but they want to sell. I therefore appeal once again: Mr Marshal, vote for this. You'll see, the truth will set you free. We're going to create a pretty good project and a pretty good privatisation, and then we're going to say, thanks to the Senate, a pretty good championship was created. Mr. Marshal, not to speak twice... Last sentence, please. [[Give me a chance.]] There's been a lot of... Mr. Marek, my sympathetic colleague, talked about Tusk's statement that Tusk was behind the sale to the Russians. I just want to tell you how it was, so you know what it was like... [[It's bad for you guys.]] Exactly. And you on this lie won the 2015 election. It was a lie of the Polish type in ruins, it was a lie about... I won't mention it anymore. And Donald Tusk asked at the conference if he allowed other capital, among others. from Russia, in the context of privatisation, he replied: I cannot, for ideological reasons, as a dry politician, reject any of the offers that will be made, but I promise you that, together with Mr Olechnowicz and Minister Grad, we will look at the offers submitted, with particular regard to Russia as a country that we are already partly dependent on, and we will make all this public announcement so that you can express your opinion. Can you say something more transparent? Therefore, I ask you not to repeat what they say on TVPiS, because they have one task: to slander, to lie, to slander and to lie. Senators of the Republic of Poland... In the Polish Parliament, respect belongs to everything, and in this respect let us rely on the truth, not on speeches. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u367	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u368	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will begin by quoting, quoting from an expert, a man who, I repeat, was a minister of economy in the government of Jarosław Kaczyński, a quote from today. Today Minister Wozniak gave an interview to the portal newspaper. en and said something like this: Hungarian MOL is a genuine long-term business partner and ally of Gazprom; the sin of Polish politicians is that we invited a hard ally of Putin to Poland. Is there anything more to add? Actually, I don't think there's anything left. If the PiS invites a hard ally of Putin to Poland And that's what the PiS expert says. Is there anything else you need to add? [[Voice from the room: No?]] You can, and I'll add. After the story... wozniak in this interview I encourage you to read this interview today It explains the issue of the exchange of petrol stations, etc. In fact, it doesn't matter, because it's important to be profitable, to be profitable from one station to another, not the number of stations. Using this type of argument is criminal from the point of view of this process and only proves that those who use this type of argument have no idea how to approach things in business terms. I, earlier today, asked the Minister whether President Obajtek had access to documents which have categories: confidential, reserved, secret, top secret. Because it's not a decision that... Oh, Minister, please, sit down. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Shall I say something about privatisation? I'd love to.]] [[Not about privatization, but...]] Can you tell me if you're... [[... President Obejtek...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: But please calm down. Proceed.]] I asked about Mr. President Obajtek's access to classified documents, classified, top secret documents. And I heard the answer that the Minister didn't know that. We are selling, or actually PiS is selling a strategic company from the point of view of security of Poland, and the minister does not know if the President, who carries out such an operation, has access to classified documents? This is a national business, we're selling... And the minister doesn't know what the deal is. Excuse me, so what does this minister know, what does this government know? Does anyone there know anything about this? What kind of deal is it made? What kind of secret stuff is there? I said, what's Hoffman doing there? What's Hoffman doing? It is a mystery that she has participated in the negotiations between Orlen and MOL. I want to know what the rules are. Anyone from the P.I.S. answer? There's no one in the government, because it doesn't matter, and you're gonna do your job. I mean, today you think you're gonna do your job, because even if you do, life doesn't end today, it's gonna go on, and there's gonna be a lot of things going on. You have doubts about the connection between MOL and Saudi Aramco and Gazprom. The connection of MOL was already a lot. Let me just remind you that MOL actually sells 90 or 100% on the Hungarian market gas from the Turkish Stream pipeline and himself was involved in the construction of the entire transmission system to Western Europe. Saudi Aramco, a subsidiary, performed one of the episodes of this Turkish Stream, had connections. Don't you see any relationships? It also makes other investments in favour of Gazprom, it is clearly linked, evidently. Putting a big player on the market in a small company does not mean, as the Minister said, that there will be 400,000 barrels a day in Poland. How could he know how secret the deal is? But that's what he says, he comes and tells himself. The deal's classified, he doesn't know anything, he's gonna answer in writing, but he's giving this type of data. That doesn't mean that, even if it were written directly in this contract, and it's not, because we don't know that... That means more or less that Saudi Aramco will dictate the terms and prices of oil as he wishes. If he wants to stop Lotus, he'll stop Lotus. For the great colossus to stop the lotus and take over a piece of the market does not matter much. He can really produce oil and introduce ON or gasoline through his stations, which he will have in the rest of the way, to the Polish market without a big problem. He doesn't have to do this in Poland. You say, sometimes I hear it, about the great success of Obejtek, about 11 billion profits in the group. There must be companies that have generated huge losses, probably the Media Press, regional media are among them, I don't have that knowledge, I guess only. And this 11 billion was pulled out of the pockets of Poles, the Poles paid for the high margins of Orlen. There's nothing to brag about. It is really a disgrace that you want to build a great monopoly in Poland, which will dictate fuel prices for Poles. From the point of view of the market economy, from the point of view of economic interests, from the point of view of the interest of a single Pole, it is thinking from a commune, such a pure, classic representation of a commune. Big monopoly, no one's gonna tell us, we're gonna put our guys in there, we're gonna bring them from Pcim or something. I don't know what kind of hauls you're pulling. And they're gonna set us up. The chief accountant at the ILOS manages Lotus, somewhere there someone manages something else, they are indeed fully qualified to deal with big energy companies. You're saying Tusk wanted to privatize and so on. Senator Czarnobaj talked about it, so I won't refer to it anymore. The only one who really wanted to sell anything to the Russians is Morawiecki. As president of the bank, he participated not only in one but in several such transactions. One of them concerned PKP Cargo, another concerned the attempt to sell to the Russians one of the companies, one of the large chemical plants in Poland, i.e. the Chemical Works, the Police, then the Grupa Azota. He was involved in this trial. So if you're looking for someone, it's called Morawiecki, he's in Ujazdowski Avenue. That's where you go, you can do whatever you want, throw eggs, scream, whatever. There's the right address. I've heard the minister complain about the story called Fit for 55. Well, you can't have that short a memory, the minister's a young man. Unless he was deliberately trying to deceive us, to lie, because a man named Mateusz Morawiecki agreed to the document "Fit for 55. " There is just one place in the negotiation process within the European Union, where one country can block the decisions of all other countries, it is the European Council. But she didn't block it. That's where unanimity is required. Morawiecki agreed to this. So who do you blame? A real mirror when you shave or wash... You need to look at them more often and wonder: who do we support? I'll say it: you support national traitors! Today, supporting the sale of Lotus is national treason! This is national treason, because this is a game of Russian interests, a game of Gazprom's interests, a game of Putin's interests. That's what you want to do. And that's something that should rule you out. Eliminate anyone who defends this transaction from public life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u369	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u370	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It started a few weeks ago, it's not the first initiative in this area. The same author, Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, was also the author of the resolution of 9 March, expressing opposition to the sale of Lotos. Same draft resolution It's pretty curiosal, mostly plagiarizing the call of the Gdańsk Business Club. Fortunately it did not pass, several senators from the other side reflected in time and the resolution became history. So what? The subject was returned, but also, I presume, not on its own initiative, because, according to the opinion accompanying the project, the conference at the University of Gdansk took place at the risk and consequences of the distribution and sale of the Lotos group. The economic and social perspective and it is likely that there is an appeal to address this issue again. And it's in a dramatic way. 'Cause you can't use another term here. In the form of a draft law. Why dramatic? Let's talk about it. We're still watching, I'd call it, a boost in Pomerania. All opinions that are negative for the project... Their author is e.g. employers' organization Pomerania employers, Gdansk Loża BCC. So these are organizations located in Pomerania or representing Pomerania's interests. The question is, why? Does the merger of Lotus with Orlen cause any threats to the local or regional community, for Gdańsk, Pomerania? Oh, no. Neither will it increase unemployment, it can only reduce it, nor will it affect property taxes, PIT, CIT. So the question is, what is it really about? Perhaps reviewing Lotus sponsorship policies and lists that are published on the website will tell you more about it. What happened when Pomerania was the only one protesting? Perhaps for prestigious reasons, it is also possible. But I don't think it's just that. If the bill is passed by the High Senate, will there be any results? Of course not. The Sejm dealt with similar content as one of the amendments to the Homeland Defense Act, and it was rejected, even then, by the Sejm. So what's the second time? To meet the expectations of the Pomeranian environment? Mr. Marshal, get more of those texts. Whether it's sponsored, whether it's directly by different organizations, here, to the Senate, at least in this respect, doesn't drop it off. Okay? It'll be easier, and it'll be better for the Senate too. And now we're talking about the text itself, because we'd also have to say something about it. Well, the text of this bill is to settle one single thing, a single fact. To prevent the merger of Orlen with Lotus. But whether or not this merger will be carried out, under what conditions, after which time, it should not, because it has no such competence, decide the Senate. These are the powers of the executive authority. So often you use the concept of Constitution. But we have three divisions of power. The system of the Republic of Poland is based on three divisions. The Sejm and the Senate are legislative authorities and do not have the power to directly conduct ownership policies. He's talking about it directly, Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [6]. 4 of the Constitution: to the extent and in accordance with the principles laid down in the Constitution and the laws of the Council of Ministers in particular, and there are several points further, one of them reads: "Protects the interests of the State Treasury'. It is she who manages the property of the State Treasury, of course indirectly, e.g. by companies. Not the Sejm and not the Senate. By the way, only the Sejm has control of this economy. Not even the Senate In accordance with the Constitution, e.g. through the Supreme Chamber of Control. You're mixing two different issues and trying to get the facts right with a legislative prosthetic, so far the project. Yeah, you want to do it again. You want to rule? There you go, win the election, have a majority, formulate the government. Then you'll make decisions. The Senate does not adopt draft laws in this respect. Incidentally, the project, like any law, is of course general and abstract. This project affects not only Orlen and Lotus, but all 30 companies, e.g. such as: Poczta Polska, PKP SA, PKP PLK, PZU, Totalizator Sportowy, Grupa Azota, Enea, Energia, Energa, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. You're proposing to take it from the ceiling... But I'll get to that, Art. 4 of the North Atlantic Treaty. You are proposing to freeze the activities of these companies. I mean, what else is a ban on selling or selling? Not only sales, but also a ban on donations, e.g. for public purposes. It will not be possible to make a road because you will not be able to spare a piece of property owned by any of these companies, for the benefit of the municipality or district, or the voivodship, which is an investor. Well, then, you're offering. For nine months... No terms, no terms, no restrictions on this single ban. You are simply proposing a complete freeze of the activities of companies of the State Treasury, these major strategic ones. As for the issue... here in this discussion there were a lot of arguments for mergers or mergers. But this is not a discussion for this House. These arguments should perhaps be made at scientific conferences, perhaps, or, in fact, at the Council of Ministers meeting of the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers, in the appropriate Ministry, but not in the Legislative Chamber. The legislative chamber is not to gamble in this area. So the question is cui bono? Who can possibly gain from this project if it becomes the law? I hope it doesn't. Or Germany? I'm sure it is. There will be no big company, no fuel competition. Or Russia? I'm sure it is. The process of leaving Russian oil in our refineries will be delayed. And, of course, organizations, let's call it sponsored or lobbying, whose lotus was a cash cow in Pomerania. That's what this is really about. I would really warn against such policy-making: unconstitutionally, contrary to the right objectives, and above all not intended for the general good. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u371	Thank you very much. Please take the floor, sir... Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz in correction mode. [[As a matter of fact, I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, I'm filing a motion to reject the entire project.]] There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u372	Senator Czerwiński didn't surprise me with anything. In corrigendum mode, Senator: you use half-truths and suspicions very often in argumentation. [[And you're not.]] The half-truth was that I committed a plagiarism by presenting a resolution. Well, yes, it was based on... [[Voice from the room: On the article.]] No. Exactly. Previously on "Senator" said it was an article. No, at the position of the union It was based in such a way that they were informed and agreed that their position should be used here. That's half-truth, Mr. Senator. That's one thing. Second, suspicion. You're suggesting that someone would have a business, and in fact I would have an interest in keeping Lotus from being destroyed. Yes, I have such an interest because I am a Senator of the Republic of Poland and I believe that the destruction of Lotus is a reprehensible thing. And if you'll excuse me, I'm sorry for the kind of suggestions you're using. It's not worthy of a senator. And one last thing. Well, it was great that you introduced an amendment to the resolution, which shows that Lotus is being sought by Germany, not Hungarians, and BASF, not MOL, which is such a stupid amendment that it surprised everyone. [[Voice from the room: At the previous resolution.]] So I congratulate you on this type of procedure, which is not worthy of this House either, because nonsense amendments... [[Timer signal]] ...do not enter. [[If I may, Mrs. Marshal, my name has been mentioned.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u373	Thank you, Senator. [[In corrigendum mode, short.]] Good. But could the senator, by his grace, let me finish what I'm saying? [[As always. I'm sorry, of course.]] Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski. But this is the last time, please, because I wouldn't want a discussion between senators here.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u374	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal, for your understanding. This is the draft of this resolution, and this is the text that has been plagiarized. Colorfully marked fragments are even the same as for punctuation. Copy the paste. Plagiarism is when you use it that way. And the fact that you've informed... But you haven't told the High House what you're using. That wasn't until then. As for the other suggestions, you can review the protocol, see what I said, and what you suggested I said. E.g. I didn't make an amendment, just a motion for rejection in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u375	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! A little provoked by my predecessor, maybe I'll ask a rhetorical question to the senator: whose cash cow is Orlen? Well, you asked the question: whose cash cow is Lotus? Well, let me ask you, whose cash cow is Orlen? And now I am. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking because on 4 February this year I have asked the Minister of State Assets 20 questions, 20 very important questions to which I wanted to answer to be convinced that the merger of Orlen with Lotus makes sense and serves national interests. I personally don't really have anything against mergers of all kinds, consolidation. I've been an entrepreneur for half my life, running a big company, then I was a senator, so... let's just say the word consolidation doesn't scare me. That's not what scares me. I am terrified by the word "monopole," which is actually the opposite of diversification and competitiveness. That's what scares me about the monopoly. And on top of that, a monopoly which, as it were, is slipping out of hand when it comes to the supervision of the Polish government. Because if we are talking about Hungarian and Arabic companies here, so be it, then I have serious doubts as to whether these are really partners who give us the guarantee of energy security. If the Americans were buying shares, I think there wouldn't be a bill, and no one would have any doubts about it. But participation in the acquisition of the company or participation in the energy market, the fuel market of Poland, as far as Hungarians are concerned, as far as Arabs are concerned... Well, I'm having serious doubts. Now, back to what you said, sir. - No, I'll name it. Mr. Senator Czerwinski... Mr. Senator, I have a position of trade union and Orlen, and Lotus. And these aren't trade unions located in Pomerania, these are trade unions that operate all over the country. And they have a negative attitude towards this consolidation. And one more point. You said selling property was freezing your business. Did I understand you correctly? Because the bill doesn't prohibit Orlen and Lotus from doing business. At most, the law prohibits the sale of assets, and this. Okay, here's the For a while. After all, it is not that this consolidation is not going to happen at all, but this law is designed to stop this process because what has happened in recent months in the world is causing serious doubts. I think the intention of legislators is to stop this process so that in a calm, normal way we can make the best decision for Poles. I'm going back to what I said earlier. I've asked 20 questions to the treasure ministry. I practically didn't get any answers to any of these questions. The 20 questions I asked on 4 February, which is before everything that happened in connection with the war in Ukraine. I asked, for example. such questions: what was the procedure for selecting potential buyers of assets Mol, Unimot, Aramco? What were the alternative buyers like? What is the comparison of the offers and the quantified arguments justifying the choice? Who makes the valuation of the assets sold, etc., etc.? These points are specific. Of course, the answer can be very simple. There are no representatives of the Ministry in the Chamber. You can always say it's covered by a secret. This can always be the case and always the answer can be given. And more or less such answers were given over and over again by the Ministry. They were signed by the Secretary of State Maciej Małecki. And that is the short answer to 20 specific, very specific questions. Perhaps if the answers were given in the right way, I too would be convinced that it is worth it, and there is no danger here. But after such an answer, it is difficult to vote differently from the bill. Because I have serious doubts about this so-called one. consolidation, which in itself is nothing bad, but in the situation in which Poland was found, raises powerful, serious doubts. I'm not gonna read all those questions. If anybody wants to, they can go to my website and find the statement I made and the answers to that statement. I'd just like to make a point. It's also coming up in the Ministry's response. That most of this information is basically classified. Okay, I have a question. Since this information is classified and President Obejtek does not have access to classified information, on the basis of which information President Obajtek makes decisions as President of Orlen on consolidation, on connection with Lotus and on the participation of MOL, Unimot and Aramco? And how is that possible? There's no access to classified information. They're reserved. I don't have access to that information either. But the decision is taken by Orlen's president as chairman of the board of directors. So once again, I don't mind the consolidation process, but under the conditions in which we are now in danger in terms of national energy security, this decision should at least be stopped. And decisions should be taken after taking into account all the circumstances we have been dealing with since 24 February. So much for my position. Because of these doubts that have not been resolved, and because the information has not been given to me, I will vote in favour of this bill. And finally, to Senator Swede... I'll name it, too, Senator. It's about the acquisition by the Orlen Polski Press Group, isn't it? There's no other way to call it... I'll allow myself here to use the phrase "putinization." Because what's the point of Orlen taking over the media? Is that a party goal or an economic goal? Because I would also like to hear about the fact that Orlen bought Poland Press, the answer to the question: what results did he achieve? Because if a commercial law company buys, it's to make a profit. So did sales increase, profits increased due to the fact that Orlen bought Poland Press? I'd like to find out. Because such methods of taking over by state authorities, and thus political parties, free media, are precisely such mechanisms we have in Russia, Hungary, Turkey and other countries. So what was the purpose of the acquisition of Polish Press by Orlen, if not political? That's what I'm saying in my example, too. To stop being literal. I come from Lubuskie voivodship and we have been operating since 1952 with Gazeta Lubuska... First, Gazeta Zielona Górska, then Gazeta Lubuska. I'm saying it with full responsibility. After the acquisition of the Lubuska gas by Poland Press it became the party body. So we have exactly the same mechanisms as in Moscow, as in Budapest, and as in other authoritarian, non-democratic countries. Therefore, in the absence of an answer to these questions and in the light of my doubts about the functioning of Orlen as an independent company acting in the national interest, I will vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u377	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u378	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We, members of the Legislative Commission, already yesterday we had the elements of the discussion that has passed in this Chamber. I will remind the High House that, despite the invitation, as far as I know, representatives of PKN Orlen and Lotus did not appear at the meeting of the Legislative Commission on such an important matter. Which can be taken so that they may not want to answer any questions that one of the senators would like to ask them. Dear Izbo, it is true that the 2019 Law and Justice Programme suggested a merger of PKN Orlen with Lotus. Nevertheless, there is always a question in these situations: but on what principles? In fact, this dispute, which is in this House, perhaps it would not have been, had it been a purely business-economic-macroeconomic operation consisting in consolidating the entity that would have been the strongest in the market if it had not been for the conditions under which this consolidation is to take place. Then perhaps it would be an economist's dispute, they would be presented with such rations in connection, by division... Notabene in the Promised Land is said: as they accept for work, they will slow down, as they slow down, they will accept. I've done this before in my life. Once, behind the Game there were big economic organisms, and it was called a WOG or something. Before that, there was unity, then there was fragmentation. And this is a natural process that just appears. And around such decisions or such actions there is a substantive discussion, there are disputes. Of course, somewhere in the back, there's always politics. But in my opinion, what is painful in this case is the conditions imposed by the European Commission, which in turn, on the assumption that, if such a strong entity is to be created, this entity cannot be dominant to the extent that the Commission considers to be bad, has set out the conditions to diversify the potential of Lotus in this merger. And what's more, if it was a good idea, we're talking about this consolidation here. This was at least 3 possibilities of action by the Polish government. Firstly, it was possible to try to dialogue with the European Commission on the principles of this merger. Secondly, it was possible to withdraw from this merger. It wasn't the European Commission's compulsion that the merger had to happen, was it? It was just a question in such a mode and a definition of the terms of this merger. Finally, thirdly, we could actually consider the partners who would guarantee the energy security of our country, especially since yesterday, when we see how gas weapons, raw materials, energy is simply becoming a political weapon and part of the hybrid war that Vladimir Putin is leading with Europe. Because at the moment, cascades in the next countries will either give out gas or will not give up, social moods will change. And this will be used in the propaganda war, the socio-technical war with the European Union. And from this point of view, in the light of the statements made by Minister Piotr Wozniak, who at the meeting of the Legislative Commission... And let me remind you that he was the Minister of Economy in the Government of Law and Justice, he was the President of PGNiG, he is a specialist in this area that he spoke about. In his opinion, MOL is very closely associated with Gazprom. That's all I'm gonna go on about. And from this point of view, letting an entity who is not known how it will behave on the Polish market, and not in a situation where this entity is in some foreign hands, only in a situation where it is nominally in the Polish hands for the time being, resembles an operation of letting a fox into the hen house. Maybe this fox won't be the chickens at first. He strangled, but you'll never know for sure, because the nature of the fox is just a fox, and it comes from a law like that, so to speak, a pet. I'm getting to the point. I think the controversy and nervous defense of this merger... Because if it were really clear and clear, it wouldn't be these nervous reactions to the bill itself, it was just adopted... the fact that there's a bill, and we disagree or agree with it, it's a natural situation in the legislative process and in parliamentary life. The nervousness of these reactions shows, however, that there is an understatement in the whole matter. And who knows if it's true for those who think this case is sooner or later, even if this merger happens, even if this bill is frozen in the Sejm and will not be put to the vote... And my deep conviction is that if this project were to be proceded in the Seym, I do not know if it would be the majority for rejecting it, because I know the moods of some parliamentarians of Law and Justice who are not delighted and aware of its consequences and the dangers and dangers associated with this merger. And I think that's why this bill is gonna be frozen, and it's gonna stay in the freezer. So that she is not subject to the whole procedure. But it is also important to do what is possible to try to defend our national interests. And that's why this bill, the very fact that we're debating it, the very fact that there were different opinions that could be confronted with reality in the future... Perhaps this will serve something in the future when it turns out that this matter will need to be clarified in the way that such matters are usually explained. So that I think, regardless of the future of this bill, which we are now investigating, and regardless of what happens next with this merger... the bill, which will undoubtedly be adopted in the Senate, and in my opinion it will be frozen in the Sejm. But that doesn't mean there won't be any more. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u379	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogusława Orzechowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u380	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have been listening to this debate for almost two hours, if not longer, and I have the impression that this project was directed to the Senate by real fighters who care about the interests of Poland. But let us remember that the cases of the merger of Orlen and Lotus have been discussed since 2019. At that time it was in the plan to connect Lotus and Orlen, or actually join Lotus to Orlen and work together with both companies. Of course, many were disturbed. Later, the European Union was involved, which decided that the monopoly could not be. Information that MOL is supposed to be a proputinowska company, this is information that circulates in the media. But do you have any evidence of that? I doubt it. On the other hand, the merger of Orlen with Lotus is a merger that certainly interferes with Gazprom. Please consider whether you are not in favour of Gazprom and Putin by taking such a resolution when voting on such a law. During the process of this draft resolution were given the statements of two scientists, the opinions of two scientists. And I'm wondering, are you two or just two? 25 pages of the opinion. Technically... Well, yeah, not necessarily 100%. You can agree with what's written there. You say you act in the interests of Poland, in the interests of Poland and in the interests of Ukraine. And where were you when the Germans blocked the supply of weapons to Ukraine when there was no permission for training? After all, the President of Ukraine asked for training his troops in Germany before the war. Where have you been? You can laugh now, but it's not funny at all. [[It's pathetic.]] Yeah, I do. [[Pathetic, not funny.]] It's pathetic. For you. I'm sure there wouldn't be any vote of objection if the company to be with Orlen was any German company. Nord Stream 1 was accepted, Nord Stream 2 was not denied by you You didn't object to the construction. Nord Stream 2. It is Poland, our government, which has started such actions that will help us at the moment, despite the threat from Russia and the cut off of this gas, to operate independently. Germany is currently dependent on Russia because their gas connections are common. And don't tell me you're in the interest of Poland. This is not an interest of our country, this is not an action that serves all Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u381	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Wiesław Piecha... [[Wojciech.]] Excuse me, Wojciech Piecha. I was thinking about Senator Bogusław, and from here, Wiesław... [[About Boguslav?]] Mr. Wojciech Piecha. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u382	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! I would also like to comment on this, because the merger of Lotus with Orlen leads to very deep divisions here between us. I think this merger is needed. We should build a large energy company, which will be a big player on the European market. Then we will not depend on the Russian market. And I would like to remind you that in 2011 was the idea of privatising Lotus. 53% the shares which remained in the hands of the State Treasury were to be transferred to the entities which would have entered into the tender. That was government policy at the time, Donald Tusk's government. In 2009, he wrote that he expected Minister Grad to accelerate privatisation. He wanted to privatize everything because it was government policy because his budget wasn't tight because there were holes in this budget all the time. Since 2015, we have been pursuing a different policy. Treasury companies are doing well and on the stock exchange they look very solid. It wasn't just supposed to be sold to Lotus, it was supposed to be sold to Grupa Azota. There's a lot of Russian capital involved. Oligarch... [[He participated in this Morawiecki.]] Okay, Morawiecki was involved, but so are you. [[I don't.]] But you were the minister of the environment at the time. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Ladies and Gentlemen...]] Don't disturb me. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka:... this is not a discussion. I'm just gonna say this to the senator who says you're the only one in the media who can hear it and then it looks funny.]] Is that what it looks like? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: You just can't hear this senator who says no to the microphone.]] Good. I'll be in control. And she was gonna speed up the privatisation. We stopped it, and that's good. Right now, there's an opportunity for these companies to merge, Lotus and Orlen. We are trying to create a company that will play a major role in the European market, because it is not only gas or oil, but also chemical products that follow. Gazprom and I signed a gas contract in 2010. 90% We were bringing gas from that direction. We currently produce about 5 billion m3 of gas on the Polish market, through Polish companies, and the rest actually flows to us from the east. Well, right now we have a working gasport and 7.5 billion m3 of this gas we can get by sea. It is more expensive, but unfortunately it is the price for our safety. Because at the moment, Gazprom's spinning of the chicken, as they did with Bulgaria and us, does not cause us to have some turbulence in the gas market in Poland. The gas won't stop flowing. In 2022, Baltic Pipe is due to be surrendered in October, 10 billion m3 of gas will flow to us from Norway. Structure of gas supply to the European Union: 153 billion m3 of gas supply to Gazprom, 75 billion m3 of Norway, then there are smaller producers. These are the most important directions for gas supply to Europe. Gas is a very important energy raw material at the moment. In the 1970s, gas was ignored because it was not used in industry, it was not used for heating buildings. The coal was dominated at the time. I believe that this merger is needed and that the demagogical voices we hear here from the Civic Platform are not justified. You're talking about MOL that MOL is controlled or has any ties to Russian capital. Minister Piotr Woźniak, who was at the committee meeting, stated that he had not been able to find out on the Internet whether or not he had found it in the materials, so that this company was in any way related to Russian capital. Hungary is a specific country because Hungary lies in the middle of Europe, has no access to the sea, cannot so easily diversify oil and gas supplies. Since the 1940's, they have been connected to Russia by pipelines, and they have not developed a structure that would allow the import of oil from other directions or gas from other directions. And that's why it's happening. We are in a very good situation because we have ports, we have the possibility of diversifying supply and oil, and gas, but until now we are bringing in 9 billion m3 of gas, we will bring back LPG, the gas needed to drive cars for some users who have cars with engines adapted to this fuel. And we can't stop this because we can't stop the economy, we can't stop, because then this Ukraine is without a chance if there are any economic problems with us for this kind of reason. We're on the front line. There's a war going on in Ukraine, we deliver weapons, the European Union supplies weapons there, but it's the Ukrainians who fight. Not us so far. But if it were to happen that Ukraine would fall, then at the 1 000 km long border we have Russian soldiers and Belarusian soldiers. What then? How are we gonna defend ourselves? Do we have what? We don't have what. That's the problem. And this merger is a normal business, and it's a good thing that a very large player, which is Aramco, who is an international, global concern, has the right technologies and is practically on the other side of the world, because it's a few thousand kilometers away from us, and doesn't affect our internal policy. Because how? We can diversify these deliveries because we have ports, we have infrastructure that allows it. I'm in favour of rejecting this bill because it's unfavorable. The merger is practically at hand, and we're trying to cut off this hand and we're supposed to be back for four years again wondering if this merger is needed or if it's not needed until this Lotus falls down. We'll be wondering for so long. Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz says this is a bill of good. I say no. I say no, Mr. Marshal. In 2011, you were going to sell this Lotus. If you sold it, today we wouldn't be talking about this bill, Russian oil would come to Maya and Lotus, and you wouldn't be able to stop this stream because it would be in Russian hands. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u383	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u384	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! I have to say that I have listened to this discussion, sometimes I listen to various statements by various politicians of the Civic Platform and I have to say that it is very charming, like the representatives of the political party, which was famous for privatising everything in Poland, today they suddenly shed crocodiles tears and say that they are against the privatisation of Lotus. I was waiting for Marek Borowski to say something, but I don't think your Marshal is there, because it would be such a cherry on a cake, like politicians who privatized so many things in Poland, and politicians from Pomerania, whether within the Freedom Union or later the Civic Platform... After all, there was even such a concept of a pomeranian or liberal privatisation school and indirectly such a guru was there Donald Tusk, a Minister of Property Transformations from Pomerania and then a whole pleiade of politicians, first from the Liberal-Democratic Congress, then from various kinds of changing forms, political parties, but these people were. So it is really adorable that today these people, my colleagues, who in 2013 paradoxically wanted to privatize this Lotus, then headed by Prime Minister Donald Tusk, then president of the Platform, which today says not... I would also like to quote the opinion of Minister David Jackiewicz, who said: "In 2007, when I left the ministry, At that time, he was Deputy Minister of State Treasury, and there were 1 thousand 500 companies of the State Treasury. When I was Minister of State Treasury in 2015, there were 500 companies. 8 years of government Platform, 1 thousand privatized companies of the Treasury. [[Room voices: Bravo, bravo.]] I have to say, it's really cute how you're all here now against privatisation. This has to be recorded, and then it has to be quoted, because I think it's going to come in handy. But, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to calm down the Civic Platform, and the Senators of the Platform, and the non-Senators of the Platform, that Law and Justice are also against privatisation and there will be no privatisation of Lotus. Since 2015, when Law and Justice adopted power, we have not privatized any company of the State Treasury, we have not privatized any company of the State Treasury. Of course, the question is how to effectively manage the property of the State Treasury, how to multiply its value. We have made and are making many transfers, consolidations, which aim to increase the efficiency of asset management, increase its value, and we also want State Treasury companies to contribute to the development of the government's economic policy and this has been happening since 2015. After all, even these non-prescriptive media have created such an index of the PiS company. I disagree with this because there is no such thing, but it shows that even with the unkind media it is impossible to question that in 2014 Lotus probably had 1 billion zlotys, had huge snatches, and today it brings profits! I no longer say what profits Lotus brings. Of course, somebody's gonna say, well, profit is bad, too. Loss is bad, too. Well, we've already gotten used to that whatever the government would do and whatever a minister of law and justice would do, if there's a loss, it's bad, if there's a profit, it's bad too, if there's a big profit, it's worse, if it's small, it's bad too. So we're not worried. And that's kind of one thing, like a general, foreword. Now for the second point: this very strange opinion, which has been attached, a 25-page opinion to the bill, which is probably 1/3 of the A4 card. I, to be honest, when I was at the legislative committee meeting and I listened... I don't remember the authors, I don't want to twist their names, so I'm not gonna pass it on. But they told each other stories for an hour. I could have found out, for example. What doctor wrote her Ph.D.'s opinion on management contracts in the early '90s... I do not know if we paid for this opinion as the Senate Office, but this opinion in a very small way, so to speak, was referring to some solutions to this proposed several-level bill. And already the essence of these statements at the committee meeting and the cherry on the cake was the statement of the gentleman who was probably a co-author of the opinion and who said: we also checked whether this draft law, single-card, was correctly filed in the Senate, according to procedure. Well, really, it's an amazing cover! At the disposal of the Legislative Office, which is permanently available to all senators, certainly no project which does not meet the requirements of the procedures would be allowed to submit. That's also what I'm gonna say, weird. This is repeating certain platformers too. I'm surprised something like this is even ordered by the Senate Office. And if it's still paid, it's all the more weird, to put it mildly. Then why do we need that opinion? You'd have to ask that question. Sometimes it is worth ordering an opinion that will lead to an improvement of the bill, and will bring some solutions. But really ordering a 25-page opinion for a 3-task bill, a simple, novelizing one of the articles, I consider unnecessary. But who's gonna stop a rich man, right? And that's kind of the second line. And the third case, already concerning the proposed law itself, if I may refer. Well, I have to tell you, this project that's, well, to be honest, and to be fair, it's weird, too. Because he's mixing NATO... What does NATO have to do with all this? The North Atlantic Pact is used here to consolidate one of the state-owned enterprises. That's one question. Second doubt. Well, if you want to be against this privatisation, you should have written in this project: well, we're against this privatisation because that's what the Platform colleagues are announcing. Not talk about taking it away for 270 days. And after 270 days? Today I also heard Senator Wadim say, "Well, if the Americans had bought it, we wouldn't be protesting at all." So are you guys for privatisation or against it, or is this the investor you don't like, like, smack or something? No bigos, bigos logically is in this justification which you present. And finally, one more thing. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to repeat the opinion of my colleagues, colleagues and Minister, who spoke at the committee meeting and elsewhere about the difficult situation on the market, and about the 30 refineries that have fallen, about some of the investment challenges we need to address. After all, if not for the decision of the European Commission, which forced the Polish government to sell 30% ... [[That's not true.]] [[Right.]] But, Senator, I would very much like you to... [[That's not true.]] Then we wouldn't sell it. But even if we assume that we have to sell this 30% The refinery, that's by integrating these companies, by building one large multi-energy entity that is formed around Orlen, we will ensure security. No matter what happens in the East, we can be sure of the oil supply, we can be sure of the petrol supply, we can be sure of the energy and gas supply. And that's the goal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u385	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u386	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to refer to a few previous speeches by my fellow senators, in particular to the speech by the senator, who drew our attention to the democratic majority in the Senate, that we did not react that way when the Germans behaved unconvincingly, perhaps too unconvincingly. Yeah, that's what they did. But, Mrs. Senator, the Germans are now supplying Ukraine with heavy weapons, and the Hungarians of Orbán do not pass such weapons through their territory. This also applies to German weapons. That's the small difference. You asked me how we have evidence that MOL is anti-putinist. Of course we know that... [[Proputinowski.]] Proputinowski, of course. All we need is the fact that Orbán is proputinist. This is enough to say that the state-owned MOL company is also a proputinist. There's no doubt about that. [[Gerhard Schröder is also...]] Ask your colleague, former Minister of Economy of the Law and Justice Government. He's been mentioned many times today. He'll tell you if it's a proputinist company or not. One of my colleagues said it was a merger, a connection. Well, beautiful words. But if we wanted to do a merger, we'd say these companies should trade shares. It would have a synergy effect, would have increased the state's energy security, because Lotus would have remained the majority... Actually, the Treasury would have left a majority stake, 53%. This would be, from a security point of view, a solution that would undoubtedly be more advantageous. One senator spoke about this charming procedure during the privatisation process. Well, it was charming, so graceful. This doesn't fit at all the times we've come here to debate. I will remind you that it is 2022, and our neighbour, Ukraine, is at war, was attacked by Putin's regime. These are slightly different circumstances from those of 20 years ago. That's why the senator who said the resolution wasn't enough, that she didn't come out, that she was angry... Yes, a resolution is not enough, and that's why a bill is needed. We want to increase energy security and security of Poland in general, and the resolution would probably implement it to a lesser extent. The legal opinion on such a small bill... The draft law has actually few articles, but it concerns an extremely important matter from the point of view of the state. That's why this opinion is so extensive. I have that opinion in front of me. They didn't write it... [[Water, lots of water.]] This opinion was not written by the dilettators. It was written by the head of the Department of Commercial Law at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Gdańsk, prof. Joanna Kruczalak-Jankowska, one of the most outstanding specialists in trade law in Poland. I think many present ministers or vice ministers have learned from her textbooks. I think that such a good motto of today's discussion has emerged in this debate. It would be said that at a particular time... I'm just reminding everyone that there's a war going on on on our border, that this war isn't over yet, and we really don't know what turn it's going to take. Orbán and Putin are two nephews. Yes. Our eyes are changing geopolitical architecture in Europe, and unfortunately Hungary has become an agent of Russia's influence in the European Union. And this must be strongly emphasized in this room... [[Gerhard Schröder.]] Not only because they did not support the sanctions of a united Europe against Russia, but also because, as I have already said, they block the passage of assistance, including military aid, for the fighting Ukraine. There is also a proverb that makes friends in poverty. Ukraine found this painfully when it seemed that it could count on one of the important countries of the European Union and cannot count on it, because its prime minister says that his enemy and enemy of Hungary is the President of the fighting Ukraine. What more needs to be said about this? It is good that there is a reflection among some representatives of the Law and Justice that political colleagues on this issue, on solidarity with Ukraine, have probably gone a bit overboard and that they represent interests not of the European Union, but of Russia. Because how else do you explain the words of Orbán, who said that Poles want to move the border of the Western world to the border of the Russian world and feel safe if it works? Yes, we think we'll be safer if Ukraine is free and independent and the frontier of the free world is... [[There it is.]] ...at the border of Russia and Ukraine. Yeah, we think so. If you think otherwise, we are in a fundamental dispute about the principles of the Polish state, which you are changing here to many cases. And I think that's what Senator Borusewicz was talking about. It's time for you to withdraw from this foolish decision, because MOL is actually a friend of Russia. This is a company that is a friend of Russian interests in Hungary and Europe. We talked about the fact that the former PGNiG President and the Minister of Economy in Prime Minister Kaczyński's government today openly says that MOL is a pass to Gazprom and Łukoil in Poland and that this is what will happen, and that this will be the question addressed to ministers at the committee meeting yesterday. I wasn't a participant, I was looking at it remotely, I was listening to it. There was no reply to the relevant terms and conditions of the agreement as to whether MOL could sell to another company the next day on very favourable terms or not. These are very key questions. And these questions were not answered at the committee meeting, nor today, and we Senators are acting in the public interest, not in the interests of one or another company, and we have the right to ask whether a company which, from the point of view of state security, is of key importance, is sold according to the Polish state's right or not. We don't think it is. This discussion and these vague responses of ministers only strengthen us in this. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to repeat the threads. I think you have said many times and your publicists that you would like more Budapest in Warsaw. This bill we are trying to counter and prevent the situation in which there will be more Moscow in Warsaw and more Russia in Poland. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. History will settle all those who at this difficult time for Poland, Europe, the European Union have behaved in a way that may raise doubts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u387	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Five minutes, I take it?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u388	Yes, yes, of course. I'll try less. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to address Senator Piecha. Mr. Senator, thank you very much. I've done it a few times before, and now I'm doing it too. That you set an example of how we should talk. We may disagree in many areas, we may use harsh arguments, but... you use arguments related to knowledge and experience in your statements. And that's an example of how we should talk. I don't agree with this part... Mr. Senator didn't hear my entire speech. We're not questioning, Mr. Senator, just to be clear, the fact of the merger itself, we're just talking about making it work for the benefit. How to Do Privatization The sale of a part of the company is a privatisation, however you call it. And if you do privatisation like this and you do what Senator Rybicki said... We think it's dangerous. And that's why we're trying to convince you that this isn't how you make transformations, this isn't how you do privatisations. That's what privatization does. I apologize for defining the authors of this privatisation. Losers who do not know how real privatisation is carried out in the modern world, raising capital, bringing in a real investor, one whose influence we have, with whom we have no relationship with Russia, etc. Mr. Senator, let's argue, but let's vote on the arguments and vote on the same way as who's gonna convince who. But what Senator Orzechowska said... the senator has already said part of it, I'll just say yes. Senator, it's really sad how you do things like this in the Senate. Saying we're gonna defend some kind of German option... Can you turn off the TVPiS and turn on your thinking? I ask you to do so, for the sake and seriousness of the Senate, to turn off this propaganda of the PiS and to talk about what you have to say in the sense of your knowledge, etc. I'm asking you very much. That's a German option you might be looking for, but somewhere else. Okay? This is such a heartfelt request. And two words about what Senator Krzysztof Frost said. I'm happy to tell you yes. If you were in the debate, you'd hear what we're talking about. And you just came to the end of your speech and said what you know. Well, you haven't referred in any way to what we're talking about here, Senator. Once again, I want you to know: we are in favour of a fair conversation, for mergers, privatisations, transformations, but... I personally believe that what concerns the functioning of the economy must be in some balance, and perhaps even here should be a slight advantage of private capital over state capital. I will not lecture here because you, as a well-educated man, often speak here. But there's one thing I'd like to draw your attention to, because you don't know, you probably don't know. You said we privatized a thousand companies. And you know why, among other things? Apart from the elements concerning modern management... A private company is something that carries know-how, new capital, etc. But one of the important elements is that you had a thousand less companies to fill your people with, uneducated, unprepared for management. Because private capital won't allow a man with no idea of management to enter and manage the company. And this is an important element: the least political impact in the economy. Strategic things, yes. And the strategic thing is the merger we're talking about. We want this merger, just do it transparently, clearly, for the benefit and elimination of what Senator Rybicki was talking about. Finally, I would like to address Senator Czerwinski. First of all, Mr. Senator. I know that this sounds strange to you, but the place to discuss solutions is, among other things. University. It is at the university that discusses openly, uncompromisingly. That's why there was a discussion, as I understand it. Your marshal was, I wasn't. At the University of Technology, where scientists also talked about it. I know it's weird for the PiS, 'cause where do you have to talk? Well, the president's, somewhere in the corners, the decision, and then we push. We speak openly, among others. In college. ♪ And finally ♪ I'm not gonna move any more things, though I've written down more... [[Timer signal]] You know what? I am sorry, as you say to Marshal Borusewicz, the icon of Polish democracy, so, the icon of Polish democracy, as you say, that Senator Marshal Borusewicz does not make any more proposals, because we do not know who he is lobbying for and who he is lobbying for, and if we see a list of people and companies who are in Gdansk, it may turn out to be something. You know, it's so unelegant not to use harsh words in the Polish Senate that if I were in your place, I would be ashamed to burn because of how you turned to Marshal Borusewicz. The fact that we're going to differ is fine, but please don't suggest... You may suggest this to me because you can't insult me, but suggesting such things to the marshal. Borusewicz is simply not elegant at least. Which is why I'm asking you, sir, not to do it again if you have any honor in you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u389	Thank you very much. You're welcome to take... [[Mrs. Marshal, if I may, it's in correction mode. Well, that's okay.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u390	As for the fact that you are not able to offend me, I agree, and as for understanding the statements about the conference at the University of Gdansk, I will say that its meaning was directly opposed to the one you tried to tell us here. Just listen to me more carefully. [[I'll try.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u391	Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Piecha for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the suggestions about this unfortunate MOL, which appeared here during the discussion about the merger of Orlen with Lotus. I would like to stress that Hungary is still in the Union, that no one has ever discharged them from the Union, that is, a normal country that operates in the Union. MOL as a capital group has no Russian capital in its shareholder. [[Voice from the room: No...]] Besides, gas stations are petrol stores, diesel stores, they don't have much importance on the market. On these stations will be delivered fuel from Orlen, yes, from Lotus, from Orlen. Nobody's gonna drive gas to those stations in Budapest, that's all. I'd just like to stress that. I understand that Hungary's behaviour is so, not different, we may disagree, but German politicians... e.g. Gerhard Schröder is still a member of the SPD and is on the payroll of Gazprom or Rosnieft. So did the French Prime Minister, former French Prime Minister Fillon, and so were the Austrian Chancellors. There's a lot of examples like that. What are these? Are these normal citizens? No, these are very important pieces of this puzzle. And let's not insult everyone around us because he's Hungarian because he's like that. Everyone has a place in this puzzle. Gas is still being pressed from Russia to Europe. At the moment, we were turned off on Jamal, on the Jamal pipeline, only that only applies to Poland, not Germany. Russian gas to Germany is normally pressed through this pipeline. German energy is dependent on this gas because it has energy based on RES and gas, they have large gas power plants that supply electricity to farms and German industry. You can't stop it, you can't stop it. Germany cannot afford to suffer economically, because then Ukraine and Europe will suffer. Well, let's just calm this discussion down a little bit. And to get back to this merger... If we stopped her right now, what would those who signed those letters of intent say? What will the Aramco Group say? That we're serious or that we're not serious? The senators want to stop it. Because we're senators. And we have no knowledge of that. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u393	Thank you. Please, senator nutchowska five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u394	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! And we're dealing with hypocrisy again. It's not what you say, it's what you do. You are sensitive to the fact that it is said that you support the Germans, that the Germans are now helping in Ukraine... [[I support Germany.]] But if the Germans... [[We support good neighbors. We support good neighbors.]] ...from the beginning, when there was a request for armament, they followed Ukraine's request, it's possible that this war would be gone. Two months waiting for Ukraine to bleed out. Yes, there's a supply of weapons at the moment. It was bragging that 280 rockets would be delivered to Ukraine. It is only forgotten to say that these 280 rockets were already ordered and maybe even paid for by Ukraine. But such benefactors who deliver continue to use Russian gas, continue to pay for this gas and continue to maintain Putin. The fact that Senator Solomon Sorry, Blackbeard. Sometimes other senators can laugh, insult them... I don't think they can insult me either. He insults himself. Because it's not the first time, or, I'm sure, the last time. I'm sure I'll vote against this bill. You're saying you'd be in favor of a merger. Bullshit. You were against the merger. That is why it was later the European Union's action and taking the right decisions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u395	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u396	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'll skip the manners you have, Senator Blackbay, insulting other senators. Apparently, it's his charm. Although it shouldn't happen in the Senate. And I hope that one day your marshal, as he will lead, in the future, will intervene as the senators are offended. That's by the way. I'll say one thing. The fact that half-truths, lies, and ridiculousness have fallen into this room is simply not in the mind. The truth was the last thing you tried to talk about here. I hope that the government will implement this consolidation. I hope that this will create a multi-energy concern that will protect us, us, as Poles, and also you, as we used to hope that you will not come to the government for as long as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u397	Thank you very much. And I would like to point out, Mr. Senator, that I am watching the language of the debate, and so is one side and the other side using harsh words. If it doesn't cross the boundaries of culture, then I don't respond, and that's the rule. So don't talk about it here. You're welcome, Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u398	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I will now focus on Hungary and MOL, quite precisely. As far as MOL is concerned, the largest holding of shares is held by the Hungarian State, and I will start with who owns it. By means of their own controlled foundations, 30.49% has a Hungarian country, in addition to 1,6% In addition, it is so-called. Gold action that allows you to fully control this enterprise. In the internal market the MOL Group is a leading... actually a monopoly in the supply of natural gas by high-pressure gas pipelines to domestic customers, including distribution operators and from abroad, in the so-called. transit services through Hungary. The company FGSZ is established for internal trading, which has acquired operator status. The FGSZ is a subsidiary of MOL. The natural gas seller is a state-owned MVM company that meets 100% individual customers and 50% commercial customers. In September 2021, the company signed a 15-year agreement with Gazprom Export on natural gas imports. So this is a company that is directly a company of the Treasury. In February 2022, three weeks before Russia's aggression in Ukraine, Hungary signed, and this was agreed by Prime Minister Orbán with Russian President Putin, an additional contract for additional natural gas volumes. That is the custom... otherwise, that is the rule in Hungary that contracts of this type negotiate the government, and then point to the company that has this contract to sign and implement. Hungary imports gas in 90% Russian, they import about 12 billion m3, they consume about 10 billion m3, so 2 billion m3 they sell somewhere further. In the autumn of 2021, the construction of the gas link from Serbia to Hungary, a fragment of the Turkish Stream pipeline leading from Russia, from Novorosia via the Black Sea, Turkey, Bulgaria, Serbia, Hungary to Austria, was completed. At the cost of over EUR 65 million, FGSZ, a subsidiary of MOL's daughter, financed the interconnector with the capacity of 6 billion m3 of Serbia and also financed the second interconnector at the border with Austria. In this way, Russian gas pumped into the Turkish Stream pipeline on the Black Sea Coast reaches Hungary and bypasses Ukraine, and through the MOL pipeline further, to Austria, will flow, there is finished this pipeline. And this is a pipeline that has been bypassing Ukraine from the south of Europe and was built to close this south side, because the north side is closed by Nord Stream. And finally, is this connection clear? What does this mean in the long term? Prime Minister Orbán, Prime Minister of the Hungarian Government, is strongly opposed to any energy sanctions, i.e. holding back or reducing the supply of gas and oil from Russia, so it is well known that he is looking at this in the long term, that he wants to pursue it further. Hungary has been working very closely with Russia for a long time, not just on gas and oil. Rosatom is expanding the Paks nuclear power plant, placing 2 new blocks. The loan is Russian, which means it's done for Russian money. And it's continued. Hungary has been blocking the meetings of the Council of Ukraine for a long time. In addition, they give citizenship to Hungarians living in the so-called. neighbouring countries. Well, not only do they give them citizenship, there are about 1 million Hungarians who live outside Hungary, in neighbouring countries, and have Hungarian citizenship. But they also demand territorial autonomy. And that concerns Ukraine. In my view, Hungary is the second revisionist state in Europe after Russia, the second revisionist state. This is their policy, especially towards Ukraine at the moment. And this is not just about economic relations with Russia. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Marshal...]] It is also a policy that they have been pursuing for a long time, a policy that Orbán wants to build a great Hungary. He has entered the Crown of St. Stephen into the Constitution, which means those lands which are now outside Hungary, which Hungary lost after the Treaty of Trianon. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Marshal...]] So it's just business cooperation. I had a conflict with President László Kövér, President of the Hungarian Parliament, when in 2014, after his first aggression against Ukraine, he wanted to put in a joint statement a message which, of course, was a Russian message for me. It was a demand for Ukraine to respect the rights of minorities, and Russia to do this aggression, using this argument that in Ukraine the Russian minority is treated badly, badly, etc., etc., etc. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Marshal, time is up.]] And that's the end of it. He was very strict with me to agree to this record. I did not agree, even though he claimed that he would not sign any statements on behalf of the Visegrad Group, which was sitting on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u399	Thank you very much. Senator Marcin Bosacki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u400	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to say that I'm going to speak briefly, and my speech will be almost exclusively made out of quotes. We argued here and agreed for a few hours to answer a few key questions. What's the deal for? Why is the Polish government selling Lotus to MOL Group? What is Russia's interest in this? What does this mean for the interests of fighting Ukraine? And finally what does this mean for the national interest of Poland? Well, the answers to all these questions are very simple and very short. Yesterday they were presented at the committee meeting by the Minister in the Governments of Kazimierz Marcinkiewicz and Jarosław Kaczyński Piotr Wozniak. During her reign, Prime Minister Szydło and Morawiecki was the head of the state-owned company PGNiG. The first question: what changes on the Polish energy market the acquisition of Lotus assets by MOL? This transaction changes this market very significantly and to our Polish disadvantage. This is a quote from Minister Wozniak:.MOL is a genuine long-term business partner and ally of Gazprom. The sin of politicians in Poland is that we invited a hard ally of Putin to Poland. Question two: what does this transaction give Russia, what is it for? Lukoil started in Poland from dozens of not the best locations of the station, now he has a chance at several hundred stations. Of course, it will be MOL, not Łukoil, but it doesn't matter to Russia. It is important to be aware that for Russia, for which MOL is an ally, raw materials are politics, not business. Already in 2003, the Russian Federation officially stated in its energy strategy by 2020 that energy raw materials are its policy tool It's not economic, it's foreign. End of quote. Question three: what is this transaction threatening Ukraine? Mr Wozniak's reply again: "Hungary has become an ally of Gazprom, the Russian Federation, in the plan to control Ukraine. Hungary and the Hungarian MOL have thus become Putin's allies. This is the grave sin of the Hungarians They played together with Gazprom so that Russia could take over Ukraine. End of quote. Finally, the fundamental question for our discussion and for the draft law: in whose interest is the merger and the sale of very serious national assets to the Hungarian MOL, which Gazprom and Russia are behind? Here's the quote: First of all, this merger is against market rules. Secondly, it threatens the energy security of the country. High Izbo, according to the opinion of the Minister of Economy in the government of Jarosław Kaczyński, this merger serves only and exclusively the interests of Russia. Think on the right hand side of this merger, which you have been defending and protesting against our bill, the interests behind which you stand, do you really want to defend Russian interests? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u401	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators Alexander Swed and Benjamin Godyla made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. Legislative proposals were submitted by Senator Czerwiński, Senator Martynowski and Senator Swede. The discussion is closed. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mrs. Marshal is a formal motion.]] Please, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u402	I request that the committees be given a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft law still at this Senate meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u403	Thank you very much. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There are no votes against. The Senate has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Act amending the Act on pension provision of professional soldiers and their families, Act on pension provision of police officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Marshal's Guard, State Security Service, State Fire Department, Customs and Carboy Service and their families and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 688 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 688 A and 688 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on National Defence, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u404	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! On 21 April 2022, a meeting was held between the Joint Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the review of the Act on Retirement Supply of Professional Soldiers and their Families, the Act on Retirement Supply of Police Officers... Maybe I won't read the names of all these institutions, you just mentioned them to the marshal. At the meeting, Minister Maciej Wąsik presented the principles of the law. The aim is to include the so-called pension service. periods of civil service of officials and professional soldiers entered into service for the first time after 1 January 1999 and before 1 October 2003, who have at least 25 years of service on the date of retirement. During these four years, a uniform pension has been settled by the Social Security Office. For these years to be included in the service period, trade unions have been fighting for years. Retirement for such soldiers under this law will increase by 1,3% the basis of dimension for each year preceding service. Minister Wąsik admitted that the expectations of trade unions are greater, but, as he said, this is a step in the right direction, and every officer will be able to decide for himself whether he wants to benefit from a ZUS pension or a uniform pension. Sławomir Siwy, President of the Polish Trade Union, recalled that during several years of discussions between the government and the trade union partners, they gradually abandoned their demands and in 2018 the government committed itself to proposing a solution to the problem. The trade unionists have advocated, among others. reducing the requirement of 25 years of service to 20 years and applying a uniform base index to calculate the pension dimension of 2.6% Not 1.3%. I have tabled 7 amendments to the Act, which are so that not only those who have 25 years of service can benefit from these changes, but also those who do not have so many years of service, but who have reached 55 years of age at work. This may apply to a large group of officers, since many of them are already retired, especially those directly affected by the law, i.e. employed before 2003, i.e. 20 years ago. Minister Wąsik asked for amendments not to be accepted, arguing this at a high cost of implementing the law. Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz informed that the cost of making changes will be PLN 873 million in 10 years. He couldn't tell if the cost would increase after the amendments were adopted, but he dropped the amount of PLN 1.5 billion. Sławomir Siwa questioned this amount, suggesting that it could be even 10 times smaller, because you have to count not the cost of entire pensions, but only the difference between previous and new pensions, and that not everyone in this law will be able and willing to benefit. The Legislative Office did not submit any comments to the draft. In the vote, 8 senators voted in favour of the amendments and 7 opposed them. 14 senators voted in favour of the amendment bill, 1 senator opposed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u405	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u406	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, a report on the review of the Act on the Retirement Supply of Professional Soldiers and their Families, the Act on Retirement Supply of Police Officers, ABW, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service... etc. Let me not read this long title for the rest of my life. It is contained in Senate printing No 688. As Senator Jerzy Wcisła, who is speaking before me, outlined the main principles of this law, I will limit myself to the discussion that took place yesterday at the Senate Family Committee meeting. And so is Minister Wąsik present, and now, at the committee's meeting, he presented these principles of the bill that Senator Wcisła spoke about. As far as the senators are concerned, I took the liberty of asking, on the one hand, Minister Wąsik made it clear that the intention of these solutions was that the officers should not retire earlier. The point is to take advantage of their professional experience. In this connection, I asked what incentive system the Ministry was proposing for officers... young people or older people, with life experience, to join the ranks of the police. Especially since the Minister has informed us that at the moment the police, the largest uniform formation, has exceeded the number... of more than 100,000 members, and that this is the first time since 1989. Yeah, that's what I asked. That was the first line. I also pointed out a second point. The aim was to include Customs Inspection staff in these arrangements. It was a formation in 1997 and 2002 which had police powers. In accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Court of K 39/13, if the formation concerned has police powers, it should be treated as a uniform service. Meanwhile, all those who have worked in this formation over the years and then moved to the implementation departments and preparatory proceedings of the tax departments, the tax authorities, the Ministry of Finance, these years of work are not accounted for. Just as they don't count those years of their next service in financial institutions. I have tabled an amendment here. This is an amendment that currently affects about 400 people in Poland. They would be covered by this amendment. The point is that the former Customs Inspection staff and their years of service should also be considered as years of uniform service. Another amendment was tabled by Senator Jacek Bury. The point is that years are calculated according to the indicator that Senator Jerzy Wcisła was talking about, i.e. those who were e.g. before they joined the police. officials or farmers. Those who did business are not included in the years of service. Senator Bure's amendment in part allows these years to be added up to that time. Senator Wcisła, who was present at our committee meeting, stated that Minister Wąsik spoke a lot about the compromise, while Senator Wcisła saw this compromise more on the part of the social and trade unions than on the part of the Ministry. He also referred to the amendment concerning the fact that if someone is not in service for 25 years, then the alternative could be taken into consideration when they were 55 years old. Senator Orzechowska stated that it was a good compromise, a good bill, and made a proposal to adopt a law without amendment. On the social side, he spoke as he himself introduced himself, Mr Andrzej Wielgus, expert on the union side. He felt that such arrangements had to be put in place so that as many years as possible before the service could be added to the service period, which would allow for a longer stay in the service, and that this should also apply to those who started the service after 2013, i.e. according to the new rules. There was some doubt, because Mr Wielgus presented himself as a representative of the trade union, and the Minister said that he had not yet been able to determine whether there were other representatives of the union at the legislative stage who had signed their participation in these legislative work. You also spoke to Sławomir Koniuszy from the Independent Self-Governmental Police Union. He called for this famous article to be deleted. 15, and that 3 years before police service count not according to 1.3% and 2.6%. None of the senators of this proposal for an amendment tabled by Mr Koniusz has taken up. On the other hand, the customs representative stated that he supported the amendments I had tabled concerning the Customs Inspection, advocated the solutions that Senator Wcisła represented, and called for the removal of the article. 15a. Minister Wąsik spoke against the amendments tabled, arguing that if we had accepted this solution for Customs Inspection, we would have done some breach in the system and thus, for example. The city guard could also be included in the uniform service. As far as economic activity is concerned, the Minister stated that if such activity was defrauded, it is added, but not those forms of work which were not once associated with the payment of contributions to the Social Security Office. The Legal Office has stated that the amendment by Senator Bure is substantially out of the scope of the Act, and that my law is to a certain extent likely to have a subjective relationship with the provisions of the Act. There was also a question of what system solution should be proposed if the article was deleted. 15a, which is of a systemic nature. As far as the vote is concerned, Senator Orzechowska's motion to adopt the bill without amendments gained 3 votes in favour, 4 senators voted against and 1 abstention. Amendments tabled by me: 5 votes in favour, 1 against, 2 senators abstained. Senator Bure's amendments: 5 votes in favour, 2 against, 1 abstention. The entire bill was adopted unanimously by the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u407	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Skurkiewicz wanted to take the floor in corrective mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u408	Yes, Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much. Only briefly, by correcting the presentation of the report of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. The Senator-rapporteur referred to my statement in a vague manner, because I did not speak about all the services; perhaps it is necessary to put this on the record that Mr Senator participated remotely in the committee meeting. As a representative of the Minister of National Defence present at the committee meeting, I informed that in the ten years' perspective this amendment will cost the budget of the Ministry of National Defence PLN 186 million. I am not fully aware of the services of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. As I understand it, Minister Wąsik has presented the information in detail in this regard. Hence my correction, because here it was quite imprecisely defined. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u409	Thank you very much. No further questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? The Minister doesn't express that desire. Anything, Mr Minister, the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator George Wcisla. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u410	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The fundamental principle of law, but also of financial systems, should be universality. This also applies to pension rights. There are, of course, situations that justify separate from the general principles of treatment. This applies e.g. uniformed services which require workers to be highly mentally resistant and physically fit. There is a far-reaching public agreement that those who wear uniforms use weapons and must be prepared to make risky decisions, obtain pension rights from others and allow them to live peacefully. But there is no reason for us to apply different rules for obtaining pension rights among the various uniformed services, so that we treat a firefighter, a police officer, a soldier, a border officer or an intelligence agent or counterintelligence differently, and especially that we treat those officers who started their service before 1999 differently than those who started it, for example. in 2004 For such equality against the law, uniformed unions have been fighting for many years. It goes on, among other things. the removal of the effects caused by Article. 15a Act on Retirement Supply, treating the service period from January 1999 to 1 October 2003 as civil servants... In 2018, the government and trade unions signed an agreement in which the government committed to solve this problem, i.e. to propose equalisation of uniform pensions. And this draft amendment to the law is to be the implementation of this agreement. Unfortunately, although it gives some profits, it does not solve the problem, for example. The introduction of an obligation to reach 25 years of service excludes a large number of officers from the operation of this law, including in particular those already retired. 'Cause how are they supposed to serve 25 years in uniform now that they're retired? This is why it was proposed that, in addition to the condition of 25-year internship, one more person should appear in the Act: or achieve 55 years of age. This will make them the beneficiary of this law. In our opinion Senators who support the amendment I tabled are a compromise decision. We had a request to make amendments much further along the lines of repealing the controversial article. 15a without looking at the financial consequences of this decision. However, we felt that social concessions were a value to be recognised. We expect the same from the government. We believe that four years of discussion and commitment by the government, this government, is enough to expect a fair settlement. Especially since the union side, as I have shown, has greatly reduced its expectations. I would add that, even though the discussion lasts so long and the law has already been examined in the Sejm, government representatives still cannot tell what the concrete effects of this amendment would be. I ask that the law be adopted out of respect for the State's obligations towards certain professional groups and their legitimate expectations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u411	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that the following senators have made their speech in the discussion to the minutes: Senator Aleksander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Robert Mamytow, Artur Dunin, Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Janusz Gromek, Mariusz Gromko. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to speak after the discussion? You're welcome. Please take the floor of a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u412	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. This law has been overworked, I hope, quite carefully at two committee meetings: at the joint committee meeting and the second committee meeting. I wasn't going to speak if it wasn't for the senator's appearance. I can't agree with the idea that this isn't a compromise. Or that these changes should go on. The problem, Mr. Senator, was raised in 2003. After 2003 there were many formations, including eight years of government of your formation, when this problem was visible and no one, Mr. Senator, fixed it. It was only our government that leaned on it. Speaking very clearly with the unionists, we felt that a compromise should be made. I would like to assure you that this compromise has been accepted. Today, if trade unionists say whether this law is to enter into force or be rejected, if amendments are not accepted, they will say: no, we want this law, because this is something that solves a problem, it settles a certain question concerning the promise given in 1999, which was abolished in 2003. We're talking about exactly four years, because these people were promised it, and that right was taken from them. That's why we're dealing with this problem. And extending this problem to all officers... Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you that the MSWiA Pension Plant is currently PLN 11 billion of the annual budget, and it was probably about half of it 10 years ago. It's a lot of money, because uniform pensions, quite rightly so, are much higher than Zusian pensions. Therefore, in agreeing to some solutions, we must also remember about a balance. We can't give certain rights to one group too much... There was indeed an injustice here, and we are dealing with it, of course, to the extent to which we leverage it as a budget. This bill in this dimension is for 10 years, if I remember correctly, PLN 850 million. That's a lot of money. There can be no charge to the government that the government has not assessed the value of the proposed amendment, Senator. Really, finding these things isn't a matter of 1 day, 2 hours or 15 minutes, it's a huge number of vectors, data. [[Four years...]] Mr. Senator, your formation has ruled for eight years and this subject has not been taken up. That's why we decided to do it. We did it in consensus with the trade unions because we're talking to them. Sometimes we disagree, sometimes we argue, sometimes we leave a different approach to certain issues, but sometimes... more often than less often we get along because we talk to them. And this bill is the result of an agreement with the trade unions. The agreement on which the Minister of the Interior and all union headquarters signed, together with of course the Solidarity mentioned here by one of the senators. Therefore, I ask the High Senate not to accept these amendments. It's a matter of responsibility. It's a matter of responsibility. We know that such far-reaching changes will be very expensive, but we are not even able to determine these costs. I'm asking the Senate to accept this bill without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u413	Thank you very much, Minister. In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals, but the committees made different proposals. I ask the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the law I would like to remind you that this draft has been submitted by the Legislative Commission and is included in print No. 581, and the committee's report In print No 581 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u414	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Report from the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, which met twice, on 10 February and 5 April, on amendments to the Law on Penal Code of 581. The purpose of the amendment to the Act is to clarify in the Criminal Code the rules governing compulsory treatment or forced rehabilitation of convicted persons who have been found to be addicted to alcohol, narcotic drugs and psychoactive substances, and who are convicted of a crime against sexual liberty and morals committed in connection with sexual preference disorders. The draft was originally intended to be the execution of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, but the scope of the amendments was extended during the work. Five opinions were received at the meeting on 10 February, including from the Ministry of Justice, requesting that work on the amendment of the Article be discontinued. 117 laws, which are justified by the Ministry's work on amending the entire implementing criminal code, including Article. 117 which is the subject of the joint committee's work. In addition, the Ministry's representative authoritarianly stated that their project was simply better, which caused considerable confusion among the senators. However, it was decided to work on the draft committee. The Commission took note of the objectives of the government project, some of which were identical to the proposals of our committee, others were included in the project. It was also decided to announce a break in order to give time to discussions with the government party, to propose a further procedure and to make it possible to decide whether we are still working on the project or not, leaving the initiative of the government party. On 4 April, the committees returned to the project process. Unfortunately, in the two months between the meetings, the Ministry of Justice has not submitted any opinions to the committees or legislators. The draft itself contains cases which raised concerns by the Constitutional Tribunal and additional solutions, including those which are recognised by the government. I can present these assumptions, but they are quite clearly specified in the project, so if necessary, I will present them. The committees first accepted the amendments and then the draft law: there were 14 votes in favour, 3 senators abstained and 3 votes against. I would add, High Senate, that the argument for the project was that the work on the government project, on the revision of the entire implementing penal code, is only at the stage of inter-ministerial consultation and it is not known whether - And if so, when? The project will go to the Sejm. And if he goes there, then the Sejm, having our draft changes, will decide whether . and to what extent To implement a major senate project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u415	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized Senator Ewa Matecka to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u416	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, in your report, you referred to the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, but the opinion was also presented by the Minister of Health. Was this opinion mentioned in the committee? She was positive, but the Minister of Health made one point. Was this opinion mentioned at the committee meeting? What's the point? And did you, at the committee meeting, possibly refer to this comment?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u417	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u418	Yes, the Ministry of Health has also presented its opinion. The National Judicial Council and the Ministry of Justice... the National Judicial Council has not made any comments, and the Ministry of Health has made one comment that such a person should be examined by an expert psychiatrist and psychologist prior to the decision on compulsory treatment. And this remark was accepted by the Legislative Bureau and is in the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u419	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u420	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Ministry's draft is now at the stage of inter-ministerial arrangements, in the next week it will be held by the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers. This project comprehensively regulates the situation we are talking about right now. The Constitutional Tribunal judgment of 11 March 2021 SK 9/18 will be implemented there. And here are the three points that the senator has already mentioned: the first are the conditions, the second is the term, the third is the challenge... It's all in our project. But, Senator, the ministry project is just better. This is not the authoritarian opinion of the Ministry, but it is the opinion of the Ombudsman, who said in his position, in conclusion, that both projects carry out the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 11 March 2021, but in his view the ministerial project contains more important issues and guarantee standards, which is why it agrees with the solutions proposed in the ministerial project. Therefore, the authority of the Ombudsman plus that our project is already at a far-reaching stage in the inter-ministerial consultation, and in a moment it will be under session of the Sejm, the Council of Ministers will accept it, we trust that next month... We will discuss this here in this Chamber, therefore I ask you not to work on the article. 117, as the Ministry project is better and comprehensively regulates these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u421	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u422	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, as far as the Ombudsman is concerned, in fact, in the impact assessment we have this opinion, here I confirm. But I'd like to ask if at the stage... Because, as I understand it, this project... I would like to ask, in general, about this project, which the State, as Ministry, is preparing. Because the Ministry of Health, in its opinion on the project in question, in which it assessed in principle the solutions proposed in the amended Article. 117, no, it also stated that the introduction on the part of the court of the obligation to consult the opinion of a psychologist before the decision is given would not ensure that the objective indicated by the designer is properly achieved, because in such proceedings the opinion should be psychiatric and psychological and should be issued by a doctor in the field of psychiatry together with a psychologist or a specialist in addiction psychotherapy. I understand that this issue will also be raised in your project.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u423	Thank you, Senator. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u424	Yes, sir. Thank you so much for that question. The key issue is that when a situation requires special messages, it should be the opinion of experts. We are dealing with a situation where the Code of Criminal Enforcement is applied to a convicted person, but to a person who is not yet convicted, at the stage of proceedings, the Code of Criminal Procedure in Article. 193 indicates the obligation to consult an expert when there is a need to establish, for example, issues related to mentality or sexual preference disorders. And it's all in the Code of Criminal Procedure. If the Code of Criminal Procedure applies to a person who is not yet convicted, who is yet subject to presumption of innocence, and the rules explicitly state that the criminal procedure is applied accordingly to the implementing criminal code, i.e. to a person already convicted by a final conviction against whom the presumption of innocence does not apply... Therefore, we, as the Ministry, believe that the inclusion in the Senate project of an obligation to consult an expert on any matter, to call on these experts, to interrogate them regardless of whether such consultation of an expert is justified or not justified... After all, this is not about the issue, as I mentioned here, the question of mentality, but about alcohol addiction. That's one thing. Secondly, it's not about a person's alleged innocence, it's about being convicted. Whether it is necessary or not to call an expert will be determined by the court. Therefore, reaching out to such an institution is excessive, unnecessarily prolonging the procedure, is at the moment unnecessary formalism, for the reasons I have spoken of. It's about a convicted person, not a presumed innocent person, first of all, and second of all, a person who doesn't have to be insane at all, but is addicted to alcohol. And addiction to alcohol is something completely different than the issue of mentality or insanity. And that's why we're obviously solving this. As in court, you apply the rules in criminal proceedings, you can apply the same rules here, call this expert, interrogate him if we see the need to do so. But there are a lot of people who are addicted to alcohol who are perfectly aware of what they are doing and are not insane. And I don't see any reason why I should question an expert in every case just in case. Unless it's for the judge's alibi. Yes, there is a problem. It's no matter what the discussion's about. That too many experts are called to trial just in case. And that's why these trials last as long as they last. Because judges are afraid to take responsibility for the outcome of the trial, they prefer, on the basis of spychology, to ask an expert just in case. And we have experts in matters of defamation, in various minor matters they are called and questioned. And the judge later is limited only to rewriting the expert's opinion. He says that's what the expert said, and so do I. So, well, let's not go this way. Not every case needs an expert. Where the court finds... The judge also takes responsibility for the outcome of the trial. And the highest expert is the judge himself. As the Supreme Court has said. Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u425	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator George Wright, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u426	Thank you very much. The opinion of senate legislators on this subject, which you have now spoken about, is quite different, Minister. Recourse to the Penal Code, including Article. 193, does not oblige experts to participate in any situation. This opinion was presented at the meeting. But that's what I'm leaving without comment right now. You said the Ministry of Justice project was better than the one the Senate proposed. I understand you're referring to an initial project, not an initial project. And tell me if you've noticed that many of your solutions have been implemented into this project and are in it. And maybe you'll recall the ones that are in your project and were adopted in the draft committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u427	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u428	Yes. Thank you very much. Indeed, we are pleased that you have listened to the opinion, among others. ombudsman. And what are the elements, here we go. You entered treatment and rehabilitation at the very beginning as a conjunction, but this is about treatment or rehabilitation. And for that, among others. also paid attention to the Ombudsman. So it's a functionator change. That's one thing. Secondly, the question of the once-in-a-lifetime application of this type of measure. We know that for people who are addicted to alcohol, sometimes single treatment is not enough, multiples are needed. And here we really didn't limit it. You've reduced it. And it's a good thing you brought in... So to answer the senator's question, yes, indeed, and here rightly... Next, the prisoner's involvement. Neither did you predict the involvement of the convicted person in the initial project, and this is a fundamental issue for the person concerned to take part in the meeting. So in these matters you have taken our comments into account, very rightly, I am glad. Nevertheless, I stress: regarding the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure... They're applied to the executive criminal code. And if the judge sees that there will be a need for expert advice, he has a duty to do so. Art. 193 clearly indicates: if you see, Judge, that something requires special news, you cannot refuse to appoint an expert. At this point in time, this would be a procedural failure which would result in the annulment of the judgment. It's a legal line from a long time ago. E.g. no such expert opinion shall be replaced by a medical certificate; no witnesses of such expert opinion shall be replaced. So it's very important. Yeah, well... But also, on the other hand, you can't fire a baby with a bath, which is to go in the direction in which you went, i.e. in any case, to appoint an expert, to block the process, e.g. Because a person is addicted to alcohol. Well, so what if it is? She's full of sense. The judge sees she's sane. And there's no problem with the expert. Why call this expert, listen to him, stall him, multiply the costs? After all, we aim to reduce this unnecessary judicial administration, we aim to make these processes faster so that citizens can wait less for the outcome of the process. And you want to add further responsibilities, just in case. That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u429	Thank you very much. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u430	Minister, I will not argue, but I will just ask you: why didn't the Ministry of Justice discuss these two projects during the two months we have sought?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u431	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u432	Mr. Senator, I'm not exactly the person directly responsible for that project. You are Minister Michał Woś. Today I am replacing the Minister and I am trying to explain in the best possible way the idea, the history of these projects. We have put this in a written position, and today I am supplementing it in this meeting. I think this meeting also has a great educational value: we can meet, talk, compare these projects. I don't see anything wrong with us meeting here today and talking. For me it is a great pleasure and an honor to be able to discuss this important issue with you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u433	Thank you very much, Minister, also for those kind words. Senator Kwiatkowski is another senator who wants to take part in this substantive discussion by asking, I stress, a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u434	Question... Using my time limit, I'd say I'm very happy to see the minister's concern... [[Minute limit.]] ...from the minister's concern that citizens should wait less to settle the case in court in all categories of generic cases. Civilian, criminal, labour, social security, economic security, because now you wait longer than when I was Minister of Justice, in some cases twice as long. Now, here's the question. If it's to reassure us that the Minister says I'm sorry I'm smiling. I have a question for you: has the government returned to the original draft list of legislative work? Because you changed it at the beginning of the year and a new release of this list. I quote experts. It is grotesque: we have a table that cannot be sorted, the results are arranged according to some unknown logic, there is no information about legislative initiatives in chronological order, from the latest to the oldest, the projects do not have... [[Timer signal]] ...subpages, which makes it difficult to find even a bill. The Minister himself referred to the government's legislative work. Does he even make it possible to use it? Because you broke it at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u435	Thank you very much, Senator. You've exceeded your time to ask questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u436	Mr. Senator, you're asking about the technical issues related to the list on the RCL website, the list of legislative work managed by the Government's Legislative Centre. It's a matter that I'm completely not responsible for. And I think it's... [[The Minister called for her.]] Yes, of course it's in the context of an inter-ministerial consultation at the moment. But I'm committed to questioning the RCL about the comments you're making, and I'm going to give you an explanation in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u437	Thank you very much, Minister. I don't see any more requests for questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion... [[Voices from the Chamber: More information on written responses.]] Oh, I'm sorry. I inform you that the Minister has undertaken to respond in writing to Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. I'm opening a discussion. Nobody signed up. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Benjamin Godyla, Wadim Tyszkiewicz and Joanna Sekuła have made their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I would like to remind you that this draft was submitted by the Legislative Commission and is included in print No. 665 and the committee's report In print No 665 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u438	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I am pleased that, on behalf of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, I can present a report on the work on the draft law amending the law on criminal proceedings contained in print No 665. The committees at the joint meeting on 5 April considered the draft law submitted by the applicants at first reading and amended it by requesting the Senate to adopt the uniform draft law notified. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we have in the material layer in the project? What problem have we solved? The complexity of cases recognised by regional courts and district courts as first instance courts is illustrated by, among others, the complexity of cases recognised by regional courts and district courts. data And here, of course, we refer to the data of the Justice Institute, the body under the supervision of the Minister of Justice. Which shows that we have a lot of cases filed with a large number of volumes of files. According to IWS's analysis, there are cases in regional courts that count to 3 volumes, but there are some cases that are about 8%. which consist of 4 volumes or more. However, the number of cases recognised by the district courts is considerably higher. Those that count to 5 volumes account for about half of the cases, and cases with 5 and 20 volumes account for 41% the whole thing. There's also almost 10%. cases where the number of volumes is above 20. In the event of those complex cases in the case of courts in accordance with Article. The grounds for the judgment given at first instance should be drawn up within 14 days of the date on which the application for a statement of reasons was made to the court and, in the event of an ex officio statement of reasons, From the date of delivery of the judgment, however, in a complex case or for any other important reason, where there is no justification within the aforementioned period, the President of the court may extend that period for a time-marked period. The practice shows that judges who face the need to prepare a reasoned ruling in a complex case of complex facts often benefit from the institution provided for in Article. 423 §1 k.p.k., i.e. apply to the President of the Court for an extension of the period referred to in the initial passage of that provision. Meanwhile, ladies and gentlemen, the time limit for appeal in criminal proceedings is uniform. According to art. 445 §1 k.p.k. that period shall be 14 days and shall run for each entitled person from the date of service of the reasoned judgment. The Act does not provide for any possibility of extending that period. Where the justification is extensive or complex, leaving the parties only 14 days to get a thorough knowledge of it and bringing an appeal may cause serious difficulties in the context of the need for a fair drafting of a pleading including that appeal and its bringing to the court, especially when the party wishes to avail itself of the assistance of a proxy only at this stage. What do we propose? What does the draft amendment include? We have here recommendations to propose, in the Code of Criminal Procedure, the introduction of a solution whereby, in the event of an extension of the time limit for the reasoned judgment, the time limit for the appeal is 30 days, i.e. where the judge himself stated that the case was complicated, we propose an extension of the time limit. The court will be required to notify the party of that time limit when the judgment is served with reasons. However, if, in the notice, the extended period is indicated wrongly and the party complies with it, the appeal shall be deemed to have been lodged within the time limit. What does the project involve? That the new regulation will also apply to cases initiated before the date of entry into force of the amending law. It is expected that as a result of the extension of the time limit for appeal in criminal proceedings in cases where I repeat this once more The court has benefited from the institution's extension of the deadline for drawing up the statement of reasons and, therefore, particularly in complex cases, will first of all be the exercise of the right of defence guaranteed by the defendant. Ladies and gentlemen, there's already a fuse here. The President of the Court has stated At the request of the judge himself who dealt with the matter The fact that the case is complex, difficult, complicated, that the deadline for drawing up the statement of reasons should be extended. So this is not a tool that will be used in any way. It has already been verified here whether we are actually dealing with a case of this nature. Another question arises: is there a solution that differs from those adopted in other countries? No. These solutions are different, especially in OECD countries. Let me give you two examples. Italy has as many as 3 different time limits for the lodging of appeals: 15 days in the case of provisions which have been adopted after the decision has been taken in secret and those which have been announced at the hearing by reading the operative part of the judgment; 30 days in the case of provisions issued and announced at the hearing or whose reasons should be drawn up by the 15th day following the date of the notice; 45 days in the case of provisions whose reasons for the complexity of the case should be drawn up within 90 days of the date of publication. Austria has e.g. such provision that the appeal must be lodged within 4 weeks of the date of delivery of the written judgment, together with the reasons and the minutes of the hearing. Ladies and gentlemen, we have consulted this project very widely. We have sent it to the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court, the National Council of Courts, the Ombudsman of Civil Rights, judicial associations, prosecutors' associations and associations of legal authorities. We received written answers, among others. from the Supreme Court, who said that the proposed solution deserves to be accepted, although he added a point of reference to narrowing the possibility of extending the time limit for appealing cases where the longer time limit for the reasoned judgment was motivated by the complexity of the case. The Centre for Study and Legislative Research of the National Council of Legal Counsels expressed strong support for this proposal and the National Council of Judicial Affairs did not make any comments. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, on behalf of the joint committees, I request that the draft be adopted. At the same time, I inform you that in agreement with the Legislative Office I tabled an amendment to this project. It's in the article. 1 in the amendment order after the words "Article." The following colon is added, the remainder is indicated as point 1 and point 2 is added as follows: in §2 the words "a' are inserted after the words "a' and in Article 2 the words "a' are inserted after the words "a'. 2 after the words "art." The words "Article 1a' shall be inserted. 445 § 2 of the Act as amended by this Act. These amendments are the consequence of an amendment consisting of the addition of §1a and are editorial and technical in nature. I am sorry to have included them in the report, but I will no longer be absorbing you for the second time. At least I hope so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u439	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to remind you that the senators can now submit a question to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants, which is also Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[I'm gonna...]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u440	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question because I didn't catch it. You have been presenting opinions that have affected this project, and you have said, among others, About the Supreme Court. The impact assessment states that the Supreme Court has stated that the proposed solution is acceptable, but has proposed to consider limiting the possibility of extending the time limit for appeal only to situations where the extension of the time limit for the statement of reasons is motivated by the complexity of the case. Has this opinion been discussed and have you taken this into account?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u441	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u442	Mr. Senator, yes. Excuse me, you have your duties as secretary, too. I just read it carefully, quoting that opinion. And, of course, at the committee meeting, we also had this opinion working on the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u443	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u444	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question because I was just catching up on how the problem presented in the project was solved in other countries. I know you set an example, among others. from Italy and Austria. You presented these time limits for bringing legal remedies there. But I see you've presented some extremes. What is it like in other countries of the European Union? Because I think these appeal periods are a little or even a lot shorter.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u445	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u446	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no uniform time limit for bringing an appeal. In the analysis prepared for us by the Legislative Office, examples from five countries are mentioned. I gave you an example from Italy, because it is particularly interesting. As you have pointed out, there are three different deadlines for bringing an appeal. This Austrian example, which I have cited, is an example with the longest term among these examples. And Norway, Denmark and Germany have shorter deadlines.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u447	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, no further questions. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the bill presented? Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u448	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In each case, the draft provides for an extension of the time limit for drawing up a written statement of reasons, an automatic extension of the time limit for drawing up an appeal to 30 days. In cases where for various reasons... Because it's not only intricate, but also other reasons for not being able to meet this 14-day deadline, which is in the article. 423. Then it is proposed to extend the deadline for drawing up the justification. And now let's imagine two citizens on the same issue, for example driving in a state of drunkenness. It's a simple matter, uncomplicated. The judge was in training and one day later gave the reasons for the judgment, and then the person will automatically receive 30 days without any additional reasons. This case is going to be the same case as the other one whose judge wasn't trained. Is that really fair? These two citizens are in the same situation because they're being charged with the same thing, and they've got absolutely nothing to do with it. different time limits for appeal. And that's two times in one case. That's one thing. So it violates the principle of equality. Secondly, the time limits, and such a time limit is 14 days to appeal, can, after all, be restored. These are not deadlines for which their termination, as in the case of material pre-cluse terms, makes it impossible to restore them. Such a preclusion term is e.g. a period of 30 days for the submission of a subsidised indictment. And then, even if the victim were lying in the hospital, if anything had happened independent of him, that deadline could not be restored. The Constitutional Tribunal even approved this, which I did not agree with 10 years ago as a representative of the Ombudsman. I was just in favour of time limits for a subsidised indictment to be restored. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment, in 2011 and 2012, seems to have said that absolutely no, because this is about legal certainty. Legal certainty, ladies and gentlemen. And what's the legal certainty here? Arbitrary recognition, automatic additionally... [[Voice from the room: Kazus.]] After all, the arbitrariness of art. 423 in conjunction with the Article proposed by the Member States. 445 is gross. I repeat: one day extension for various reasons. Training or disease and already automatically 30 days. Besides, the deadline has always been a certain term. It is a statutory term, a certain term. And here it is not certain, here is the decision of the President of the Court. President of the court, see who decided to draw up a statement of reasons, will also decide that one citizen has 14 days and the other 30 days. President of the court. Dear Member State, this is not the authority that is ruling on this matter. Why do we create twice the shorter term for one? just because one day longer he was on treatment or training, because there could be different reasons for delaying the justification? This will certainly have an impact on the dynamics of proceedings, and this will also create frustration for citizens. That doesn't do anything. The rules that we're quoting to you right now... Other inability to make a statement of reasons within the time limit. They could be all kinds of things. And just as one of the parties is now coming out of the courtroom unhappy, it will come out twice as unhappy after this proposal, because she will feel deceived that she has been given twice as short a time to draw up an appeal, a key matter, because the appeal is important, the party who is unhappy with the judgment has the right to appeal. Why should I have worse than the other one? Just because I was in training? What did I do to this guy? Ladies and gentlemen, I really ask you to reflect, please withdraw this solution. We didn't get a call from the Ministry, so I checked it out, either from the lawyers or from the prosecutors. I'm talking about the two sides that are supposed to appeal. Neither one nor the others saw the need to change this kind of solution. So, I'm asking you very much not to push this solution any further. Let's remain on a 14-day deadline as the one that has already been adopted in our Polish Carnival tradition, has established itself. It does not create unnecessary tensions, it does not cause frustration, it does not cause feelings of hurting one side. It's a certain term. Every freshman in the law knows that there are 14 days for an appeal. And that's how it's gonna be one giant galimatias. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u449	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome. No, no one wants to ask a question. In this connection, thank you very much to the Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u450	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say I'm worried, and I'm even very worried, because the Minister just said I hope, however, that this is not supported by the fact that these extensions are, for example, because the judge has training. I hope that the Presidents of the courts whom the Minister of Justice has appointed comply with the law, more, even I want to believe it, because the law speaks very precisely: in a complex case or for another important reason. I don't think the judge's training is any other important reason. Minister, I am firmly convinced that the judges are taking advantage of this, and they are overseeing it, they are watching over the regularity of this election by you, really because of complex or extremely important reasons. And just because we want to believe that this system that you guys are watching over is effective... And for a change, we are guided by this, and this is absolutely the only intention of us to make the defendant's right of defence a reality in order to extend this time limit to appeal in cases where the court has used the institution to extend the time limit for the statement of reasons. So let me repeat this: I want to believe that this is applied in complex cases, and I do not accept that there are other situations at all. I have no doubt that this solution was used only in such cases, otherwise it would indeed be a cause for concern. And I wouldn't like to say so casandric here either, that the Ministry of Justice, knowing that other than complicated cases use this tool, didn't take appropriate and appropriate steps to prevent such situations from happening. Therefore, on the basis of the right to exercise the right of defence guaranteed to the accused, I believe that this Senate initiative is justified, necessary and worth supporting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u451	Thank you kindly. I inform you that no one else has signed up for the vote. I inform you that Senators Alexander Szwed, Benjamin Godyla, Wadi Tyszkiewicz, Mariusz Gromko have submitted their speeches to the minutes. [[Mr. Marshal?]] You have tabled a legislative proposal by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u452	Yes, and at the same time, I would like to ask for a deadline for committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft law still at this meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u453	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u454	In one sentence, literally. Mr. Marshal! Dear Senator, The purpose of this provision is not to defend itself. Similarly, the prosecutor will be given 30 days to appeal. So that's not an absolute purpose. We're not here in any way facing the defendant. Remember, it is also worth mentioning that 30 days will have both sides of the accused and the prosecutor. But that doesn't change what I just said. This is not a valid proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u455	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski has requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I don't hear any objections. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law - Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws. I would like to remind you that this draft was submitted by the Legislative Commission and is included in print No 188 and the committee report In print No 188 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u456	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! On behalf of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, I have the honour to present a report on the draft law amending the Law on Administrative Procedure and certain other laws contained in print No 188 S. At first, I'll tell you what this project is about. It concerns the regulation of the lodging of pleadings and of the assessment when such a transfer is treated as a transfer within the time limit. So far in the laws, I would call this, the procedural issues we are dealing with in this project, namely in the Code of Administrative Procedure, in the Code of Civil Procedure, in the Code of Criminal Procedure, in the Tax Order and in the Law on Procedure before Administrative Courts, these cases were treated very differently, in a sense ruled in this case, I would call it creative chaos. This is what our courts, the judicature, in particular the Constitutional Tribunal, pointed out in the case of the signature of Act P 1/18 of 2019. Also the Supreme Administrative Court, in its judgment of 2008, and the European Union drew attention to it, in particular this is reflected in the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of March 2019. This was about compliance with the Directive, I would say without it, I would call it the publication address of the European Parliament and Council of December 1997, as amended by the Directive of February 2008. As a result, first, judicature, second, European Union law, and thirdly, to put it simply, serious treatment of citizens who should not be surprised by the different requirements regarding the deadline for submitting a letter in different proceedings Whether it's criminal or civil or tax, the Legislative Commission has decided to introduce a project. The procedure itself took a relatively long time as the original project was dated 14 August 2020. Two meetings of the committee were held, one on 15 December 2020, the other on 5 April 2022. I think we've worked out the right text as a result. What are we changing in these laws? Firstly, we remove the wording of the designated postal operator from all these procedural laws. This has been advocated, among others. The European Union. Due to the principle of equality, we are to treat all postal operators who supply correspondence equally. With us designated by the postal operator, in a certain way privileged, but one on which the corresponding, greater obligations are imposed, is the Polish Post. The postal operators are in the register in total about 270, as I remember. So that in all these laws the concept of postal operator is used, not only that designated. Send a letter in Poland will be available to any postal operator. Second... It's a procedural issue, I mean, not a procedural one, but a cleaning one. So far it has been that the handwriting made by the soldier was made up of military command. Because there is now a new type of formation, namely territorial troops, we exclude from it soldiers serving as territorial military services available. It's such a formula that a soldier doesn't stay in a military unit, it's not like he's ordained, it's just that he's at home. And he can have free access to post offices. Next: we generalize the procedure related to those deprived of freedom. Until now, it has been accepted that prisons are being referred to in this context, but those deprived of liberty are also people in detention, in some psychiatric departments. That's why we're talking about people who are deprived of freedom. They file pleadings in the administration of the appropriate establishment. It doesn't have to be a penalty bet, it has to be a penalty bet where that person is currently staying. In some laws we have supplemented... we propose a supplement to the statement that you can also submit a letter to the Polish consular office, i.e. the embassy and consular office. We are talking about letters sent by people who reside outside Poland. And here's two big shifts. As far as the territory of the European Union is concerned, he is treated in the same way as the territory of the Republic of Poland. The letters submitted in the European Union have the same... I mean, the rights of people who reside in the European Union are the same as those who are in Poland. This is of course taken into account, but we add to this the Swiss Confederation and the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement, the EFTA parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. In total, there are four countries, Switzerland and Liechtenstein, Norway and Iceland. They will be treated on the same basis as the countries of the European Union, i.e. the obligations and rights that they have in the European Union, are extended to those four countries. As well. And this is kind of a novelty, because it has been only in 2 procedural laws so far, we add a detailed provision, the same in all 5 laws, concerning people who send their letters in the territory of countries that are neither EFTA nor the Swiss Confederation nor are in the territory of the Union. So this is the category of people who correspond from outside the area in a kind of privileged sense, I don't know, e.g. from Belarus, Ukraine... It is so important that, as we know, we have a conflict at the moment, and some of the people who reside in Poland in some way establish contact with the Polish state, with its institutions. After all, they can return to their country, whether it be Belarus or Ukraine, and perhaps they will have to communicate with these institutions. It is therefore particularly important to define the rights of these persons, or actually their obligations in this case. And here in all 5 laws there is a provision that in order for this letter to have the value given within the deadline, it must be received by the Polish postal service of the postal operator within the meaning of the 2012 Postal Law after it has been granted in a country other than a Member State of the European Union, the Swiss Confederation or the EFTA State. And one last thing, except for the orderlies... We have added a provision to the Electronic Service Act, it has slightly increased its volume, by one article, namely we amend this law so that this change, which we propose, in 5 laws, is compatible with this Act on Electronic Service. These amendments were accepted by the High Commission during its deliberations. In fact, there wasn't much discussion, so the most hard work was made by the legislator, whom I thank very much for this work. One person who spoke during the joint committee meeting was a representative of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. He suggested that these issues, I would call it, ordering deadlines for writing be extended also to the electoral code. The committees have not decided to do this because, first of all, the electoral code is quite a specific law, second, there are terms that are also defined by the hour, and to put it simply, this is a different kind of matter. So we didn't reach that electoral code. But perhaps in the future, it will be possible to reflect on the timing of the electoral code. And one more thing. As far as consultations are concerned, practically all the opinions that were expressed during the consultation were positive and those comments that were included were taken into account, as was the comments on the powers of non-European Union and EFTA individuals. Only one question from the consultation has not been taken into account, namely the proposal of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection to document the method and means of certification of the consignment by postal operators. It's a little different matter, and we just didn't do it, 'cause it would have to be... As I say, there is another matter and actually another law should appear in this case. So, to sum up, I can say that in this respect, in which we were given an authorisation in a sense, this bill in my opinion comprehensively resolves the issues of broadcasting procedural letters from outside Poland, also as regards Poland's border in special situations. Then we ask... Oh, and as far as the vote is concerned... The committee accepted the whole project: 17 votes were in favour, probably two senators... yes, two senators abstained and there were no votes against. Therefore, I recommend that you adopt the draft Law No 188 S. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u457	Thank you. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. May I remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Jerzy Czerwinski to represent them. Yes, I can see that, Mr. Senator. Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u458	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, I have a question about the grounds for letters sent outside the European Union. I didn't catch it in the report, but you said here, among other things. the amendments which were tabled at the committee meeting. The Minister of Finance, Funds and Regional Policy welcomed the initiative, but his reservations raised a proposal to eliminate it from the article. 12 §6 point 2 of the Law - Tax jurisdiction of the grounds relating to letters sent outside the European Union. Is this provision eliminated in these amendments or is it staying?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u459	On the contrary, it remained in the text of the Act and, in order to achieve consistency of all procedures, it was transferred to subsequent laws. So, as I said, when it comes to those who write outside the area, I would call this, distinguished, it will be shorter, i.e. from outside the European Union EFTA and Switzerland, all procedures have been harmonised. The letter must simply reach the Polish post office within the deadline.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u460	Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u461	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Did I get the message from you in the report that it's over 270? . Postal operators. [[Yes.]] And now: how does the bill specify that? I understand it's about those who operate under some kind of license confirming the possibility of providing their services. How is it formulated? I mean, is it simply that all operators are able to provide their services in this area at a certified level?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u462	This was not the subject of a committee meeting, but I can say in this way: this is what the postal law has taken care of. There is a special register that is available on websites, and the services of each of these operators can be used. Whether this will be the case and to what extent the operator awarded, i.e. Poczta Polska, continues to monopolize the market in this respect in some sense, it is difficult to say. It is difficult for me to say what this will look like if this law is applied. And the European Union may not have imposed so much as it pointed out that none of the operators should be a monopoly in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u463	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister Michał Woś. [[Voice from the Chamber: Minister Warchoł.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Yes, Marcin Warchoł.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Minister Marcin Warchoł. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u464	Mr. Marshal, we fully support this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u465	Thank you. Now you can ask the Minister questions that last no more than a minute on this item. Are there any such questions? No... [[Voice from the room: There they are.]] Ah, Minister Jackowski... [[A modest senator.]] I'm sorry. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u466	Thank you very much. Minister, the question is short and technical. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. There you go.]] Will this area be improved in the evaluation of the Ministry after these provisions have been adopted? Is it just more convenient, so to speak, for parties who are in court, but who do not know when it comes to efficiency, whether this system will be more efficient than the system we know so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u467	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u468	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! Certainly yes, of course, because the system that has already provided for different standards for different proceedings, and here we have criminal, civil, administrative, judicial and administrative proceedings, tax regulation, has created uncertainty. However, the misdelivered letter has certain consequences. The party later comes from this means of appeal and these remedies cause additional proceedings to pile up, i.e. we have processes in the process. In a situation in which, as you have proposed, we introduce a uniform system, the citizen will know that writing in any country, whether it is the European Union, whether it is the EFTA, whether it is Switzerland, will have the same effect as submitting it in the Polish court or in the Polish administrative body. Therefore, there will be no more problems with appeal, and these appeals have so far taken place. So the processes will be faster and it will affect the efficiency of the whole system. Yes, it will facilitate the task and help the system. That is why we consider this solution worthy of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u469	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. For the record, Senators Alexander Szwed, Maciej Łuczak, Benjamin Godyla and Wadi Tyszkiewicz have made their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. They shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on spatial planning and development. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling and is included in print No 215 and the committee's report In print No 215 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u470	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I will try as short as I can, and the simplest way is to present a problem that is very confusing. As Mr Marshal said, the bill is the result of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of May 2019 and concerns amendments to the Land Planning and Development Act. The problem identified by the Court concerns the determination of the amount of compensation for landowners and their calculation. Well, it would be possible to go into the details of the calculation so far and why the Court found it unfair. In February this year, a meeting was held between the Joint Legislative Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, where a draft amendment to the law on spatial planning and development was considered. After a rather long discussion, the committees came to the conclusion that they accept the proposed law, which changes the calculation of the value of the property as a result of the change of plan. Then Senator Czerwiński reported a problem of symmetry in calculating the loss of value. We were not prepared to take this proposal into account and I have committed myself to this addition. Therefore, I now refer to what the committees adopted in February, and to this supplement, which was supposed to give symmetry when calculating the value lost as a result of the change of plan. In the explanatory memorandum of this law, the definition of a planning gap is used. This planning gap arose after 31 December 2003, when the municipality's spatial development plans adopted before 1994 expired. The very definition of the planning gap is a little awkward because it was not an obligation to create land-use plans at the time, it only concerned areas that were indicated in the general plan. So, since there was no obligation, there couldn't be a gap. The changes that were made to the original draft law Namely, then there were 2 plans and a general plan and a detailed plan. The general plan did not determine the destination of the site, the detailed plan did. If this had not been included in the bill which I now propose to the High Senate on behalf of the committee, there would have been a problem with the interpretation of the plan. And it would apply to compensations of high value, often unauthorised, if it were to be based on a general plan that did not specify the destination of specific parcels, but only to areas. That is why the document I am presenting includes this in detail, both in this part concerning growth and the reduction in the value of real estate. After the amendments made by the Legislative Bureau, I submit to this print which is being processed because it comes from February this year, amendments that take into account all that I am talking about. I think that they resolve this problem comprehensively and there will be no negative consequences due to the different case law of the courts, which would have occurred if not to clarify which plan before 1994 is concerned. I don't know if I've made it clear, and I'm sure it's short, but believe me, I've tried. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u471	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the Senator and to the authorised representative of the applicants. It is Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u472	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd ask a favor from the senator because we've been dealing with... As if one could point out a specific example, e.g. The fact that someone had a property on which, I understand, according to the old plan, he could theoretically have built a residential building, but the development plan was changed and it was determined that it would be green areas... Would such an example be adequate? In view of this change, for example, it would be limited. the use of parts of his property. The point is to make it more concrete through such an example, because it might be more graphically explaining to those who listen to us what this project is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u473	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u474	This particular example would not be a problem when it comes to interpretation. I will give you another which, as far as possible, was a reason for the Court's judgment. Namely, the area which was in the original plan before 1994 for construction was used for 9 years, after 1994, for parking. After a change of plan, if there is still an investment or construction site there, compensation for... I'm sorry. If there were no construction, only green, then compensation for the owner would be charged in relation to the actual use of the land. And it was a loss to that owner because it should be in relation to the plan's records. This was the flaw of the 2004 Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u475	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. [[No, not yet.]] Oh, there he is, Senator Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u476	I would like to clarify here. So I understand that this is a situation about what could possibly be on real estate rather than the facts? Because the senator mentioned... [[Yes. Stan...]] ... that e.g. it was possible to build a multi-dwelling housing estate, but the owner thought it would be used as a parking lot, because it has current revenues, smaller expenditures, etc. And now, after such a change, as I understand it, is that it's no longer about the fact that there's a parking lot there, it's calculated only in relation to this potential that there could be housing there?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u477	Reference shall be made to the specific plan prior to 1994, to the provisions of the local plan. It's a new terminology. . adopted after that date, i.e. the reference is to the plan rather than to the actual use.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u478	Thank you, Senator. There are no more questions for you. [[Thank you.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the draft law at issue? I address Minister Piotr Uściński. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: Mr. Marshal, I don't know, I don't think the microphone is working...]] It's working, it's working.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u479	The government hasn't established a position on this case... [[No, it's not working. Press the black button.]] I'm sorry. [[It's okay.]] The government has not prepared a position for this bill, but we as the Ministry are very kind to look at this project, so we are glad that the state as Senate took care of it. [[So the ministry supports, as I understand it, right? Question is, yes?]] The government hasn't presented its position, but I can... [[I understand, but you...]] ...to say on my behalf that I support.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u480	I see. Not on behalf of the Ministry, because we don't know if the Ministry... But you do, Mr. Vice Minister. Good. We address questions that last no longer than one minute and are related to this item on the agenda. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u481	Thank you very much. Minister, I have this question: is the estimated value... [[Mr. Senator, excuse me, just a moment. The Minister will take a seat behind the speaker, so that you may be facing each other.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[There you go, Mr. Senator.]] I have such a short question: does the government, or does anyone in Poland have an orientation, how many such cases can there be? I know, it's pretty hard to pick up. And possibly what is the estimated cost? The cost will go to local governments, I understand, because the payment of these compensations will be up to the local authorities, right? And that's an extra... Is that a marginal problem, or is it a wider problem? The point is to have an approximate situation in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u482	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u483	Mr. Senator! Mr. Marshal! High Senate! We don't have it. so accurately estimated. One thing is certain, this is certainly not a marginal problem because by December 2003 very few local authorities have drawn up local plans for the entire areas of their municipalities. Therefore, this planning gap, i.e. the period between 31 December 2003 and the date of adoption of the plan, are also local governments, which do not even have a plan adopted yet and will be adopting a plan in very many municipalities in a moment, and so there are certainly a lot of such cases, which is why the Constitutional Tribunal has dealt with this issue. As far as the financial impact is concerned, it is difficult to accurately estimate them, but we are convinced that they will certainly increase the costs for local authorities and may not be included in the forecast of the financial consequences that were defined in local plans by municipalities. However, it should be noted that the judgment of the Constitutional Court or the judgment of the Constitutional Court has universal force and is final and must therefore be recognised in this case. [[Minister, who's gonna pay that compensation? Self-government?]] The damages are paid by local governments.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u484	Not the Treasury. Good. Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is only now that I have come up with a question, I will admit, namely, what about the statute of limitations. Is there even a statute of limitations here? And the question is, who's actually gonna pay for it: are the municipalities or any other entity?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u486	There's no limitation on claims here. And to answer your second question, I must say that this is a matter of communes. Municipalities, on the one hand, charge planning fees if the value of the property increases as a result of the adoption of the plan and on the other hand pay compensation if the value of the property decreases.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u487	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: Thank you very much.]] Oh, the question is... [[Voice from the room: For discussion.]] I understand, for discussion. I'm opening a discussion. I would remind you that legislative proposals can only include changes aimed at implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and their necessary consequences. Please take the floor of Senator Frankiewicz. [[Do you mind if I take a seat?]] Mr. Senator, over here. I'm inviting the ministers, and you're gonna have to come down here and do the same. [[Then I'll move faster.]] Easy, easy. We've got time. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u488	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! I still have to complete my application. Namely, I ask you to set a deadline for committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. With regard to this brief discussion, which took place here just now, I would like to say that I do not think that this change is causing any significant burden on local governments in compensation, because this concerns a very detailed and narrow range of cases. And I will remind you that here is a complete insymmetry between compensation and benefits for the local government due to changes in spatial planning. Namely, compensations are paid in full calculated size, and so-called. the planning pension, i.e. the benefits to the local government resulting from the change of plan, can be calculated, which is often ineffective even, up to a maximum of 30% difference. So I think it's happening. The Spatial Planning Act should be amended in its entirety. She creates pathological situations and the fact that there is not enough coverage of plans at the moment, especially in cities, is the result of a bad law on spatial planning and it has disastrous consequences in the future. I have even publicly argued that this system leads to publicisation of the costs and privatisation of the benefits of changes in the spatial planning. This has to stop. Counted damages for the destination of the site in the road plans in one city can go into billions of zlotys. So what we're talking about here is the margin of the problem. The whole bill needs to be changed, and I know that this work is moving fast in the ministry. I think there's even a project and I'm hoping that he'll be quickly processed, he'll be good, he won't create the kind of trouble that we're dealing with right now. Well, local governments are facing huge problems, and the result is a huge urban chaos, which will burden Poland for tens, if not hundreds of years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u489	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Szwed, Benjamin Godyla and Janusz Gromek made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes, and Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz submitted a legislative proposal. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u490	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm not gonna say what I said again, but I'm gonna put it in the end. In response to the recent statement In fact, a draft law amending the Land Planning and Development Act, which is currently at the stage of public and inter-ministerial consultations, has been drawn up. I would therefore encourage the senators to read this project. At this stage, before being sent by the government to the Sejm, we can improve something else there, if there are any ideas. But we believe that this is a good project that responds to the challenges facing us in terms of spatial planning. Just one little thing you're doing today. Maybe not small, for some people important We didn't respect your work in the Senate. Nevertheless, we are introducing solutions that will make planning more flexible. The municipalities will be able to prepare them much faster, more efficiently. It's not gonna be a long-term trial, it's gonna be a few months at most. I think it will protect us from problems related to, for example. with spilled buildings, with spatial chaos. We'll have better space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u491	Thank you, Minister. In view of the fact that a legislative proposal has been submitted, the Senate is directing the bill to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz has submitted a request for the appointment of committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. There are no votes against and the proposal has therefore been adopted. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Act on cinematography. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. The draft is included in print No 355 and the committee's report In print No 355 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u492	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present to the High House a report by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Legislative Committee on the draft law amending the Act on cinematography Print No 355. On 24 March, the Senate Marshal sent a draft law amending the Act on cinematography to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Legislative Commission to examine it at first reading. The committees at joint meetings on 4 August 2021 and on 6 April 2022 considered, at first reading, the draft law submitted by the applicants, amended it and requested the Senate to adopt a uniform draft law and a draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. What is it, High Izbo, about this project? The main objective of the revision of the Act of 30 June 2005 on cinematography is to increase the availability of films distributed in cinemas for visually impaired persons, as well as to clarify the regulation on the granting of an individual identifier to each film displayed in the cinema. In Poland there are about 1 million 700 thousand people with vision disabilities. Non-governmental organisations dealing with this issue estimate that an additional 3 and 4 million people, especially older ones, have difficulty receiving the full and satisfactory reception of the film presented with subtitles. As they get older, it's harder for them to keep up with fast-changing subtitles and to share their attention between the subtitle path and the action on the screen. This problem also applies to younger people with different forms of dyslexia. People with this type of disability do not have access to cinematography because it does not use the necessary facilities, thus excluding them from cultural life and discrimination in this respect. Against exclusion from participation in culture is one of the priorities of Polish and European cultural policy. This task is particularly important for people with visual disabilities whose participation in the cultural sphere is hindered by partial or complete limitation of certain perceptive possibilities. The emergence of new intellectual and technological solutions to overcome such barriers and their effective implementation represent a real opportunity to limit the marginalisation of people with disabilities in access to cultural goods. High Izbo, the problem, especially in the context of the availability of foreign films in cinemas for people with visual disabilities, is the lack of possibility to receive from distributors of foreign films in Poland before the planned premiere in the cinema materials necessary to perform audiodescription. In order to change this situation, it is proposed to introduce a solution that makes it dependent on giving an individual film identifier, which is to be widely distributed in cinemas, on the production of audiodescriptions and subtitles for this film in an audio version. At the same time, the project aims to clarify the regulation on the granting of an individual identifier to each film displayed in the cinema. High Izbo, the project was prepared by a group of senators. Here I would like to thank Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, who has been very involved in this project. The project was not easy for many reasons, required certain technical arrangements, technological arrangements with the film industry. The discussion at the joint meetings of the committees was that, of course, everyone was in favour of this project and they were in favour of this solution, and it is difficult to say otherwise. Among the relevant themes that emerged during the debate at the joint committee meeting was the question of why not include people with other disabilities, especially with regard to hearing organs, in this area. But here are the committees, after hearing representatives of the environments of people with disabilities, representatives of the film industry, who were, of course, distributors... This is the attitude that the government will put forward an appropriate solution in this regard, because it is much more complicated from the legal and technical and organisational side. If we had put this whole package into this bill right now, we would still have been investigating this project, and without it it was considered to be a very good step in the direction, and it was positively assessed. There were also questions about the costs involved during the discussion. And there were two numbers that best illustrate the case. The revenues of the cinematographic industry This is over PLN 1 billion. The cost of creating such a system for these productions is estimated to be about PLN 2 million. This shows that we are absolutely increasing the standard, the availability of basic or one of the basic cultural objects, which is simply contemporary cinema. Without it, it's hard to imagine the modern world. And in this regard, there was no resistance from the parties or distributors, or... well, above all from distributors, on which new obligations are imposed. Because as you all know, every title that goes into distribution... This is preceded by a series of actions. I'm already skipping license issues, making this movie, but there's a promotion here, there's a whole calendar... That's why the film industry in a situation where there was a pandemic, when it was surprised by the closure of the cinema rooms, the opening of the cinema rooms... It's not easy enough to start this market or freeze it. In this regard, this opinion of distributors' environments was important here, because they will ultimately be responsible for implementing the law. I could talk about the committee meeting for a long time. I believe that the proposal itself, which I mentioned, has been adopted, does not raise any doubts. It was unanimously supported by all senators at the meeting of the Joint Committee. High Izbo, once again on behalf of the joint committees, I recommend that the High Senate adopt this law in the form that we worked out during the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u493	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants authorized Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka to represent them. Are there any questions for the senator or your marshal? There isn't. Thank you. And does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? No, because there's no representative... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But you're PISM ladies, yes. And... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I see. Oh, well, with PISM, yeah. But none of the ladies want to give a lecture here and support the project. Good. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: I still, in the discussion...]] Good. Well, in that case, since there are no questions... [[They're here, ……]] [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: I was referring... Please hold, Senator, I will explain...]] [[Okay, I'll hold off.]] No, no, but then there won't be... If I open the discussion, there won't be any questions. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator will ask, and I will grant his request, so...]] [[Three months.]] [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: We have everything.]] Good. I don't understand, but... [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're welcome, since the opposition leaders have made a deal, I don't mind. I therefore open the discussion. I ask you to take the floor of Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u494	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very grateful and, above all, I would like to express my thanks to everyone who has worked on this project. We've been celebrating this project for almost 14 months, and today is the finale. I'm gonna get to the bottom of this. Senator Czerwiński, which you have not yet said, raised such a question during the committee's deliberations, as to whether there is any doubt for the first 3 months following the first public show on the Polish market, as referred to in Article. 21a. And we, in fulfilling this remark, re-examined this with representatives of the Polish Film Institute and agreed on an amendment which will certainly satisfy you, which I will report to you today. So that's the article. 21a.. Its content was:.Audiodescription and subtitles for audio films are produced before the start of the dissemination of the film, which is to be distributed in at least 10 cinemas in the first three months following the first public show on the Polish market. After the amendment it sounds like this: Audiodescription and subtitles for audio films are produced before the start of the distribution of the film, which after the official date of the cinema premiere on the Polish market is to be distributed for at least 2 weeks in 10 or more cinemas. I think your senator is satisfied with that. Once again, thank you very much to all the senators and thank you very much also to the representatives of the government. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, the director of the Polish Film Institute, the National Film Library and everyone who contributed to this project. Of course also non-governmental organizations, which have been very active in supporting us and representatives of Polish cinematography. I have already tabled this amendment, and it is complex. I would like to ask for a deadline for the committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u495	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed and Benjamin Godyla have submitted their speeches to the minutes. You have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Gabriel Morawska-Staneck. The discussion is closed. Is the government representative... There isn't. Okay, I'll ask. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? No. In view of the fact that a legislative proposal has been submitted, the Senate is directing the bill to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Culture and Media. Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka has requested that committees be appointed for the preparation of an additional report in order to carry out the third draft law still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear a voice of objection, I will consider that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I do not hear any objections, and the proposal has therefore been accepted. Now I'm asking for messages... [[Voices from the room: No, no...]] What do you mean, no? [[Voice from the room: There are still 2 points.]] [[We still have two points. We're gonna make it...]] No, ladies and gentlemen... No, no... [[Voices from the courtroom: But the marshal's man by 9:00 p.m....]] What time is it? [[Voices from the room: 11 minutes...]] We're gonna make it. [[Voices from the O.R.: We'll make it.]] [[Voices from the hall: Mr. Marshal Grodzki has decided that we are finished. Now I've confirmed it.]] [[Voices from the hall: I can drive.]] [[Voices from the hall: Women are brave.]] The Chief Marshal has decided we're done here. [[9:00. I'm going to see your marshal...]] [[Mr. Marshal, we're gonna finish...]] But we're not gonna finish those two points, ladies and gentlemen, because I'm gonna finish the lead at 9:00. [[We promise the marshal that this point will be finished by 9:00 p.m.]] [[Voices from the room: And the next.]] Okay, Senator. There you go. [[Thank you very much.]] We're gonna have one more point for tomorrow anyway.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u496	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I am speaking with such certainty because the legislative initiative of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, discussed at yesterday's meeting together with the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, has gained the support of all the senators present at this meeting. It was adopted unanimously. They were not enthusiastic, but favourable opinions of both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. The issue concerns the realization of the costs of bringing children with disabilities by their parents, not by the municipality. The municipalities carry out this obligation, and may, in accordance with the decision of the Council, entrust this obligation upon request to parents of children with disabilities, precisely those parents. The aim is to ensure that the resolution taken by the municipality on reimbursement of costs is based on the same principles as if it were considered important to resolve the reimbursement of these costs for cars under the regulation of the Minister of Transport. Today, at ever increasing fuel prices, we often fail to keep up with the increase in the cost of both fuel and the operation of the car. Once these solutions are implemented, the situation will change. We have all recognised, the members of both the local government committee and the other 2 committees, that this solution is right, fair, gives the possibility for local authorities, municipalities, as well as the realization and realization of the right cost for parents to reach their children. On behalf of the 3rd committee, I request that this draft law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm here on a formal matter.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u497	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u498	Mr. Marshal, I'm here on a formal matter. Mr. Marshal didn't open this point. [[Voice from the room: Yes, just...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u499	Excuse me. Thank you, Senator, but I've been confused by your senator. You saw what was going on. [[Yeah, I saw it.]] We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the law I would like to remind you that this project has been submitted by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and is included in print No. 679, and the committee report In print No 679 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Magdalena Kochan, who is on the stand, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u500	Thank you very much. I think all of you... [[We've heard some of it.]] ...you heard me. Once again, I confirm that the draft was adopted unanimously by the members mentioned by your marshal of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u501	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and, at the same time, to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Magdalena Kochan to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? No. Thank you, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? [[Voice in the room: I'll ask you a question...]] I'm sure there'll be a question for you later. You don't...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u502	Mr. Marshal, yes, I just had to press the button. I just wanted to say, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, that this regulation is advisable, positive, applies to almost 5 000 children and it will be a beneficial, very important change for local governments... [[So you're in favour?]] ...i.e. It's for my parents. Yes, I support on behalf of the Ministry of Education and Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u503	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. No questions asked. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Janusz Błucherz, Benjamin Godyla and Alexander Szwed presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We still have five minutes. [[Senator, you're gonna be here in two minutes.]] Good. We therefore proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country and the law on education. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 693, and the committee's report In print No 693S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz... [[Voice from the hall: In a minute, Mr. Marshal, I hear it's in the hallway...]] [[Voice from the room: It won't be a short point...]] [[Voice from the room: Really.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be waiting for Senator Tyszkiewicz at 9:00. Excuse me, but there are limitations to the proceedings. It's a short break. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] Mr. Senator, don't ask me for a break anymore, because I won't remind you what happened next. [[Mr. Marshal, Senator Tyszkiewicz is arriving in two, three minutes.]] [[Voice from the room: Only.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Good. Break's over. Senator Tyszkiewicz, please report to the podium. I would like to ask the rapporteur of these two committees, Mr Wadim Tyszkiewicz, to submit a report to the committee on the draft law. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u504	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! [[The rapporteur for the 3rd committee, I'm sorry.]] Yesterday, a meeting of 3 committees was held, as stated in the draft law on amending the law on assistance for Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that country and the Law on Education, which includes proposals on the possibility of creating a preschool home centre for up to 7 children, the way in which the training of Ukrainian citizens is financed, the possibility for school heads and institutions during the summer break season 2021/2022 colonies and semi-colonies for Ukrainian citizens, the possibility of creating international branches for Ukrainian citizens in a simplified manner in the course of the school year 2022/2023, the possibility of filling the position of a director of a unit of education system without competitive proceedings, the possibility of withdrawing from the application to Ukrainian citizens of universally applicable principles of assessment, classification, promotion and the obligation to take the eighth-class exam and the introduction of additional free learning of Polish to Ukrainian citizens in preparatory departments. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski presented the bill and called on the self-government and government to seek compromise solutions despite disagreements. More than 800,000 children entered Poland after the start of the war in Ukraine. There are problems with the adaptation of Ukrainian children, among others. due to the lack of knowledge by children of Polish language and the incomparability of teaching systems in Poland and Ukraine. A large group of children of refugees residing in Poland learns online in the Ukrainian system, where children start school at the age of 6. The education system there is divided into three levels. Senator Kwiatkowski representing the applicants presented the provisions of the bill. Positively, the bill was assessed by the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, the Polish Teachers' Union, the Chief Health Inspector in this case with comments And Deputy Chief of the Border Guard. The Supreme Administrative Court has not submitted any comments. The minister who showed the statistics took the floor. According to the Ministry, most of the proposed solutions have already been adopted and talks have been going on with the local government for weeks. During the month after 24 February 193 thousand students from Ukraine arrived in the Polish education system. As many as 540 thousand children learn remotely in the Ukrainian system, and 140 000 went to primary schools. More than 37,000 children went to kindergarten itself. The Minister stated that there is already a free Polish language learning within the preparatory department, that there is an additional 6 hours and that 1.5 subsidies are available for each child. The budget includes 30 million PLN per colony or semicolon, without a statutory warrant. In addition, 180 million have been allocated to psychological care. A descriptive evaluation shall be carried out in the preparatory department. Not many people joined the Matura, only 50. In turn, 7,000 students took eighth grade exams. As far as competitions are concerned, there is still a discussion at the Ministry. Maybe next year the competitions for school heads will be treated as during the pandemic, and local government officials will be able to extend their functions. The self-government party represented Marek Wójcik from the Association of Polish Cities, who confirmed that the resort in the regulation of 8 April actually solved problems concerning art. The 6th and 59th Act. There was also a discussion about education subsidies. The education subsidy according to the Minister should be sufficient to cover the costs of running children in kindergartens. However, the local government has raised the fact that, in fact, the education subsidy for children in kindergartens from the first to the fifth year of age covers only 1/7 of the costs incurred by local authorities. The Minister said that PLN 40 million per month for the payment of children's stay in kindergartens, to cover the costs of preschool care for Ukrainian children should be enough, with which the self-government party disagreed. Several amendments have been made. An amendment has been made on safety issues with regard to the sanitary inspection and the fire department, allowing, however, such opinions of the fire department and the health centre to be the basis for the authorisation of such a point. As far as colonies and semicolons are concerned, the optional possibility applies today. In order to guarantee the participation of children in these projects, 28 million PLN was allocated from the state budget, but this money is not enough according to the local government. This can only be enough for Polish children or for Ukrainian children. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes? Now. Several amendments have been made. The Minister raised the issue of the financing of kindergartens at issue, claiming that it was a task of its own. The local government has decided that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Look, why don't I finish? [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] I'm finishing up.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u505	Thank you very much, Senator. There was a deal that we'd be done by 9:00. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Does a government representative want to speak? If so, it's very short: for, against...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u506	The position was presented by Minister Machalek, clearly indicating that a large proportion of the solutions proposed in the Act already operate in educational law, and that some of the solutions would be even detrimental to Ukrainian pupils and would severely dismantle the system. That's why we're against this bill in general. And Minister Machalek has two more sentences to correct, because I think some of the information was inaccurate.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u507	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u508	Because... I think it came out of a hurry... As far as the eighth grade exam is concerned, we're at the stage of the declaration. Besides, I did not talk about the amount of grants for the whole kindergarten, but about how much falls for the Ukrainian student, what amount will be transferred and was transferred in a month's time. And I didn't say that... I was just saying that basically running kindergarten is the job of your own community. Part of the tasks in kindergartens are financed by the state budget. Children with disabilities... and here are increased almost four times. amounts for children from Ukraine. I would like to clarify this, but I think it was in a hurry that some errors were found in the report.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u509	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u510	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question that has already appeared during the committee's work, but I would like it to sound here, on the floor. Namely, can the proposed solutions lead to the creation in our country of parallel systems of education, Polish and Ukrainian? How do you fit in with these... Which of the solutions proposed in this law in particular threatens this?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u511	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u512	As I mentioned, much of the solutions are incompatible with the Polish education system. This really threatens to create a strange structure that would not duplicate the Ukrainian education system or the Polish education system. E.g. such creation by chance, without additional conditions, of international branches, without the permission of the Minister, without indicating what is going on with these students, the absence of an eighth grade exam, then it is not really known what would happen with these students in the recruitment system for Polish schools... These are the elements that are definitely not supposed to work. But most of the solutions proposed here are incompatible with the Polish system and do not really implement the Ukrainian system, it introduces something completely different, indeterminate, without additional provisions, it would be difficult to implement it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u513	Thank you. You spoke to Minister Piontkowski. Are there any other questions? I don't see... [[Can I refer to this...]] In a discussion, but tomorrow. 'Cause I'm gonna call a break if there's a discussion. [[Good.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. Are you signing up? [[No. Thank you.]] Thank you. For the record, senators Janusz Pęcherz, Aleksander Szwed, Małgorzata Kopiczko and Adam Szejnfeld made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Is there a legislative proposal? There isn't. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. You're welcome to make the announcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u514	High Senate! Joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the review of the Law amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine The Senate printing No 697 will take place today, 30 minutes after the adjournment is announced, in room 182. The joint meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the applications submitted at the 40th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on the Education System and certain other laws The Joint Meeting of the Committee on Health and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate on the Humanitarian-Medical Aid Team Act 689 will be held today, 5 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session, in room 182. The joint meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Legislative Committee on the consideration of the amendments tabled at the 40th Senate meeting to the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code will take place today, 15 minutes after the adjournment, in room 217. Joint meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Defence on the consideration of amendments tabled at the 40th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on Pension Provision for Professional Soldiers and their Families, the Act on Pension Supply of Officers I'm not going to mention these many institutions. It will take place today, 20 minutes after the adjournment, in room 217. The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the National Economy and Innovation Committee on the examination of the applications submitted at the Senate meeting to the draft law amending the Law on the rules governing the management of state property will take place 25 minutes after the announcement of a break in the plenary room. The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of the applications submitted at the Senate meeting to the draft law amending the Law on Criminal Procedure, print No 665, will take place 35 minutes after the announcement of a break in the plenary room. Joint meeting of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications submitted at the Senate meeting to the draft law amending the Act on cinematography The print no. 355 will take place 45 minutes after the announcement of a break in the plenary room. The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the requests submitted at the Senate meeting to the draft law amending the Law on Planning and Spatial Planning - print No 215 - will take place one hour after the announcement of a break in the plenary room. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-27-senat-41-1.u515	Thank you. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at 21 minutes 14]]
