ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Aleksandra Gajewska, Marta Kubiak, Robert Gontarz and Franciszek Sterczewski. The first part of the session will be Mr Marta Kubiak and Mr Robert Gontarz. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Franciszek Sterczewski and Marta Kubiak. I consider the minutes of the 56th session of the Sejm to be accepted. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law amending the Real Estate Management Act and some other laws, print no. 2349. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this draft law. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Act - Teacher Charter and some other laws, print No 2357. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the three-minute statements on behalf of the circles in discussions on the agenda items. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at this meeting information on the analysis of the functioning of the Medical Fund, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Public Finance - hour. 10.30, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 10.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Infrastructure - hour 11, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 11, - Health-- hour. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11.30, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 14, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 14, - Health-- hour. 14, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 3.30 p.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 3.30 p.m., - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 17, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 17, - Public Finance - hour. 17, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 17, - Health-- hour. 17, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 18. The Parliamentary Group will also be meeting today. Children's and Youth's Mental Health - hour 12. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u3	Thank you. We proceed to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: The taking of an oath by the President of the National Bank of Poland. High Izbo, may I have your silence? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please keep your conversations quiet. High Izbo! At the 54th session of the Sejm in accordance with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 3 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act on the National Bank of Poland appointed Mr Adam Glapiński as President of the National Bank of Poland. According to Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Act on the National Bank of Poland, the President of the National Bank of Poland covers duties after taking an oath to the Sejm. Called President of the National Bank of Poland, Mr Adam Glapiński applied to take an oath. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to stand and Mr Adam Glapiński to take an oath. [[The Gathered Rise Up]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In my duties as President of the National Bank of Poland, I solemnly swear that the provisions of the Constitution and other laws will be strictly observed and that in all my actions I will pursue the economic development of the Homeland and the well-being of citizens. So help me God. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u5	Thank you very much. I state that the President of the National Bank of Poland, Mr Adam Glapiński, made an oath to the Sejm required by the Act. [[Applause]] Thank you, Mr. President. [[Some Members chant: "Drożyzna! I'll be right back. I'll be right back. I'll be right back. I'll be right back.]] [[Voice from the hall: To kindergarten!]] [[Member Claudia Jachira is spreading leaflets from the gallery]] [[Some Members keep a banner with the inscription: Glapiński must go, some Members keep banners with the inscription: PiS = expensive, some Members keep banners with other inscriptions]] Because of Mrs Jachira's outrageous behaviour on the basis of Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I state that your conduct in the sitting room has violated the seriousness of the Sejm. [[Applause]] I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 14 h 10 min 19]] I'm reopening the session. Members of the European Parliament have come forward with their formal proposals. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u6	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! General Jaruzelski took Teleranka from my generation in the times of the Polish People's Republic. After 30 years, the PiS government wants 4 million Poles to access other channels than government television. It didn't work with lex anti-TVN, it didn't work with the licenses, so now what? Changing the broadcasting system is a good, perfect excuse for what? To make sure that only Kurski's television was received in 4 million homes. You've stopped campaigning about changing the transmission system. Worse still, you've pulled out of the exchange payment system. You've legally secured an extension of your broadcast in the old system. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Formal request for a break and information from the Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about what is going on in this case. We cannot today, as far as the media order system is concerned, equal to the Belarusian standards. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u7	Thank you, sir. Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The interest rates will not increase, I do not understand why citizens are so concerned about the alleged threat of inflation. [[Voice from the room: Citizens.]] The likely most likely scenario is the total absence of changes in interest rates. Zero probability of interest rate increases - March 2021. Inflation is because it is good - April 2021. July 2021 - inflation has no negative impact on Polish portfolios. September 2021 - Increases in rates would be a school mistake. Ladies and gentlemen! Poland cannot afford a president who is so wrong, who was wrong in so many cases. [[Applause]] In any other profession, a person who makes so many mistakes would be disqualified. We can't afford a guy who's doing beletrytics at press conferences. Poles pay for his mistakes every day in shops. Poles who made life decisions about the most important investment (the bell), about building a house...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u9	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u10	...buying apartments, today they're in a difficult position...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u11	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u12	...and this is the guy you chose to be president of the national bank. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u13	Mr President, the choice has been made a long time ago, and I would like to remind you. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! President Glapiński has escaped. He fled the parliament, before which he should tell the truth about why he lied to Poland, that it would be cheap, friendly and without inflation. 24 years - there was no inflation of 14% in Poland. Every Pole and every Polish woman feels this, looking into their wallet. President Glapiński led to a situation for which one should not laugh but cry. He is helped by Prime Minister Morawiecki, because he does not update the budget, although last year he accepted with regard to the budget that inflation would be 3%. Today, when inflation is 14% And it's probably gonna be 15% soon. , 17% , or maybe 20% We should revise the budget in this room. What is the answer of the Minister with the Minister? It's not necessary. You steal from Poles, the economy is limping, and you want Poles to go bankrupt. It's time to stop. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u15	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. [[Members keep a banner with the inscription: Poland's red island of Europe. Average interest rates on new mortgages.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u16	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I request a recess so that President Glapiński can return to the O.R. so that we can explain to him why he is absolutely unfit to be president of the Central Bank in such difficult times. [[Applause]] The rate of inflation is 14%. and the end cannot be seen, the record prices and the increase in the cost of living, the huge increase in loan instalments, melting in the eyes of savings and the spectrum of stagflation - these are the achievements of the central bank in cooperation with the government. Ladies and gentlemen! Poland's red island on the map of Europe. We have the most expensive loans in Europe. This is the work of the Government of Law and Justice and the President of Glapiński. That's the hard truth you don't want to hear. That is the difficult truth that President Glapiński cannot face. [[Do you have any suggestions?]] [[Voice from the room: Do you have any solutions? We're listening.]] We have the most expensive loans in Europe today, and you are responsible... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u17	Thank you very much. Mrs. Member! Both of you, gentlemen! One more such speech and you will be punished. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] This is not a theatre, Mrs Sejm. You want to make summer theater work - it's not here, it's not in the Seym. [[Applause]] There you go, Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation. [[Game in the O.R.]] Louder, because you can't hear. Even louder, because it's not good enough... [[Voice from the room: You will also be punished.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u18	Mrs. Marshal! I would like to request an urgent call for a debate on the coal market and the scale of coal mining in Poland. On 1 June, the Minister of Mining of Colombia expressed his joy at the excellent coal market. Meanwhile, in June 2020, this government closed the mine allegedly for 3 weeks under the pretext of fighting a pandemic. In September 2020, a plan for the total liquidation of mining in Poland was signed, in September 2021 negotiated with Brussels, how to implement this plan in Poland, and in January of this year Minister Sasin issued a regulation for the allocation of PLN 6 billion only this year to reduce coal production in Poland, while by 2031 the government wants to spend 29 billion on not mining coal in Poland at all. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Shame.]] We immediately demand a discussion about why the government is eliminating coal mining in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u19	Thank you. Here you go, Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Opposite! I address the Left in particular. Listen to what the left-wing unions are saying today in OPZZ... [[That there's no inflation.]] ...what unionists say about Contrie, about the Discovery in Bełchatów, about August 80. They defend Polish coal because they do not agree that coal costs 3,000. zł. And why it costs $3,000. Evil? Because this is the policy of the European Union which had Poland shut down mining. [[Game in the O.R.]] And you, instead of helping Poland overcome the crisis, litter and attack the President of the National Bank of Poland. Why? Because you don't like that NBP president defends Polish gold because you want to have a euro. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And why don't you see how much the climate tax cost last night? It cost 84 euros. It was your EU policy that led to the fact that in a moment Poland will be threatening to increase its energy and heat prices by 40-50%. You want to help Poland? Then do not be a German footstool, but fight for Polish interests in the European Parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u21	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Jacek Sasin. [[Applause]] [[Here comes Ostrołęka.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that we still have coal mining in Poland today is due to the rule of law and justice. [[Applause]] When in 2015 we won the elections and formed the government, Polish mining was in a mourning state, it was in ruins. [[Voice from the room: How much was the coal?]] What was your policy, the way of opposition, in relation to Polish mining, blunt and embarrassment, said deputy prime minister of your government Elżbieta Bieńkowska in a conversation recorded on tapes in the restaurant Owl and Friends. [[Voice from the room: 14 mines closed.]] Then she said that the presidents of the state mining companies that you filled in in these positions were just libations. She said, and I quote: they sat, they ate, they drank, they smoked, they smoked until everything... I don't want to keep quoting because there's a dirty word coming out here. That's what your mining policy looked like. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! We today rebuild Polish mining after years of extinction. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Some Members chant: Lies! Lies! Lies!]] The money that Mr Bosak was just talking about here is money to save mining so that we can continue mining, not only at the same level as today, but higher. We are planning and implementing investments that will allow us to have more coal in the coming years. And, ladies and gentlemen, please don't disturb us, we will deal with this, even though you are disturbing us in the European forum. You guys were the first to talk about shutting down mines. You guys were talking about us keeping these mines out of the question. We didn't listen to you. And it turned out to be good for Poland, for Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: 14 mines closed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u23	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Defence on the Government's draft Act on the Transport of Dangerous Goods by Air (Prints Nos 2308 and 2313). Before I ask Mr Mariusz Trepka to report to the committee, I am announcing a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 30 hours 10 min 32]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u24	We continue to consider item 2 of the agenda. I would very much like to ask Mr Mariusz Trepka to present a report to the committee. At the same time, I ask all those who are not interested in this point to silence the conversations, possibly to move them out of the Seym. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Defence on the Government's draft law on the transport of dangerous goods by air, print no. 2308 and 2313. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 31 May 2022, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Defence for First Reading. The Commissions of Infrastructure and National Defence at its meeting on 7 June 2022 examined the draft law. The proposal on the need to regulate the transport of dangerous goods by air in the Republic of Poland results from the need to adopt comprehensive legal solutions for the duties of the President of the Civil Aviation Office, hereinafter referred to as the President of the Office, resulting from the provisions of Annex 18 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation, drawn up in Chicago on 7 December 1944, OJ. from 1959 poz. 212, late. as amended, hereinafter referred to as Annex 18, in conjunction with the technical instructions for the safe transport of dangerous goods by air, hereinafter referred to as the technical instructions, including supplements, additives and errats for those technical instructions. The national regulations currently in place in this area are dispersed and relate only to selected aspects of the transport of dangerous goods by air. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u26	I would like to ask you to stop, sir. Once again, I would like to address all those who really make it impossible for you to speak. Move the discussion out of the Seym, possibly quiet it down. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u27	Thank you, Marshal. The purpose of the proposed regulation is to increase safety in the transport of dangerous goods by air, including in domestic transport. Currently, the Republic of Poland does not fully implement all provisions resulting from the Convention on International Civil Aviation, drawn up in Chicago on 7 December 1944 in the field of the transport of dangerous goods by air. This transport is regulated in many legal acts of different rank, which does not benefit the coherence and clarity of the rules. Such a situation makes it difficult for the addressees of those provisions to understand and apply them. It is necessary to adopt a new separate law setting out all the requirements of Annex 18 and the technical instructions. The Act dedicated exclusively to the transport of dangerous goods by air will allow, first of all, to focus in a single legal act the whole of the above mentioned. issues. The uniform regulation to standardise the transport of dangerous goods by air with a single legal act of the rank of a law will also facilitate the interpretation of the law. Addressees of legal standards will not be forced, as they are now, to seek the right provisions among the entire catalogue of legal acts, each of which concerns regulated matter only to a limited extent. This will allow for a systematic ordering of the matter in question and will help to clarify the rules. The scope of the proposed regulation shall include rules on the conduct of national and international transport of dangerous goods by air, including: rules on the supervision of the President of the Office and the President of the State Agency for Atomistics on compliance with the rules on the transport of dangerous goods by air in civil aviation; restrictions on the transport of dangerous goods by air with respect to the obligations of air operators, their subcontractors, designated postal operators and consignors; the possibility of carrying out flights of civil aircraft for the purposes of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland with dangerous goods from military airports and to military airports; rules and procedures for the granting of approvals and derogations for the transport of dangerous goods by air in accordance with the requirements of Annex 18 and technical instructions; the scope of duties of air operators, designated postal operators and consignors; the obligation of persons involved in the transport of dangerous goods by air to receive training in accordance with the requirements of Annex 18, including a group of persons - staff of security companies - responsible for the screening of luggage at airports; rules for obtaining the privileges of instructors conducting the safe transport of dangerous goods by air; the Agency for the carriage of designated authorities of the public by air. The project implements the art. 37 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Chicago on 7 December 1944. Mr Marshal, the project is not notified under the procedure laid down in the Council of Ministers Regulation of 23 December 2002 on the functioning of the national system of notification of standards and legal acts. The project is compatible with European Union law. It shall not be required to submit a draft to the competent authorities and institutions of the European Union, including the European Central Bank, in order to obtain an opinion, to notify, consult or agree. The Commissions: Infrastructure and National Defence at the meeting on 7 June agreed to apply and without undue delay to the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u28	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Mariusz Trepek, who is acting as a representative of the club this time, has the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club in relation to the proposed law on the transport of dangerous goods by air. As rapporteur for the committee, I presented the main principles of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, the Law and Justice Club wants to continue working on this bill and will support it. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to make five amendments on which we will proceed in committee. I think this bill will help improve the transport of dangerous goods by air. It'll be consolidated in one place. The authorities will not have to look in individual legal acts for what can be included in just this single legal act. I think the other clubs will also support this bill and we will finally adopt it, but at the moment, Mr. Marshal, I am making five amendments and ask them to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u30	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Maciej Lasek will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the Proceded Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods by Air is necessary for a number of reasons, and for practical reasons, and for those concerning each country, i.e. safety reasons. The government has also recognised this need and presented to the High House a proposal that had been launched six years ago. Yes, you haven't misheard. On 29 July 2016, the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction submitted the draft of the Act to more than 120 entities for consultation. The consultation lasted 30 days. After 6 years, at least this is the justification attached to the text of the project, we can see the result of this work. It is worth considering what is worth the consultation carried out so long ago, but what is important is that further work has been carried out on this law at all. Why is it important for the transport of dangerous goods by air to have its own bill? As already mentioned, Poland is currently not fully implementing all provisions resulting from the Convention on International Civil Aviation in the field of the transport of dangerous goods by air. This transport is standardized in many legal acts of different rank, with references to Air Law, to the Chicago Convention and to many regulations. This situation does not benefit from the consistency and clarity of the rules. It also makes it difficult for consumers to understand and apply these provisions. With this Act, issues relating to the transport of dangerous goods by air instead of six regulations and references to Aviation Law and the Chicago Convention will find a solution and standardization in a single law, and entities involved in such activities in one document will find information on rights and obligations related thereto. The President of the Aviation Authority will also have specified obligations on the basis of Annex 18 to the above-mentioned Convention. Thus, this law should fully implement international legislation on the ground of national law and create a clear law to enhance state security and improve the coherence of the legal system. Are the proposed solutions without VAT? Probably not. Representatives of companies providing such services point to a number of problems, such as the need to clarify certain definitions, so that there is not too much freedom in the interpretation of the law. It is known that the less precise this law is, the greater the area of abuse. The analysis of the work intensity of new tasks for the implementation of all the provisions of the proposed law will require employment of 19 employees at the Civil Aviation Office. But we can read in the explanatory memorandum to the Act that in the first year the President of the Civil Aviation Office, taking into account the burden of the state budget, will try to fulfil these obligations when employing only three additional persons. However, with an increasing number of entities, broadcasters, instructors, agents, employment may not be sufficient to fully implement the provisions concerning the control of supervised entities in accordance with the provisions of the proposed law. It is incomprehensible to me why, with a minimum employment of 19 people, the government believes that three people will succeed in this task. Do you really think that one person is able to cope with the responsibilities of six people with the increased Byzantine expenses of the Prime Minister's law firm and other authorities? The employment of 18 additional specialists - professionals, not relatives and acquaintances of the rabbit - did not reduce the state budget too much and could significantly improve its safety. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 34 It is also proposed that the President of the Civil Aviation Office should be able to carry out inspections, including at civil airports and military airports, under supervision. In this case, I wonder whether the Ministry of Defence has abdicated or whether the Minister has so much confidence in the activities of the President of the Civil Aviation Office and allows the possibility to inspect military activities. Will the persons carrying out the inspection have adequate preparation and certification to carry out such checks? Given the situation of the war in Ukraine, this is quite surprising. And last but not least, I have an interest in good law. Of the 120 interested parties, only four made any comments. I can't believe everyone believes that this bill is uncorrectable because it's perfect. Maybe it's just easier to complain about the wrong law than to get involved in making it. The Civic Coalition Club will support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left, will now speak. [[There's a mistake, Robert Obaz.]] There's a mistake. So we ask you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government's draft law on the transport of dangerous goods by air covers comprehensive issues related to the transport of dangerous goods by air. The proposed regulations clearly define rules, requirements, obligations and restrictions in the area of the transport of dangerous goods by air. The project can have a real impact on the safety of the transport of dangerous goods by air, including domestic transport. To date, national regulations have been dispersed and have only applied to selected aspects of the transport of dangerous goods. However, they did not fulfil their obligation to implement international rules on the ground of national law, so interpretation and compliance were difficult. There is no doubt that this issue needs to be reformed and improved. The government draft law fulfils all the requirements of Annex 18 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation, drawn up in Chicago on 7 December 1944. The design shall also take into account the provisions of the technical instructions for the safe transport of dangerous goods by air. The creation of a law focusing solely on the transport of dangerous goods by air will allow the whole issue to be concentrated in a single legal act. Uniform rules will also facilitate the interpretation of the law. The new rules cover all operators involved in the transport of dangerous goods by air. We are talking about air operators, airport managers, ground handling agents, designated postal operators, broadcasters, including producers of hazardous materials and trainers. The project defines e.g. rules on the supervision of the President of the Office and the President of the State Agency for Atomistics on compliance with the rules on the transport of dangerous goods by air in civil aviation; restrictions on the transport of dangerous goods by air with regard to the obligations of air operators, their subcontractors, designated postal operators and consignors; the possibility of operating civil aircraft for the purpose of the Armed Forces with dangerous goods from military airports and to military airports; the rules and procedures for granting approvals and derogations from the transport of dangerous goods by air as required; the scope of the obligations of air operators, designated postal operators and consignors; the rules for obtaining the privileges of instructors in the field of safe transport of dangerous goods by air; the way of training and testing of persons involved in the transport of dangerous goods by air; methods of informing about accidents, incidents and incidents with dangerous materials; security measures for hazardous materials transported by air, i.e. the amount of fines for infringements; the obligation of persons involved in the transport of dangerous goods by air to receive training as required. It is worth to lean on the situation of the Polish Post staff, which, as a designated operator in Poland, is to carry out training of employees dealing with such shipments according to the provisions of the Act. According to the draft law, Poland Post will be obliged, even though it does not accept all dangerous goods, to provide training for all employees who serve shipments from abroad accepted in Poland. There are about 50,000 employees working in post offices - about 6,000. and at other stages of the process, i.e. From the post office to the transport of such goods to the airport. If the law comes into force in this form, the Polish Post Office will have a real problem with the training of employees, because this operation carries huge costs and also requires a huge amount of time and organization. In addition, representatives of the Polish Post have requested that the date of entry into force of the Act be postponed to a later date than proposed on 1 August 2022 due to the consequences and problems which may arise due to the need to implement the Act. This date of entry into force of the Act - I do not know what is in the amendments - also questioned the Legislative Office because if everyone had used their constitutional time, the Act would not have entered into force at that time. The proposed rules will also have an impact on the public finance sector, as the expenditure of the public finance sector will increase, as indicated in point 6 attached to the draft impact assessment. However, it should be borne in mind that the State budget is provided with revenue from fees and fines collected in connection with infringements in the transport of dangerous goods by air, as well as the benefits of increasing the supervision of operators transporting dangerous goods by air. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Left Club supports the government's draft law on the transport of dangerous goods by air. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Obaz, of course, presented the position of the Left Club. High Izbo! Our discussions are attended by young people from schools in Brest, who came at the invitation of Mrs Józefa Szczurek-Żelazko. Let's give them a warm welcome. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Krajewski will now present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u35	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Polish Coalition - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, the Conservatives' position on the report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Defence on the Government's draft law on the transport of dangerous goods by air, prints No. 2308 and 2313. The Parliamentary Committees on Infrastructure and National Defence gave a positive opinion on Tuesday at their meeting of the government draft law on the transport of dangerous goods by air. In fact, they accepted only editorial and legislative amendments, other substantive amendments were not there. And it is good that the project treats issues related to the transport of dangerous materials by air. At the moment, in various legal acts, different rank of this information was found. As it has already been repeated here from this pulpit, the fact that it is tidying up is rather positive. Of course, one can ask why it is so late, but better late than later. These are necessary changes which also give the possibility to meet the requirements of Annex 18 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Chicago on 7 December 1944. This draft also takes into account the provisions of the technical instructions for the safe transport of dangerous goods by air. This law regulates all these issues. The new rules cover all entities involved in the transport of dangerous goods by air, including air carriers managing airports, ground handling agents, designated postal operators, broadcasters, manufacturers of dangerous goods and dispatch editors containing dangerous materials, trainers, instructors. And these are all important and important things, but as is the important transport, the transport of dangerous goods, so important is the carriage of safe other passengers, goods. And here you can't ignore the subject we talked about two months ago, and we're going back to him again today. The Polish Air Navigation Agency withdraws from agreements which it had previously concluded with flight controllers. If there is no adequate security, these flights will also be dangerous for Poles and Poles - and for those who are in the air, and for those who care about it. According to the PaŻP controllers, it does not agree to six points of agreement. It goes on, among other things. to equalise their salary to inflation or to introduce a programme that would enable them to move from the controller's position to other tasks after they have completed their 57th year of age. Once again, the lack of this agreement could result in more than 100 controllers leaving work after 10 July. The subject of this agreement, which was concluded at the end of April, when everyone wondered whether they would fly to Maya, whether they would be able to return from their travels, often also business trips, comes back like a boomerang. PAŻP is the only institution in the country that trains and employs air traffic controllers. They serve 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, ensuring the safety of passengers close to 3,000. planes moving over Poland. Over 334,000 air space is controlled and supervised by it. km Of course, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition will support this project, ordering and improving those issues that had to be sorted out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u36	Thank you very much, sir. Now Mr Krzysztof Tuduj and Mr Grzegorz Braun will make a statement on behalf of the Confederate circle. First, Mr Krzysztof Tuduj.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u37	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are talking about a law on the transport of dangerous goods by air, which is in fact the implementation of the standards of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, so-called. the Chicago Convention, more specifically Annex 18 on the safe transport of dangerous goods by air. It contains a number of detailed solutions, most of which have been mentioned here. The solutions introduced are undoubtedly needed, these regulations are ordering, which has already been underlined, legal standards scattered after various legal acts. So that the introduction of this international law is, in principle, considered beneficial. This should be done a long time ago. The update of this Annex 18 took place in 2011, 6 years ago there was a public consultation on this subject, a broad consultation - and that is the advantage - but it really should be updated. If the Minister were concerned about the quality of this regulation, this update of the public consultation would probably be carried out. On the other hand, I would like to add that, as a rule, this type of international cooperation, in which there are voluntary standards, and we are willing to do so, is very beneficial in contrast to the law imposed on us by the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun will continue speaking on behalf of the circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u39	God bless you! Especially for all those involved in transporting hazardous materials and substances. I will be speaking here with the voice of caution dictated by suspicion. I said, why now? What couldn't have been done before, over the years, since we signed the Chicago Convention? Why is this spring cleaning all of a sudden? Of course, I can't assume that this is dictated by some war needs that you want to pursue as usual in secret from your citizens. And the question is: Is it a convention, or is it a law that is intended to serve the Polish state, Polish carriers, hosts, or is it a law that is supposed to seal the Polish security system, opening it up to operations carried out by external operators? And that's why, as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to present this caution without backing this bill until I find out what you're really up to, what you're up to, a PiS with appetizers.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u40	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will now present the position of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u41	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the governmental draft law on the transport of dangerous goods by air. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law presented by the government concerns de facto the overall regulation of the transport of dangerous goods by air in the Republic of Poland. As the applicant points out in the explanatory memorandum, the regulations are now fragmented, and the 1944 Chicago Convention on International Civil Aviation talks about more regulation than is currently the case. For this reason, it is interesting that it took six years to prepare this law. Of course, it was not a public consultation, because it lasted only 30 days and was not successful. However, this shows that, in matters important for air transport safety, the government is delaying more than enough to present the relevant regulations, and we are assessing this negatively. The project itself, as I mentioned, integrates legislation on the transport of dangerous goods by air in a single document. Today they are included in several different acts, and such regulation results in problems in the correct application of the rules. Therefore, the inclusion of the subject matter in one act and the presentation by the government of the draft law of Poland 2050 is considered justified. The Act contains a number of provisions related to, inter alia, with the rules for the exercise of oversight by the President of the Civil Aviation Office and the President of the State Agency for Atomic Energy of compliance with the rules on the transport of these materials and the rules on restrictions and derogations in transport. It also contains provisions on the performance for the Armed Forces of civil aircraft with hazardous materials from military airports and to military airports and lays down the obligations of transport participants and sanctions. Of course, this solution, the whole of this bill, is positive, but unfortunately the government did not avoid certain errors. They include, for example, the date of entry into force of the law. This deadline was proposed on 1 August 2022. If we consider it reasonable to respect constitutional rules, which I also urge the government to do here, it is too early, because both the Senate and the President have the time to get acquainted and decide on the bill. Unfortunately, the date scheduled for August 1 makes it impossible. So we urge the government to make this change. Nevertheless, Poland 2050 will support the law in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u42	Thank you very much. Now, let's get to the questions. 11 people signed up for them. Would any of you like to sign up? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. Mr Grzegorz Braun will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u43	So I'm going back to the question you're asking: what are you up to when the decisions of the heads of government like the atomic agency, civil aviation are at stake here? This is serious. At the moment, much is undoubtedly happening in the field of not only propaganda. Some actions and some messages are self-fulfilling predictions, perhaps those that would come true through provocation. The question is: Do threats of use of unconventional weapons at the front of the Moscow War with the Ukrainians have anything to do with your sudden surge of interest in these matters? Does it have something to do with the war beyond our eastern border that you consider (the Bell) to be particularly urgent to facilitate the transfer of nuclear materials to foreign carriers across the territory of the Republic of Poland? Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u44	Thank you. Mr Rafał Adamczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The most important solutions proposed in the project include: focusing the whole issue in one piece of legislation. The proposed rules are intended to cover all entities involved in the transport of dangerous goods by air. Minister, I have a question: please tell me whether there are any operators who will be excluded from the transport of dangerous goods after the implementation of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u46	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act is largely devoted to training and permits to work with dangerous materials. Training, proper qualifications - all this on paper seems simple. I would like to get an answer to the question about the staffing opportunities needed to carry out a large number of training courses in a rather short time. Will the training system be able to address such a challenge so that there is no situation involving paralysis or imposition of penalties? What will be the price of training one employee? I would like to refer to the example of Polish Post, which employs tens of thousands of people - expenditure on such training can amount to tens of millions of PLN. Tell me about the budgets of institutions that do not have planned (the bell) such expenditure for the current year. Who will cover the cost of these trainings? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Kopiec, Left, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u49	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Minister for Strikes, meadows and Horal expulsions! The Act assumes training about 50,000. Polish Post employees until 1 August this year. I ask for specific written responses to what measures have been secured for these trainings. In what mode will these trainings be carried out according to what timetable? What happens if you don't make it? Will the Minister disappear again from the committee, put his head in the sand, as in the case of the PAZP conflict - the flight controllers for whom he is personally responsible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question about Polish Post, because it is an institution that is de facto subject to one of the ministers, it is supervised by the government, by the Minister of Infrastructure. It was at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, which dealt with this project that representatives of the Polish Post presented doubts concerning, firstly, the training of all workers in the field of hazardous materials, although in fact only a small group can potentially deal with this. Secondly, they considered and provided information that it was impossible to train all employees by the end of the year until the date of entry into force of the Act. First of all, was this project even consulted with Polish Post? Was he consulted in terms of Polish Post at the Ministry? Secondly, do you provide for any derogations (Bingle) in the training of all employees? 'Cause I don't think that's necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u52	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Could you give us two reasons for the preparation of this government project, especially in the context of the 1944 Chicago Convention, for this law? Secondly, Chapter 6 of this Act talks about the training of persons who are involved in the transport of dangerous goods by air. The whole cycle of training is described, who carries out it, under what rules. But it is also said that this training is valid for 24 months. For this reason, I wanted to ask: Given the number of people trained, the costs and scope of this training are not possible for this training to be valid for more than 24 months (The Bell) so that training can be carried out and that the validity of this training is maintained in relation to more people, for those who need it for this transport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Coalition Poland, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u55	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have one question because we are talking a lot about security here, and we are also talking about the need for this law. The whole legislative process, as we have learned, has been going on for a good few years, which is strange because the rulers can sometimes carry out a number of laws in this House within a few hours. We've had this experience lately. I have a question about what it will look like to secure small airports such as my airport in Bydgoszcz or smaller airports in other districts, in other areas. What will the implementation of these rules look like there? The airport in Bydgoszcz is special because, in addition to civilian functions, it also performs very important military functions, so my question is about how it will look like to secure and implement this law precisely in the case of small airports, which, after all, (The Bell) according to what is being prepared in connection with the Central Communication Port, are to cease to exist or will be brought to the rank of insignificant airports. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u56	Thank you very much, sir. The question will now be asked by Marek Dyduch of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u57	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Dangerous materials are among others. explosives, inflammatory materials, gases, oxidation materials, toxic, radioactive, infectious, corrosive materials. It's a lot of materials. Until now, regulations on this issue have been scattered, and various institutions have been responsible for the transport of these materials. I have the first question: Were these institutions controlled in some way and was there a balance sheet in respect of all the hazardous materials that were carried over our heads through Poland as well as those carried by other countries? I have a second question: If this law concerns the whole process, will there be a centre that will not only control it but also record it? Will this record apply only to our country (the bell) or to the whole European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u58	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Maciej Lasek.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u59	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have this question: How many incidents involving the misuse of dangerous goods by air have been detected in recent years? I remember the statistics that were kept until 2015. There was a case of a small aircraft transporting, commercially transporting, isotopes for radiotherapy, falling off the runway, and close enough to catch fire. The lack of complete information about the cargo carried could also lead to a threat to the lives of firefighters who might suffer in such a situation during rescue operations. The important thing is that if we introduce such a law, we should know what scale of violations, errors, incidents are going on. I would very much ask (the bell) for a written answer to the question of how many such incidents have been in the last seven years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u60	Thank you very much. I do not see Mr Jan Szopiński in the Chamber, which is an event, because he is always present and asks questions. We need to see if something's wrong... [[Maybe he didn't feel well. I'll check it out. I'll check later.]] ...but before that, Mr Łącki will ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! I am addressing the government side, not specifically the Minister, because I am going to talk not about air transport, but more about maritime transport. I remind you that the town of Świnoujście will be lucky or unfortunate that at the turn of the year a tunnel will open to this city. Tourists and residents will be happy, but the city authorities will have a headache because they will be able to keep this tunnel, and it will cost about a dozen million PLN a year. From that day on, the Polish state will no longer finance the ferries that are now going to Świnoujście. I would like to remind you that all hazardous materials will continue to be transported to Świnoujście by these ferries, that also people on bicycles or pedestrians will be transported to Świnoujście by these ferries. For this reason, I call once again on the government to undertake rapid work on the revision of the Ferry Transport Act (Dzwonek), which will continue to co-finance the ferry crossing to Świnoujście by the Polish State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u62	Mr Artur Łącki promised to see what was happening to Mr Jan Szopiński. [[There it is. Is something wrong?]] We are calm now that you are all right and we invite you to the podium to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking of the transport of hazardous materials by air, I would like to ask how the Polish government made our airspace available for the transport of Russian fuel supplying the Hungarian nuclear power plant. Prime Minister Morawiecki teaches all governments of the European Union that they should tighten their positions towards Russia, while the Polish government, wanting to please Hungary once again, allows Russian aircraft loaded with uranium rods to fly over our country. When the case became public, the Polish government made a statement that the consent was given at the request of the European Union. This statement is strongly contradicted by EU officials. Why was such consent given? Why were the Poles lied about it at the request of the European Union? Minister, I would ask for a written reply (the bell) and I would be obliged to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u64	Thank you very much. That concludes a series of questions. The questions and club speeches will be addressed by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, Minister Marcin Horała and the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Mariusz Trepka. We're asking the Minister now.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to begin by thanking you Members for their work in committee and for the majority of this debate. The debate was mostly, although perhaps not 100%, substantive. It concerned the issues included in the submission. Unfortunately, not always, not for all bill projects this happens. It's a good thing it was now. I will refer to the votes in the discussion first. These are two specific topics that Mr Lasek has raised. Why will three people be employed in the Civil Aviation Office in the first year rather than the target number? The reason is obvious. Firstly, the law enters into force during the year, so it will necessarily involve less at the beginning than it would have been during the full year of its validity. Secondly, it's about professionals. Not everyone can do this job. It is not that every day you can find and hire a very large number of professionals. Finding the right people who meet the criteria and hiring them will be a process that will be spread over time. I will refer to the control of the Civil Aviation Office at military airports, which you have been so surprised by. Of course, it is a matter of particular and probably rare cases when civilian units carrying dangerous materials for some reason, for example, I don't know, technical, will have to use the military airport. The point is that in such a case the civil aviation authorities will have access to them and be able to check them out. Of course, this will not concern military, military or dangerous goods such as ammunition for military aircraft, weapons, etc. It's just a situation where civil transport, like at civil airports, will take place from a military airport. A whole series of votes of various Members appeared in connection with the time of the entry into force of the Act. Indeed, the legislative process is somewhat slower than the applicants originally intended. I know that an amendment has been tabled in the discussion, which slightly postpones the entry into force of the law. It is of course the decision of your Members to accept the amendment, but the Ministry will recommend that it be adopted. A few months' extension of the time of entry into force of the Act at the present time is justified. Mr Stefan Krajewski has already addressed this topic in his speech. He no longer referred to the subject matter, namely the Polish Air Navigation Agency. All I can say is, please don't spread information that has already been compromised. The PAVP shall not withdraw from any arrangements. The content of the new remuneration rules agreed with the trade unions was addressed, in accordance with the procedure for the adoption of those rules, in an appropriate manner, to the opinion of the bodies empowered to evaluate such documents. Really, there's no need to mix it up and create extra unnecessary emotions. Mr Braun asked what we were up to and what we were up to. We've been caught by the Member. I confess. It is about the transport of supplies for this Israeli bunker under the CPK, which the Member had previously detected. In addition, the Member said that he did not know what the bill was about. I think I can only agree with this statement by the Member. Mr Rafał Adamczyk asked if there are operators who will be excluded from the transport of dangerous goods. There isn't. There are general rules, general procedures. Any operator that meets the criteria will be able to carry out such transport. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek and other Members have asked about issues relating to postal workers. I know there was a statement at the committee meeting about 50,000. Mail workers who will need training. First of all, we disagree with this analysis because it's not like 50,000. postal workers are involved in the transport of dangerous goods. Secondly, the powers granted in the old legal regime continue to apply. They will not be automatically extinguished as of the date of entry into force of the new law. They will be valid for as long as it was foreseen. The powers remain valid, so there will be no need for rapid training to be carried out before the law enters into force. The question was whether it was consulted with the post office. This was consulted with the Ministry of State Assets, to which the Ministry of Post is subject. Those comments were made. The conversations took place. No related problem has been reported. But I think that these concerns are definitely out of line. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski asked what reasons were behind the fact that the Chicago Convention... I understand that Mr... Maybe it's a misunderstanding. The Chicago Convention is several dozen years old, and it would indeed be possible to wonder why it is now intended to make changes, but it is not just about the Convention itself, but about Annex 18 to the Convention, which is updated every few years. In fact, there are new requirements that we must, so to speak, consummate, to which we must respond, among others. by means of this amendment. There was also a question as to whether training could be valid for more than 24 months. Unfortunately, the term of validity is precisely due to the legitimacy of international law. Mr Dariusz Kurzawa asked about the impact on airports. As far as airport security is concerned, this amendment doesn't change anything. She's neutral. On the other hand, I must strongly protest in relation to the thesis which the honourable Member has put forward from this speaker. The point is that in connection with the creation of CPK regional airports in Poland are to cease to exist or to decrease their rank. There's no such thing. The fact that such false thesis will repeat many times will not make it true. On the other hand, various regional airports in Poland have serious problems. Each specialist will say that about 1 million passengers a year under Polish conditions is the number that makes the airport profitable, starts to earn money, there is an economic sense of its functioning. We have many airports in Poland, which not only in the pandemic, but also in the peak of air traffic, in the record year 2019 have not even come close to such a number. This, of course, causes deep deficits. Airports generate losses, they have their problems, but the CPK isn't guilty of anything. The CPK, as you know, isn't functioning yet, and the airports are having problems, so please don't drop it on the CPK. Mr Dyduch asked about the records. Perhaps I did not fully understand what records it would be about. In general, this has been in place so far, and will continue to function in principle, on the basis of a simple request for consent to the carriage of such materials. Such consent shall be given or not. Of course, records in terms of a list of applications and consents exist, while some specific statistical studies on this basis have not yet been carried out. But there is probably no obstacle to such a study, but that so far no institution or entity has asked the Civil Aviation Authority with such a need that this particular area requires some specific analysis or specific statistical studies. On the other hand, the register, the list of these applications and consents is, of course, they do not disappear at the time of issue. Mr Lasek asked about the number of transport incidents and asked for a written reply. We'll try to get that information from the Civil Aviation Authority and give it to you. On the other hand, as regards the example of the incident that you have mentioned here, it must be said that this law will allow the carrier who behaved irresponsiblely, e.g. without permission or without notification, he carried out carriages of some category of dangerous goods, even if he imposed quite a severe financial penalty, which was not before. So the number of such incidents, or the potential danger of such incidents, will undoubtedly be reduced by the introduction of this law. Mr Łącki, the funding of the ferry in Świnoujście - I can only say that I have taken note of the comments made by Mr Świnoujście. This is absolutely even an industry not linked to the subject matter of the present submission. And Mr Shopiński, also completely outside the subject of the submission. I can only repeat: the rules of sanctions have been adopted at European level, the rules for granting exceptions have also been adopted at European level. These rules, these rules in the cases referred to by your Member, have been applied. This does not apply only to transports to Hungary. Such requests were made by Slovakia, for example by the Czech Republic. Generally speaking, the whole point is that we impose sanctions on Russia, not on Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia or other countries. Bringing them into crisis in their energy systems would be an enemy move against e.g. Slovakia, not Russia, and Poland does not want to make hostile movements towards Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic or other countries of our region. They're not the ones who attacked Ukraine, they're not the aggressor here, the aggressor is Russia. In this case, for Russia, this case was quite indifferent, here it was... Our partners from the European Union have asked us to do so, on the basis of, once again, principles, regulations and exceptions to these principles defined at European level. And they are here in accordance with these provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u66	Thank you very much, Minister. Because Mr Grzegorz Braun felt troubled... [[No, not at all.]] Oh, no? Then what is it? [[In corrigendum mode.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u67	Mr. Marshal Venerable! Minister! Well, you can see that the boot and impudence of the PiS ministers are growing with at least arithmetic progress over this term. Minister! I asked a specific question: What could not be done, done, transported, swept away in the previously existing legal state? What is so urgent about this law? The servants have always dealt with these things. You don't need a Polish postman to send the Polish Post, let's give it a 3D-printed atomic bomb to some sensitive leader. Question: "What could not be done in the existing legal framework?" Of course, to the main question, what is the relationship of this legislative diarrhea with the war of Moskali with the Ukrainians, of course you will not answer sincerely (the bell), so I no longer ask. That's the question, if you please, here, from this bleacher, and maybe in writing, some paper will be a favor. Thank you. Godspeed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u68	Thank you very much. And the Minister will answer the question again. [[In corrigendum mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u69	Honourable Mr. Messenger! Well, to answer your question... Of course, the written answer will be prepared and delivered, while the question of what could not be done is somewhat wrong. Of course, this system was functioning, but it was functioning, first, under conditions of dispersal after various other legal acts governing the area, second, in principle in a state of non-consummation of all provisions of the updated Annex to the Chicago Convention, and thirdly, in the absence of a legal regime, for example, to enforce compliance with these rules. impose penalties if someone does not comply with the rules. And the argument that suddenly, it is extremely misplaced here, because the legislative process in this case lasted for several years, and as some Members rightly pointed out, it was very long. Well, unfortunately, with such very professional, substantive topics, sometimes this reconciliation process requires the involvement of a whole range of experts, a whole range of actors, they exchange these opinions and the legislative process is prolonged. That's what happened in this case. So this process is not particularly fast, but unfortunately, I regret this very much, especially in the case of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Mariusz Trepek, the rapporteur of the committee, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u71	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank all the clubs for this substantive discussion and your Members, with little exceptions. I thank the Minister for having responded to what was not related to the draft law, as well as to the Members concerned. I think that on these amendments which have been tabled by the Law and Justice Club, we will proceed to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Defence, so that this date of entry into force of the Act will also be shifted accordingly to ensure that all legal requirements are met. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u72	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Defence to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft act on social economy (print No 2321). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Ms Anita Czerwińska, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft act on social economy is the first comprehensive regulation of this issue in Poland. Thanks to the regulations prepared, the social economy will continue to develop and become an important instrument of active social policy. The foundation of social economics is sensitivity to the needs of people and families in difficult situations of life. Thanks to the social economy, they receive support, but also the opportunity to be independent, restore dignity and develop their own potential. Support for people at risk of social exclusion requires diverse and comprehensive action, but also flexibility and willingness to listen to specific needs. Social economics, thanks to its bottom-up nature, fits well into these assumptions, and its impact is particularly visible where other instruments may not be sufficient. The potential of social economy is due to strong roots in the local community, its potential, initiative and creativity. With the support provided for in the Act, this potential can be used effectively to permanently change the situation of people so far outside the mainstream of working and social life. The last 20 years have been a process of social economy development in Poland, which focuses on activities for local communities, but is also focused on achieving important social goals. The pace and directions of social economic development were due to economic and social challenges faced by Poles during this period - e.g. unemployment at the threshold of the 21st century. Dynamic socio-economic changes as well as consistent perception of social economy as an increasingly important element of active social policy have led to the development of the Polish model of social economy. In the centre there is concern for people and families at risk of social exclusion. Recent years, especially the effects of pandemics and aggression on Ukraine, have shown how important the social economy sector can play a role in the functioning of local communities. These challenges have also shown that a stable legal framework is needed to facilitate the proper targeting of support for these actors and to provide conditions for further development. The adoption of the Social Economics Act is not only needed, but also urgent, as the implementation of the National Plan for Reconstruction and Enhancing Immunity is about to begin. The social economy reform was included in this plan. KPO funds may become another impetus for the development of the social economy sector, but it is necessary to enter into force in order to reach them. The solutions proposed in the draft concern grassroots social activity and the project was therefore prepared and consulted in such a way as to listen carefully to the various voices of the social economy sector. Local government units were also an important partner. Thanks to the dialogue, it was possible to prepare a draft law taking into account the achievements to date in support of social economics. The proposed project will provide a stable basis for further development of this sector. The solutions contained in the draft act on social economy are intended primarily to achieve two fundamental objectives. The first is the creation of new jobs for people at risk of social exclusion - e.g. persons with disabilities, unemployed, poor people in social enterprises and providing them with adequate support for reintegration. This objective is clearly part of an active social policy that enables people and families in difficulty to regain their independence and their ability to play social and professional roles. The second objective is to develop the involvement of social economy players, especially social enterprises, in the provision of social services to the local community. Social services is an important area of activity that determines the level of life of Poles, but also the potential of social and economic development. That is why it is so important that an element of increasing the availability and quality of social services in Poland is the commitment to providing them with entities whose primary purpose, essence, is to act for the benefit of the general good. The draft law defines key elements of the social economy sector, which have not yet had regulatory powers. One of them is the concept of social economy. According to the definition, it is understood as an activity of social economy actors in favour of the local community in terms of job creation, reintegration of people at risk of social exclusion and social services. This activity may be carried out in the form of an economic activity, but also in the form of a public benefit or other activity for consideration, e.g. in terms of culture or education. The definition is therefore broad in nature and allows for a wide range of activities. The Act also sets out a catalogue of social economic operators. It includes non-governmental organisations, social cooperatives, labour cooperatives, reintegration units, i.e. centres for social inclusion and social inclusion clubs, workshops for occupational therapy, occupational activities, and rural hostel circles. This catalogue is much wider and includes all key players in the social economy sector. The legal arrangements will support the recruitment and reintegration of people at risk of social exclusion in social enterprises. This group will include among others. unemployed people, people with disabilities, self-emancipated from foster care or mental disorders, poor people, graduates of these centres and clubs of social inclusion, but also refugees. An important element of regulation and at the same time a key formula for the social economy sector is the social enterprise. The status of such a company will be available to social economic operators who operate for the purposes of reintegration and therefore employ at least 30% people at risk of social exclusion or operate for services and thus provide social services to the local community. Moreover, they employ at least three employees, do not share profits between employees, members or shareholders, but allocate them to reintegration or development. In addition, they implement an individual reintegration plan for workers at risk of social exclusion, on whom public support has been granted, and ensure the impact of employees on the entire decision-making process within the consultative body. These conditions clearly indicate that social enterprises will be an important partner for local government in the implementation of social policy tasks. The status of a social enterprise will be granted by the voivode after the administrative procedure has been carried out. We have also provided specific support instruments for social enterprises. They will be able to count on public support. It will include: support for the employment of people at risk of social exclusion, funding from the European Labour Fund and the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in the form of measures for the creation of a job, funding for the remuneration of persons targeted by district labour offices, reimbursement of social security contributions for workers at risk of social exclusion. This support will also include a tax credit which takes the form of a corporate income tax exemption in relation to the social enterprise's income allocated to social and occupational reintegration activities. The solutions contained in the draft law also provide for a reduction in payments to the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities for entities purchasing goods and services from social enterprises employing persons with disabilities. In addition, it was envisaged that the Minister responsible for social security should be able to draw up a health care programme to support the social economy. Following the entry into force of the Act, it is planned to prepare such a programme, under which support for social economy will be financed by the KPO. The participation of social enterprises in the public procurement market will also be supported by easier access to social service contracts and the possibility of reservations for social enterprises so-called. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Further development of the social economy sector also requires non-financial support, which is why it is important to ensure that social economy actors are seen and involved in social policy activities, especially at local level. For this reason, the Act provides for extending the scope of the strategy for solving social problems to include issues relating to social economy, in particular in the context of the implementation of such important social services. Social economy entities will also be able to benefit from dedicated support services organised and provided at regional level by specialised social economy support centres. This will make it easier to maintain the sustainability of these actors and build their potential for development. Coordinated actions for the social economy require an appropriate division of responsibilities between public administrations. The Minister responsible for social security will be responsible for coordination at national level. At regional level, these tasks will be carried out by local governments of voivodships. At both levels, these institutions will be supported by the Committees for the Development of Social Economics in which they will sit, inter alia. representatives of this sector and this will ensure such a forum for continuous dialogue between public authorities and representatives of the sector. What is extremely important, the vast majority of the solutions proposed in the Act on Mechanisms have already been tested through the use of European Social Fund funding. Representatives of the social economy sector were involved in the process of preparing and consulting the bill at every stage. The Act will also make effective and effective use of funds from the financial perspective for the period 2021-2027 under the European Social Fund+, and will mobilise around PLN 200 million under the National Plan for Reconstruction and Immunity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u74	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Elżbieta Zielińska, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the government bill on social economy, print no. 2321. The proposed legislation is based on the state's policy of responsible development, in which social solidarity plays an important role and the need to activate and integrate socio-occupational people at risk of social exclusion, in particular the unemployed and the disabled. The directions for the development of the social economy have already been set out in a strategic document, i.e. a strategy for responsible development. The Act is integrated with the already implemented government programmeAccessibility+z. The draft law comprehensively regulates the area of social economy, in particular the functioning of social enterprises and support for the whole sector. Concepts such as social economics have been defined, and a broad catalogue of its actors has been presented, stressing that it is not closed because it contains entities with very different legal forms, both non-profit and non-profit, as well as those where an economic factor plays an important role. A lot of attention in the Act was given to social and professional reintegration, whose task is to help achieve and maintain independence in the labour market. Moreover, unlike social employment legislation, people with disabilities have also been included in the concept of reintegration. This draft law also introduces significant changes to existing law, including. The catalogue of entities that may join the cooperative consortium has been extended to include social economic operators such as labour cooperatives, associations of local self-government units, but also sports clubs which are companies which do not allocate profits to the division between shareholders, shareholders and employees, but to statutory purposes. In recent years, employment activity of people with disabilities has increased, as has unemployment among these people, which is a very positive phenomenon. However, it should be borne in mind that the activity of these people is slightly different from that of those who are fully functioning and are much more at risk of such phenomena as for example. epidemics. Hence, there is a strong need for specific support for these people to have a stable form of employment. Among the people at risk, which is worth highlighting, there are also carers of people with disabilities who, due to care, have difficult access to the labour market. The catalogue of people at risk of exclusion also includes adults leaving a foster family, family homes, care and education institutions, but also those who have mental problems are deprived of liberty and leave prison facilities, people after 60 years of age, as well as refugees or persons with subsidiary protection. This catalogue therefore goes beyond the current social cooperatives law, which will allow for more comprehensive assistance for excluded persons. The draft law provides a way of acquiring the status of a social enterprise, but also this, in some way, is to function, i.e. to carry out an integration function, indicating their solidarity organizational structure. Social enterprises will be able to benefit from various forms of support, including: European funds, notably the Solidarity Fund, the Labour Fund or PFRON funds. This project is undoubtedly needed and fills the existing legal gap. The successful effect of these legal changes will be not only the reintegration of excluded persons, but also the provision of social services in local communities, such as pre-school care, nursery care or care services. The Law and Justice Club welcomes the bill submitted and provides support for further proceedings in the Sejm committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u76	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Anna Wojciechowska will now speak, who will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u77	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club a draft act on social economy, print no. 2321. The Act regulates the organisation and functioning of social enterprises, principles and forms of support for social economic operators by public administrations. The actions that involve the project are very necessary, even necessary for the proper functioning of our society, especially people who are somehow isolated from public life. Everyone in our country should have the full right and opportunity to participate in the life of the local community and to play social roles in the workplace, if at all this work has - and above all it should have a job - the place of residence, residence, including social rehabilitation in the case of people with disabilities. It is the duty of the state to provide this to people who have not had happiness in their lives, who for various reasons and reasons are not healthy, fully fit, whether they are simply homeless, excluded from social life. The causes of social exclusion are often seen in the absence of work, addictions: alcoholism, drug addiction, poverty, also banditry, mental disorders, bad opinion among society - it is also very common - or communication difficulties. Unfortunately, most of the reasons for social exclusion have its roots in the family environment, very often. As I said, work is an essential part of every human being's functioning, and we should do everything we can to provide this work for those in need of help. The draft Social Economics Act assumes active social inclusion by creating - and here it is marked - high quality, stable jobs in social enterprises. This is not easy, and it will certainly be a very difficult undertaking. To date, such actions have only been implemented through European Union funding, but it is good that the problem has been noticed, perhaps thanks to these EU projects. Actions are very complex and certainly require many amendments, but we need to start somewhere. The bill needs further refinement, it is not perfect, you can see that it was prepared very quickly. E.g. there is no specific definition of social enterprise, no definition of risk of social exclusion. This will later, ladies and gentlemen, be revealed in the implementation of these projects. The same was true of innovation, where there was no definition of innovation, and it was very difficult to find or prove this innovation. None, for example. the introduction of a mechanism for granting the status of a social enterprise by registered courts, as is the case with the status of a public benefit organisation. The entry into force of the Act will constitute the implementation of a milestone on the prevention of social exclusion, included in the National Plan for Reconstruction. Amount: EUR 45 million, except that this respect was in 2019. Today it is probably much less significant than it was 3 years ago. All the more reason why the law should be prepared properly and more precisely. It should address individual problems in more detail and the criteria should be clear and transparent. It's a good thing we're already working on this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u78	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, You are extremely lucky, because after 13 years of work several governments, social economy finally goes to the Sejm in the form of a government bill on social economy. I think that, until now, when the foundations for the functioning of the non-governmental public benefit sector were being built, the 2003 Act, then the Social Cooperatives Act, the Social Employment Act, all such projects had trans-political support. The point is that we should build the social economy sector in such a spirit, too, over political divisions. Initially, the foundations of social economics were created on the basis of those laws that I mentioned. It was only in 2009 that the first draft law on social enterprise was created, and today we have this government project. For many years the social economy has tried to find itself in such a specific space between economic activity and supported economic activity or, as in the European Union, supported by the European Union. Poland has beautiful traditions of social economy. It is worth mentioning here Fr. Piotr Wawrzyniak, Edward Abramowski, Theodor Toeplitz, Franciszek Stefczyk. This is our glory. The glory, the tradition, but also our future. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Away with the commune.]] Please? [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Away with the commune.]] For Mr. Janusz, the social economy is far from the commune. Congratulations. Today, the social economy at the national level is 95 thousand. entities employing almost 150 000. employees and even more on civil law contracts. They play a particularly important role at local level. This social economy is a way of bottom-up initiative of citizens organizing themselves economically in favour of hiring people who are most difficult in the labour market, people with disabilities who need this support in life crises. Such glorious examples can be the Wrocław Social Cooperative or the Social Cooperative of the Opoka of Chechła, which was founded by Agnieszka Ścigaj. Social economy is also a local enterprise for residents who create new social services, services necessary for the inhabitants of this community. It could be, for example. services in the field of respite support or care services. They could be nurserys, kindergartens, senior clubs. The Catholic Association of Disabled Persons from Starachowice and Konińska Social Cooperative Spectrum can be praised examples. However, social economics is primarily a new formula in which workers participate in the management of the company. It's a formula for building labour democracy. If you have doubts about how this works, you are invited to visit the Warsaw Social Cooperative Margin. Therefore, we believe that the adoption of the Social Economics Act is an extremely important event. We will propose, with regard to the work in committee, firstly, the introduction into the catalogue of social economic operators of agricultural cooperatives, and secondly, as regards people at risk of homelessness, there are also issues that have already been referred to the National Committee for the Development of Social Economics by the national committee, to the Minister of the Family, concerning the fact that this refund of the contributions you have spoken about is not mandatory, but it is not compulsory... However, we would like this assistance to be mandatory in the case of reintegration programmes. Also with regard to the location of the voivodship - without going into political issues - it is an organ which is simultaneously a recording and supervisory body in a single formula, i.e. a voivodship, not a good solution. The voivodship government has been implementing this policy for 18 years, should be able to implement it right here. Further, there is an increase in the participation of regional social economy committees (the bell) in the National Committee for the Development of Social Economics. You spoke of this dialogue. This dialogue between the voivodship and the country could take place there through the participation of representatives of all regional committees in the national committee. It is also about increasing the competence of the committees to select their representatives for the monitoring committees. This is also in line with the expectations of a European policy on this matter. Of course, it is about ensuring that social economy centres, social economy support centres that carry out their services in general, will not be regarded as commercial companies, but as fulfilling these public tasks. We should also revise the rules on the functioning of social cooperatives. Here, above all, people, not capital, should be in the first place. High Seym! The Left Messenger Club is in favour of directing this law to work in committee and will support this solution. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: It is hardly surprising.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u80	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Urszula Nowogórska will now present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska. I want to warn the High House that there will be a 10-minute technical break before the questions are asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of my club, the Polish Coalition Club - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Marek Biernacki Conservatives in relation to the government draft law on social economy. As probably already in the Chamber, the aim of the proposed regulation is to actively involve people at risk of social exclusion, particularly the unemployed and the disabled, by creating adequate and stable jobs in social enterprises. The main objective of social economics is social and professional reintegration. It aims to achieve employment objectives and to support local development in social services, which are particularly linked to the difficulties arising from recent demographic problems. As regards the final part, the law in Article. 2 defines exactly the subject of social economics. It is intended to cover in particular social cooperatives, occupational therapy workshops, professional activities, cultural centres, social inclusion, labour cooperatives, including disabled and blind cooperatives, non-governmental organisations and other public benefit entities listed in Article. 3 (1) (a) 3 points 1, 2 and 4 of the benefit law. In section II of the proposed law, we have a definition of a social enterprise. The status of the social enterprise, according to the law that we are implementing at the moment and which we are discussing, will be implemented by the voivode. However, there are many questions here, which also arise during the consultation and consultation process. Namely, this is about the proper definition of social economic operators, which are a key element in the full coverage of non-formal citizens' activities. It is thus created e.g. the question whether entities which are also part of the social economy and which are cooperatives, e.g. of a staff nature and operate in rural areas - agricultural production cooperatives, will also be included in this project. There is also a question, which really arises from previous activities and social observation, in terms of the activity of local governments, local self-government units, namely voivodships. The question therefore arises as to whether this is a well-thought-out step for the voivodships to give powers to social enterprises, because for many years, they have been marshals' offices over the last years, specifically regional social policy centres, which are subject to marshals, in fact they have achieved these objectives and have great experience in this area. With all due respect to the voivodship state and voivodship officials, but these will be new tasks for them, new competences they will have to prepare for in some way, and they certainly have no experience at this stage of implementation of the bill because they have never dealt with these activities. Another question, in fact, a conclusion. The status of a social enterprise will be allocated through administrative decisions. And should not the actions and proposals so far and the definitions so far also be in force in this regard? The Act amends the law on public benefit activities, and the Law on corporate income tax, because here we are dealing with tax exemptions for social enterprises. The Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities will also be amended. There will also be a change in the thematic areas covered by the Social Employment Act, the Social Cooperatives Act, the Promotion of Employment and Labour Market Institutions and the Social Assistance Act. The Social Economics Act is of course necessary, and here, as far as these areas and topics are concerned, no one discusses. On the other hand, we must also know that work in this area has been carried out in principle since 2004. In fact, so far this social capital, this social economy has been significantly supported, but there have been no appropriate legal mechanisms for this. This was not the case even though, in principle, the project or the work on these projects, or the analysis of the different scopes, had been carried out since 2009. So far, mechanisms for supporting social economics have been defined, one can say, in internal law, i.e. in the National Programme for the Development of Social Economics by 2023 - it was in the form of a resolution of the Council of Ministers - and in guidelines of institutions managing European funds in Poland. Currently, the National Reconstruction Plan also contains solutions for the adoption by the government of a draft law until the end, unless I am mistaken, of the second quarter of 2022. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To sum up, we will certainly be looking at the fate of this project, we will certainly be analysing it and I think that we will also make our amendments and proposals in this area. Therefore, my club will at the moment support the referral of this project to further committee work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u82	Thank you very much for presenting the position of the club. Janusz Korwin-Mikke, who will present the position of the Confederation's circle, is now on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The adoption by the left-wing opposition of this project clearly shows that PiS is trying to return to the Polish People's Republic, which he is doing very well. I remember how I studied economics divided into two divisions: the economy of socialism and capitalism in the early days of the Polish People's Republic. On my socialism exam, I said that such an object does not exist and then I had temporary difficulties. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there is no animal like the social economy. Socialists have a habit of adding different adjectives to the noun, which completely change the meaning of words, e.g. Justice, social justice. It is known that social justice is either the same as justice. - what you're saying is social or something other than justice. And what's different than justice is called injustice. There is the teaching of the Church and the social teaching of the Church. There's economics and socialist economics. There's a chair and an electric chair. Democracy and socialist democracy, etc. The meaning of words changes. Here we have exactly the same phenomenon. The Committee, the National Committee for the Development of Social Economics, or something that does not exist, is immediately set up, and the taxpayer's money will teach a completely non-existent science that is completely contrary to what is meant by economics. Let me remind you, Art. 9 says you shut down profit, business, people can't profit from it. Well, when the socialists took power in the UK in the time Churchill lost power, he said, "The spring was removed from the watch and they are surprised that it doesn't work. Why should the company actually operate well and profit if the shareholders have nothing to gain from this profit? This is complete, total nonsense. We warned that introducing a minimum wage would result in a drastic rise in unemployment. So the unemployment was done with one hand, and now you're trying to fix it by doing it in an article. 21 that you will refinance your contributions. But the main reason for unemployment is the minimum wage, which makes people, as to say, socially not quite efficient, not profitable to hire. If this man could be hired for 1000 PLN or 1200 PLN, they would not be socially excluded, and now they are socially excluded. Even if they get a job, they will get it as socially excluded, which is the stigmatization of these people that they are not normal, they are socially excluded. And that's what this bill does. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If I hear you have to do everything you can to get these people to have a job, you have to cut the minimum wage. It's a basic thing, not a refund, which only takes care of part of the problem. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is another proof that we are going towards communism or worse socialism. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u84	Thank you for making the statement. And now Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u85	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Nothing about us without us - the practitioners and social economy experts could say today. It's a good thing that this bill is because, as my predecessor pointed out, we've been waiting for her for, like, nine years, if I count correctly. And that is actually all that can be said about this good bill, because it outlines some basics, while it is disappointing in content. And that's what everyone who is engaged in social economy in Poland says. This law looks like to a little too tight a bag or box trying to pack too wide a phenomenon by force, because social economy is a wide phenomenon in Poland, a very wide, already established, also spontaneous activity. Something went wrong in that box, something cut, but let's say that we have this bill. There's a lot of charges. This law narrows down, for example. definition of social economics from the National Programme for the Development of Social Economics: it only talks about a closed directory of entities, while the program says that it is not a closed catalogue that it is not a closed catalogue that is at all civic activity. But I understand that it had to be defined, and that's why there's such a limitation. The Act states that social services can be carried out for the benefit of the local community. Okay, but there are - and we're already seeing that - social economy initiatives that work in the region, in the national dimension, even in the international dimension. Why are we limiting this? E.g. job creation only for those who are at risk of exclusion, while social economy is at the heart of integration. In social cooperatives there are not only people at risk of exclusion, but also those who are expected to facilitate their entry into normal working conditions. Relevant subject-matter restrictions. This is also an allegation, i.e. the provision of social services within the meaning of the Social Services Centres Act. Firstly, these are the tasks of the municipality, which raises doubts. Secondly, this definition does not cover all services. The person at risk of social exclusion - there is a definition different from the Social Assistance Act, but also different from the Social Employment Act. It's missing, for example. women returning to the labour market or raising their parents on their own. Similar bureaucratic problems can be seen in a very large number of laws, e.g. on spatial planning, public procurement law or public budgets. These are laws in which you can see that regulations are created by officials who do not know the phenomenon. That is why Poland 2050 will, of course, support this law (The Bell) will try to improve it, but we would like to see that laws on such important phenomena are created with greater sensitivity and in consultation with practices and experts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: One more socialist.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u86	Thank you very much. We ask that you do not comment so loudly on the club speeches. And now Mrs Iwona Michalek will present the position of the Agreement Group.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present the position of the Jarosław Gowin Agreement circle on the project that is being conducted. The social economy bill proposed in the draft is of course very essential. It is necessary and very, very expected. The Polish State has been supporting social economy since 2004 but so far there has been no law regulating this area as well. The work on this law has actually been under way since 2009, with varying intensity. I know something about this because in 2020 I worked on it myself. And indeed, Minister, many people have worked on this project. That needs to be made clear here, too. The draft law regulates the definition of social economy and groups at risk of social exclusion. Social economy subjects include: social cooperatives, occupational therapy workshops, occupational activities, social inclusion centres and clubs, labour cooperatives and non-governmental organisations. The competences proposed in the project, the major competences which the project gives the voivodeship in the case of the broadcasting and taking away of the status of a social enterprise, and the broad control competences, are, unfortunately, highly questionable. The governor isn't prepared to do it right now. Until now, it has been done by the marshals. They have experience that needs to be taken into account. I don't understand why you want to take this to the marshals. That's what we need to work on. Since the Act is necessary for the further development of the social economy, the Agreement, despite these many ambiguities and vague provisions, will actively participate in further work on the content of the Act, so that it actually gives a new impetus to the development of the social economy sector, because I know that it is very, very much needed. People need help, they need help already, right now. It's a good thing this project came here. I'm glad. We'll work on it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u88	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Ryszard Galla, an independent Member, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I take the floor in the form of a statement because I have no opportunity, Mr. Marshal, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u90	Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u91	Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that non-members are excluded from the possibility of asking questions in part, but this is a limitation on our parliamentary powers. Please note this, Mr Marshal, at the Bureau meeting. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft Social Economics Act presented by the government, which has been born in the bosom for so long, is very important. Although Mr Korwin-Mikke has criticised this project very strongly, I believe that these objectives, which are set, are very important. After all, the threat of social exclusion is a very important concept in us. If, after all these years, we look into the environment, especially the local, rural, popegeerian environment yet, we still feel that there is a need for such professional activity. On the other hand, you can see clearly when you look at small local governments that the demand for all kinds of tasks, even those tasks that are assigned to local governments, is very important. Therefore, this project offers some opportunities. First of all, it is important to say that it regulates certain organisational issues concerning the creation of social enterprises. This is very important because it also increases the opportunities for all the activities that we have been preparing in this area for the last 20-30 years. And today, the drafting of such a law, you can say, is closing on this subject. It may still be regulated, I hope during the readings, but it will organize this work for us. The method of voivodeship's appointment. There you go, let's have that voivodeship log. Minister, I am a long-standing self-government officer who in the first and second term supervised the provincial labour offices. I would like to remind you that it is in the context of this reform of the local government that the voivodeship's tasks in this area have been passed on to local governments at all times. It seems to me that until today local governments of voivodships carry out these tasks very well. They are very well prepared to regulate these issues under this law and work with such social actors. It seems to me that in the work of the committee it is worth to lean on this so that it does not really approach the provisions of this law in a political but substantive manner. On this occasion, Minister, I would also like to ask you about issues concerning, I would say, relations between local, regional and entities that will form. On the one hand, we create social actors. I am to understand that it is an economic policy-based entity that will operate, and will therefore also be a participant, a tax payer, for example taxes on individuals, and also on the activities of this company. On the other hand, various types of reliefs will be applied, which are also mentioned in the Act. Has anyone been tempted to make a balance of accounts? What will be the result? Will it be neutral for local governments, whether their income will be reduced, or will it actually, according to some media, be a little hilly, or an increase in the share of local governments in taxes? I ask you to answer that question. I think this project is very good. He should be processed as soon as possible. I cannot say this on behalf of the club, but as a non-member, I will certainly vote in favour of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u92	Thank you very much, sir. I will report your request to the next session of the Sejm. As announced earlier, I am now announcing a 10 minute recess, after which we will return to our deliberations. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 21 hours 12 min 29]] I'm reopening the session. The committee responsible submitted a report on the government draft law on the Polish Tourist Organization and the law on gambling, print no.2363. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We continue to consider item 3 of the agenda. Before that, however, I would like to inform the High House that there are students from Ostrzeszów and Biskupice Zabaryczne who have come at the invitation of Katarzyna Sjoka. I ask that we welcome our guests with the Member who is at the gallery. [[Applause]] Let's get to the questions. Mr Sosnierz will be the first question to be asked by Mr Dobromir Sosnierz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, the very purpose of this project is highly questionable. If the aim of the project is to prevent social exclusion, it means that it is an anti-social law, because social exclusion is an important social mechanism that makes people motivated to be productive in society. If someone is not productive, e.g. avoids work, from useful activity for others, or is somehow toxic, that is isolated in society, that is, ostracism, currently according to the new left-wing so-called. social exclusion. If we create mechanisms that will make it more profitable to hire an excluded person, it will mean that we encourage people to employ less productive or more socially harmful people. Of course, not everyone is excluded from their own fault, it happens too, because the world is not perfect, but we create a mechanism that will generally reward in some way, one way or another, hiring less productive people, rewarding for being unproductive. It is therefore a de facto project about anti-social economy. Thank you. [[No, you've really outdone yourself.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u94	Thank you very much, sir. And now the question will be asked by Mr Leszek Dobrzyński. [[Speech outside the microphone]] Mr President, wait until the unexpected discussion between you and your fellow Members is over. Can we please silence this discussion? Because Mr Leszek Dobrzyński would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u95	I'd definitely like to.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u96	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I feel like listening to similar speeches, including others. a certain Member who is no longer in the Chamber, that even rescuers on a guarded beach would call a socialist invention, because, after all, everyone enters the water on his own responsibility and should be aware of the danger of dealing with this water. However, as I understand it, we, as a formation, represent a country that wants to extend a helping hand to those who need help. Here great thanks for the fact that in this act also the pupils who come out of foster care, family homes or foster homes were included - this is very important information. And one question - because this valuable initiative, which is social enterprises, certainly requires support - how the Minister of Social Policy and the Family intends to support social enterprises. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u98	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you so much for this bill. It is a law really expected by a huge number of citizens who are associated, who are grouped in very important social economics. These are, of course, social cooperatives, such as professional activities, occupational therapy workshops, social inclusion centres - in total, the number of social economy actors is around 100,000, including 85 thousand. NGOs, 1500 social cooperatives and 1200 reintegration units. We would like to ask whether, in view of the fact that such an important bill is being processed today, it was consulted and whether these solutions which are (the bell) proposed in it were consulted. What was the consultation with the social economy community that I mentioned and mentioned? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u100	Thank you very much, Member. The question will now be asked by Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I congratulate you on your nomination and support the Social Economics Act, but before we address the issue of innovation in care, I would like the Minister to analyse the functioning of social assistance homes. We have examples... I'm not gonna talk about the Jordans because this case is already known, but there's another case we know about from the report by your editor Michael Janczura from TOK FM. This is a matter of 20-year-old Adam, who was in the DPS Friendly house in Wrocław. There he jumped from the window, broke his leg - this case was not reported. He was incapacitated when he was 18, fled, moved 500 km away, now to DPS near Mława. But this shows that it is necessary to look at the issues of the disabled, whether they should be in the DPS at all, whether there is judicial control (the Bell) on this process, and in particular whether alternative forms of, for example, sheltered housing can be created in which such persons could function, not necessarily being locked up in social assistance homes. I'd like you to take a look at this case and this report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u102	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Rafał Adamczyk will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law affects local government units which, according to the law, develop a diagnosis of the social situation, including the potential of social economy actors in the implementation of social services, and define public tasks and social services contracted in new modes. Minister, is the government planning any additional measures that will support local governments in carrying out these tasks? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u104	There has been a change - instead of Mrs Monica Falej, who is not in the Chamber, Mr Tomaszewski will ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, In her speech, the Minister also said that social enterprises, social economy, social economy centres could be supported by funds from the National Plan for Reconstruction. The amount of PLN 200 million was mentioned. I would like to ask when there will be a set of specific calls for support for social economy actors, the identification of social economy support centres and what types of tasks will be allocated to these funds from KPOs. The employment support measures will come from the Labour Fund, as the Act says, and this is to be supported by both European and regional programmes. What will be the total financial envelope for support for social economy, including the functioning of social enterprises? Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u106	Thank you very much, sir. The floor will now be taken by Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Normal regulation of the social economy and its actors is essential. However, it is difficult to find anyone happy with the proposals. The solutions contained in the project do not bring any added value to the current solutions, but these were the environmental expectations and announcements of the government. The definition of social economy itself seems too narrow, and the wording used requires clarification, as it simply raises a number of interpretational doubts. The second important definition concerns social economic operators. Why was it not decided on a descriptive definition? The legal and institutional forms in which these entities may act shall be listed. Such a procedure raises doubts, all the more so as the catalogue of these forms is closed (the bell), which does not allow the inclusion of new legal forms which could arise in the future among social economic operators. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When I started reading this project signed by Prime Minister Morawiecki, I wondered whether the government had decided to prepare some guide in the form of a law, where and how to buy real estate, when selling it, and how to invest sales profits so as not to lose out as a result of crazy inflation. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister did not share this information. The government wants to create modern, friendly jobs for those excluded. In 2022, the Prime Minister allocated 72 thousand for the whole of Poland. zł. If, pending the entry into force of the legislation, inflation does not eat this amount, then perhaps one job will be arranged for this money. Mr. Prime Minister's valiantly working firm described this project on 700 pages of the manuscript. The paper and toner itself needed to print this project is more expensive than the value of government aid granted for this purpose this year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And next year, it's going to be 72,000. zł. I would like detailed information on the financial resources provided by the government for social economic operators in this and the following year. I'd like a written reply. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u110	Thank you. Ms Ewa Kozanecka will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u111	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The aim of the proposed law and regulation is to actively integrate people at risk of social exclusion, in particular the unemployed and the disabled, by creating jobs in social enterprises. Social economics is also intended to be a tool for social and professional inclusion and to support local development. Minister, I have a question for you. What is the result of the social enterprise's objectives set out in the Act? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u112	Thank you very much. We invite you to the speaker of Mr Richard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It seems that the objective of state policy towards those at risk of social exclusion should be to have as little as possible of them - i.e. not as many social economy enterprises as possible, but as few people as possible who are in these social economy enterprises. Now there is a question about the mechanisms for moving these people into an adjectiveless economy. Is this an option, and will the entrepreneur who takes a social economy worker benefit from it? What's it gonna gain? Is there a mechanism to promote this type of transfer? I am asking this question in the context of the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 where it is referred to individual reintegration plans to be created by enterprises in relation to the persons they employ. Of course, I see there the internal contradiction of this mechanism, namely that the company (the bell) provides for what to do, and at the same time it is to do this, and therefore there is such a danger that it will only plan what is as far as it can and not according to the needs of this man who should be built into the normal economy. I ask you to respond to this dilemma. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u114	Thank you very much. I would now like to invite you to ask Mr Jan Mosiński a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the context of this discussion on the draft act on social economy, I have a question for the Minister. How did the Minister of Family and Social Policy... Excuse me. Does the Act provide for the possibility of solutions that will help Ukrainian citizens who came to Poland in connection with aggression? This is very important given the number of refugees from Ukraine in the war and the aggression of Putin. In the proposed changes, in this Social Economy Act, do we also take into account the citizens of Ukraine? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u116	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Joanna Borowiak will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! One of the main objectives of the Social Economics Act is the inclusion in social activity of people who are at risk of social exclusion. These are among others. unemployed persons, persons with disabilities. The objectives will be pursued by creating high-quality stable jobs in social enterprises. In this way, the government is creating a tool that pursues employment objectives and supports broadly understood local development in local self-government units. The project enables social enterprises to emerge. I have a question for the Minister. How will a large group of people benefit from the support of social enterprises? Thank you very much for this bill, because he is very expected. I am not surprised by the voices of the total opposition that have already flown from this platform. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have just started working on the project, and there is virtually nothing else but a wave of completely pointless criticism. Either you support the project you talked about during the club speeches, or you criticize it. Why don't you think about it, please? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u118	Thank you very much, Member. Although I must say that there were no critical voices during the speech of the democratic opposition Members. [[Ex-boyfriends, ex-boyfriends.]] Except maybe one, but mostly they're all kind of referring to this project. [[Applause]] I would now like to see Mrs Beata Arrow.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u119	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Social economics is a very wide range of programmes for those excluded. It forms part of the activities of many actors and institutions providing social services in the field of professional and social reintegration, which are carried out both in the form of economic activities and in the form of public benefit activities. A number of them operate in local environments and provide services for people with disabilities. These are e.g. occupational therapy workshops, occupational activities or disability cooperatives, so the development of this sector is undeniably required to support measures and planned aid schemes by public authorities, which involves funding them. Minister, my question: From what sources does the government plan to finance the sentences provided for in the Act? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u120	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wojciechowska will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u121	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We really are very pleased that we are going to proceed and work on this project, because it is, as I said earlier, necessary. To my office, I am sure you, too, will certainly be visited by many people with various problems, in need of assistance, among others. they are also homeless, and disabled with carers, and unemployed, also educated, but disabled and unable to find work, and needing this work as air. The bill is needed, but it's not actually fully defined yet. We're gonna have to work on that. It is not known how this will work to the full, because on the basis of EU projects, there were previously a bit of awkward situations. Like what? can this bring benefits to entrepreneurs who employ people with disabilities? It's not just about tax relief, and the catalog is very general. Who will be responsible for the lack of results and what indicators will we measure? One more question, Mr. Marshal. What will happen to homeless people who, even if they find a job, will still not be able to keep their apartment, because these wages will certainly not be at national level, and still with the elderly, because they report to me, who can no longer take up work because of age and have no means to live? What about people like that? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u122	Thank you very much. Ms Iwona Maria Kozłowska will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u123	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the draft act of doubt, my opinion is that social economy is an activity for the benefit of the local community, which may at the same time exclude the activities of the social economy entity taken e.g. at regional, national or international level. Social economy according to the project is intended to provide social services within the meaning of the Social Services Centres Act, which may raise doubts for two reasons. One: these are services belonging to the tasks of the municipality, which may result in an entity limitation. The scope of these services mentioned in the Social Services Centres Act does not, in my opinion, cover all services which are provided by social economy entities to the benefit of citizens. Activities in the field of social economy are to be carried out in the form of economic activities, public benefit activities and other activities of a paid nature. While there is no doubt about economic activity, there are doubts as to whether (the bell) a paid and unpaid public service activity or only one of them, and if so, which one, Minister? Regardless of the designer's intentions, the definition of social economics proposed in the project seems too narrow and the fabrications used in the project need to be clarified as there are a number of interpretation doubts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u124	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Mirosław Nykiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have some specific questions. How will the law protect refugees? There is a legal possibility to support this group in reintegration enterprises, in those social enterprises, but the law also provides opportunities to stimulate these refugees to social activity. What kind of tools are they gonna be? As can be said, Minister, I am not, of course, referring to the economic effects of this activity, but to the social effects of these about 100,000. social economy actors? Why is there no definition of social enterprise in the draft law? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why didn't you decide to do that? And last but not least, the question: Why are you introducing this law so late in the context of the possibility of using funds from KPOs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u126	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Fabisiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The bill is created here and now, so it should relate to contemporary problems. I'm talking about the reintegration of people with disabilities, homeless people, at risk of exclusion. Without a doubt, the pandemic has created a new group of people at risk of exclusion. These are people with depression, mental disorders. It is a huge group and, I think, hidden, still undiagnosed, undisclosed. The bill does not provide a solution for these people. Very often, an on-line job is enough for such a person. I've heard about legal solutions projects, about the fact that online work will be (the bell) on request. You could be there, for example. write that it will be at the request of a person who has such problems and does not want to reveal them, because it is a kind of embarrassing problem. So I wanted to ask you whether you are aware of this, whether you have recognized this group of people at risk of exclusion, a huge number of people and unfortunately still growing, and whether there are legal solutions for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u128	Thank you very much. I invite you to ask the question of Mr Franciszek Sterczewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u129	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This project is a common Trojan horse. Underneath the nice-sounding title: the Social Economics Act, you want to centralize NGOs. The solutions proposed by you will make social actors dependent on government whims. Minister, why do you want the status of a social enterprise to be granted by the voivode? After all, for years regional social policy centres have been subject to the marshals of voivodships, which guarantees their independence. Voivodship government knows better than the government what Poles and Poles need. But it bothers you. You don't like independence, so at every step of the way, you try to centralize everything that's independent. You seek to make even the smallest decision in a remote ministry in the capital. It's a recipe for a stupid, archaic and inefficient country. But you're not interested in the welfare of the state. The only thing that matters is that the government feeds. [[That's not the bill.]] There is no consent for another part of Poland to be embezzled and politicized by the government of PiS. There's no permission to centralize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u130	Thank you very much. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Is Mr Sterczewski proud of this attitude towards Mr Sterczewski? [[I am, sir, proud to be an MEP, but not necessarily...]] Exactly. [[And sometimes your feedback is humiliating, too.]] Please, Mrs Teresa Wargocka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u131	I'm finally here. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That is politics - because this law is already becoming a political theme, not a substantive one in the area of social policy. Mr Sterczewski says that we are centralising the social economy. I believe Mrs Falej asked why local environments should decide on this issue. Find out what the status of the Civic Platform Club is on this case. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as social exclusion is concerned, this area is very wide. People with disabilities in our society are still vulnerable to social exclusion despite many government programmes and funding for this purpose. We know that work also has a therapeutic function. The increase in the number of social enterprises is indeed (the bell) a huge opportunity for a decent life, for a good future for disabled adults. I would therefore like to ask, Minister, how you assess this, what the concrete effects of introducing social enterprise status into the Polish legal order will be. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń from the Poland 2050 circle completes the list of persons enrolled in the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, this bill has been in consultation for a very long time. It is expected throughout the environment. Unfortunately, something else was in the previous version of the law, something else was consulted, and something else goes to Parliament. It is very bad that, despite the consultations that have been carried out, despite the very clear and clear statements of the social side, the government has put on its own and addressed to the Sejm a draft law which is not intended for the purposes to be pursued. That is why I want to ask you why the government decided that the status of social enterprise should be broadcast by the voivode. I ask this because we all know very well that there has been a consensus on this issue in recent years. The social economy support centres and the submissive (The Bell) marshals of regional social policy centres or people who know about it have developed this model, and the government wants to turn around with the Vistula stick and entrust these tasks to voivodeship officials who do not know at all. Why did the government make such a decision, which is a bad decision? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u134	Thank you very much. Now Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Minister Anita Czerwińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to thank you very much for your positions, your comments, your opinions. I am glad that we are actually all in agreement that this law is needed, it is necessary - well, except perhaps one exception of the Member who questioned the existence of the social economy at all. Social economy is a fact. It can be said that in Poland there is already a long tradition of social economy, which is very good evidence of local communities, which in an extremely creative way, engaged in these activities. And this law we do not introduce, you can say, some new organizations, because here too such questions were raised, but we simply standard what over the years, for several years, or maybe even more years has been developed by local communities. This bill is standardizing this situation as it is. And now I wanted to address the questions. Some things have been repeated, and I think you said most of the time. It's about the voivodships. So you can't agree with this - even if it's the last sentence that came out here - that something is taking away from local governments. I'm gonna start with this, and I'm gonna call it art. 54th Act, which says: Local government of the voivodship coordinates activities for the development of social economy in the voivodship, in particular... And here are all the activities listed, the powers of local governments that will continue to do so, there is no change. As far as voivodships are concerned, they have only been granted the authority to take an administrative decision on the status of a social enterprise, which is also regulated by this law. So, you can say, it's just an administrative action. On the other hand, this solution is based on mechanisms already in operation in other laws, according to which the voivode gives a specific status after verification of the premises. You can't say because there was such a charge here, very unfair to the voivods that they have no experience. They have experience because they grant status to centres of social inclusion, social inclusion clubs, sheltered workplaces or professional activities. It was also a question of whether European support for 2021-2027 in voivodships is planned for the implementation of the law. They will be used by both local authorities - so far nothing has changed in this matter - in terms of the functions of regional social economy coordinators and voivodships in relation to the granting of social enterprise status. Thus, the Act assigns administrative tasks to voivodships. Granting the status of a social enterprise means that the voivodships will verify the conditions set out in the Act for the applicants, but they will not create regional policy, because the task of supporting the social enterprise at regional level - cooperation with the OWES, the creation of regional programmes, etc. - remain within the competence of local authorities. There was also a question, on the occasion of the voivodeship issue, I will answer them, regarding the control, possibly the detection of irregularities. The voivodship will have the opportunity. So there may be additional control over the activities of such entities if they commit any malfunctioning. Mr Adamczyk asked for support. This support will be European. Mr Tomaszewski asked when the competition will be announced. The competition will be announced at the end of the year. As far as the measures are concerned, this will be PLN 200 million from the CPO and even PLN 1 billion from the ESF. Mr Wilczyński asked about the subsequent fate of these people, about the possibilities here. The whole philosophy of social economics is that it can be a stage, for some only temporary, some kind of training, implementation, avoiding exclusion, and then, if anyone has such opportunities, the market is of course open to him, in no way does the law prohibit it. This is generally the philosophy of social economics, which is the economy, as I say, as a social mechanism is already established, and the law only regulates it, gives the legal framework so that it can be coordinated efficiently. Mrs Borowiak asked how many jobs were created in social enterprises through the European Social Fund. There's about 15,000 of them. Mrs Kozłowska still asked whether this activity was paid or free of charge. We're not redefining anything in this bill. We're putting together what's already there - I'm stressing it once again. In general, the definition of social economics is about every action, and it's paid and it's free of charge. Mrs Nykiel asked about refugees, and not only Mrs Mosiński, too. Support for Ukrainian citizens will, of course, be provided as much as possible. It's going to be two-track. Firstly, refugees are included in the statutory catalogue of people at risk of social exclusion. This means that they can benefit from full employment support in social enterprises, as well as people with disabilities or unemployed persons. At the same time, Ukrainian citizens will be able to benefit from this support in social enterprises through the solutions contained in the law on assistance for Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine. On the basis of these provisions, they may register as unemployed or job-seeking persons at the county labour offices, and this in turn entitles them to full access to the support provided for by the social enterprise. There was also a question of abuse here. I have already mentioned that the voivode will have control mechanisms in this area. In addition, each company will be required to report on its activities annually to the competent local voivode. The scope of this report is specified in the draft law. There's one thing I've been meaning to say. Mrs Fabisiak asked about people with mental disorders. These people are also included in this law, while, as far as diagnosing this phenomenon is concerned, I think that this is, of course, a question more to the Ministry of Health. Another thing that's often repeated. In my opinion, these allegations are absolutely wrong, and I will explain why. You stated here that this law narrows down the definition of social economics. I think it's the opposite. You also claimed that there is no definition of social economy or social enterprise. There she is, ladies and gentlemen. Art. 4-7 is exactly what they're talking about. Social economy is an activity of social economy actors for the benefit of the local community in the field of social and professional reintegration, job creation for people at risk of exclusion and the provision of social services. It is carried out in the form of a public benefit activity, as I said: paid and unpaid, as well as in the form of business and other activities for payment. The statutory definition of social economy refers to issues relevant from the perspective of broader social policy. In addition to the reintegration of people at risk of social exclusion, it shows social services activity. This area is defined in the Social Services Act by the Social Services Centre in a very broad way and covers not only social assistance, family support and people with disabilities, but also other areas where active NGOs are active, e.g. on culture, health, environmental protection, sport - this is an example. The definition of social economy includes all non-governmental organisations, irrespective of their legal form and scope of activity, provided that they create jobs for those excluded or carry out social services. The social economy actors included other actors than non-governmental organisations, namely cooperatives, which rely on the personal work of members. These are labour cooperatives, including - because that was also the question - disabled and blind cooperatives and social cooperatives. In view of the nature of the activities carried out, entities such as cooperative banks, housing cooperatives and mutual societies were excluded from the social economy catalogue. And by the way, the catalogue is very wide, the law lists the categories exactly, please read it. Excuse me, I'm still looking at the questions you had.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u136	Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Anita Czerwińska: Mr. Marshal! I've got three minutes left. And last but not least, I wanted to answer the final question, summing up. This is what Mrs Wargock asked: What effects does the government expect as a result of the introduction of social enterprises into the Polish legal order, which is undoubtedly a key element of this project? It is in the social entrepreneurship formula that key features for the economy as a whole, such as caring for people at risk of exclusion, restoring their subjectivity, independence, the ability to participate more in society. The main benefits of this status can be divided into two groups. Firstly, improving the life situation of specific people at risk of exclusion, e.g. Disabled, unemployed. As experience has shown so far, resulting from the activities financed by the European Social Fund, these people can find employment in these companies, which corresponds to their capacity, their potential, as well as support for professional development and return to social activity, entry into this open labour market. Over the past few years, nearly 14 000 have been opened through the social entrepreneurship formula. jobs for people at risk of exclusion using precisely European funds. Caring for people in difficulty is the most visible and valuable contribution social enterprises make to social policy. However, it is not only who these actors work for that is important, it is also important how they work. Support for social entrepreneurship is the reconstruction of subjectivity, self-reliance, which respects the dignity of people who, for various reasons, remain outside the mainstream of social life. The central point of social economics, particularly clear in social enterprises, is the man whose needs, aspirations and potential have an absolute priority over profits, which has been questioned by one of the Members. Thanks to this law, social economy entities that obtain social enterprise status, in addition to support in the form of European funds, will have access to new support instruments, to funding from the Labour Fund or from the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. As a result, the potential for job creation for people at risk of social exclusion will be further developed. This is also the benefit of this law and its purpose. The second group of benefits resulting from the introduction of the category of social enterprise into the Polish legal order is perhaps more difficult to determine or quantify, but is not less important. The point is that these companies, as I have already mentioned, are very strongly rooted in local communities, i.e. that these actors are well-known, understood, and define the specific needs of the members of these communities and respond to these needs precisely through the provision of social services. Thanks to this law, local government units, which are obliged to carry out these services, gain a partner who is clearly involved in this type of activity and, at the same time, such separation of social enterprises is also an opportunity to better address their potential for the implementation of these services. This should be translated into greater availability of social services, but also into achieving them (the Bell) with the involvement of social enterprises geared towards achieving the social goals and needs of the other person... Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Anita Czerwińska: ...not to maximize profits. Thank you again very much for the discussion and support of this law. [[Applause]] Mrs Joanna Fabisiak will take the floor as corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u137	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! You only answered the first part of the question satisfyingly. The second question concerned the online work of people with the risks mentioned. I don't want to say it again. This is extremely important. These people are not going to social enterprises. Is the proposed programme considering the possibility of working online in different institutions? I'd appreciate it if you'd answer that question. [[Voice in the O.R.: In writing.]] ...because that would solve the problem I presented.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u138	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft act on social economy, contained in print No.2321, to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[In corrigendum mode to your...]] But the Member did not come forward from here, just as the Member has come forward. [[You didn't give me a chance.]] We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government draft law amending the Act - Teacher Charter and some other laws (Prints Nos 2351 and 2357). I ask Mr Andrzej Kryj to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u139	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government bill amending the Act - Teacher Charter and some other laws, print No. 2351. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on 17 June 2022 referred the above draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for first reading. The committee meeting on the first reading and examination of the project took place on 21 June 2022. They took part in the committee meeting, among others. State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science Dariusz Piontkowski, trade union representatives and Members, members of the committee. The project submitted by your Secretary of State, Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, is intended to simplify and re-bureaucratize the system of teacher promotion and guarantee higher remuneration for teachers starting work. In relation to the current system of promotion, there are allegations that it is overly bureaucratic. Currently, the teacher's professional promotion path includes 4 grades of promotion: an intern teacher, a contract teacher, an appointed teacher and a qualified teacher. The excessive number of professional promotions to which minimum basic wage rates are assigned adversely affects the level of remuneration of teachers starting school, which may discourage candidates from working in this profession. At the same time, the promotion to the degree of contract teacher after only 9 months of internship is considered premature because this period is too short for the teacher to acquire certain practical skills for the smooth and efficient pursuit of the profession of teacher. The acquisition of further degrees of professional promotion involves a number of formal requirements relating to traineeships, the preparation of career development plans for the period of traineeships and reports on their implementation, as well as the accession to proceedings completed by administrative decisions. Internship solutions, which provide for e.g. the need for a full-time traineeship in the event of a break in employment for more than 3 months may also unduly prolong the teacher's career promotion path, dissuading him from starting his internship once again in case of uncertainty as to the possibility of leaving school. It should also be considered unfavourable that the periods of work of the teacher between traineeships in order to gain another degree of professional promotion do not favour initiatives by the teacher aimed at improving skills. Therefore, according to the designer, it is necessary to amend the Act of 26 January 1982 - The Teacher's Charter, which consists in simplifying the system of professional promotion, including among others. to reduce the number of career advancements, to move away from formal traineeships, while placing greater emphasis on teachers acquiring practical skills during their work and ensuring equal teacher development throughout the entire career promotion path, and not just during their traineeships. Changes in career promotion will also improve the level of remuneration received by teachers. The reduction in the number of grades will increase the remuneration of teachers taking up school work, while the reduction in the period after which the teacher will be able to obtain the degree of teacher appointed will allow for an acceleration of the teacher's salary by 2 years. The aim of the proposed amendment is also to ensure that pupils and their parents can consult the teacher. The aim of this objective is to distinguish between other activities and activities arising from the statutory tasks of the school, carried out within the framework of the working time of teachers, the time of availability of the teacher in the school, where he will consult pupils, pupils and their parents as appropriate. In addition, the proposed law aims to extend the offer of Polish language teaching abroad by introducing the possibility of organizing children's branches for children aged between 3 and 6 years in Polish schools and schools and teams of schools at diplomatic representations, consular offices and military representations of the Republic of Poland. High Izbo! During the committee meeting, a discussion was held on the draft submitted, during which both Members and Trade Union representatives expressed their comments on the proposed solutions. These comments concerned both changes in the promotion scheme, the nature of the contracts to be concluded with teachers starting work, the evaluation of teachers' work, their remuneration and the introduction of one hour of consultation for pupils and parents. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Minister of State at the Ministry of Education and Science, referred to the comments submitted. The Commission voted against the motion to reject the proposal submitted by the Civic Coalition club by 19 votes to 16. Similarly, the request for a public hearing was rejected. 18 Members voted against the proposal and 17 Members against it. The Commission also rejected the other amendments, with the exception of those which were of a legislative nature and submitted by the Legislative Office in agreement with the Ministry of Education and Science. The Commission adopted the proposal by 18 votes in favour, with 15 votes against, for the adoption of the draft submitted. With this in mind, I have the honour to inform the High House that the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 21 June 2022, invites the High Sejm to adopt a draft law annexed to print No 2357. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u140	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Lidia Burzyńska will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club in relation to the government draft law amending the Act - the Teacher Charter and some other laws, which are contained in the Seym Papers Nos 2351 and 2357. Ladies and gentlemen! The work of a teacher is appreciated by the Government of Law and Justice. The government is making efforts to improve, improve the teacher's work, and I will mention just a few examples: Active array, broadband Internet, laboratories of the future, green workshops. These are the decisions and bows to the difficult work that teachers perform in the field of education of the Polish society. The main objective of the proposed changes is to simplify and re-bureaucratise the teacher promotion system. In the course of a lively social discussion, there were voices saying that the system of promotion of the profession so far is overly bureaucratic and complicated. I confirm it as a longtime director: that's what happened. Changes in career promotion are also intended to ensure an increase in the remuneration of teachers who have not yet been appointed, i.e. teachers in the first years of working in this profession. The draft law provides for two degrees of promotion of the professional teacher: the appointed teacher and the qualified teacher. The project therefore assumes that the degree of teacher appointed will be the first degree of promotion for which the teacher will apply. In the proposed law, due to the change in the number of degrees of teacher promotion since 1 September 2022, the average salary of teachers has been allocated to the various stages of professional development, which ensures an additional increase in the salary of teachers taking up this profession. And so for the initial teacher - 120% , for the appointed teacher - 144% , and for a qualified teacher 184% the basic amount to be determined for teachers annually in the Budget Act. So, ladies and gentlemen, according to the proposed changes, the teacher's salary will increase from 100% in the first year of school work. up to 120% the basic amount and the salary in the second, third and fourth years of work - because this period of preparation of the teacher for the profession and work in the status of the beginner will last - from 111% to 120% the underlying amount. The proposed law also includes other amendments to the Teacher's Charter which are typically more specific or adaptable to other amendments. Such an important example is the introduction of a regulation whereby the possibility to allocate over-sized hours is given regardless of the status and stage of the teacher's professional development, as well as the elimination of teaching internships is clarified. In addition, the proposed law aims to extend the offer of Polish language teaching - which is very important abroad - by introducing the possibility of organizing Polish children's branches for children aged 3-6 years. You recall that this is also not the first bow when it comes to teaching children abroad. You remember these famous SPK-i converted into a Polish school, so that Polishness sounds. The positive changes made before the project, particularly the numerous facilitations in the promotion of teachers, are a good response to the needs of teachers themselves. Taking into account the issues identified and the many positive solutions contained in the proposed law, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the project in question. And here, Mr. Marshal, I'm making amends. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u142	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u143	Thank you, Marshal. This law is such a typical example of PiS legislation carried out at a huge rate, without the consent of the educational community. None of the PiS Members in the Chamber dared to say that all trade unions and all protested against this project - even Solidarity. Neither the rapporteur nor the Member presenting his position on behalf of the PiS Club said this. This project is some kind of political schizophrenia. Minister Zalewska extended her time to the promotion, Minister Czarnek shortens it. Minister Zalewska deleted the card hours, Minister Czarnek restores them. [[That's not true.]] You treat the school like a baseball, throw it in different directions depending on the minister's will, without thinking about the effect it will have on the children. The pace of work is backwards, and you don't even care to consult. Secondly, you are afraid of an open, democratic and creative school. At your school, a teacher doesn't have the right to make decisions on his own. He has to keep wondering if what he's doing and saying will please the minister. You dream of teachers being enthusiastic about passing on the contents established in the Ministry to students, whether they are true or not, and those who oppose you would be most likely to be thrown out of work with the label of the enemy of the nation and children. Thirdly, you are increasing bureaucracy - you are eliminating the development plan, but instead you are introducing continuous evaluation and testing. Why? Because in these trials will be attended by the curator - your armed arm to oversee the ideology of the school - and you hope that only those who think correctly will pass through the screen of the curator. You're saying the bill is supposed to attract young teachers to school. I can already see those crowds who want to come to school and be apprentice teachers for four or six years without a permanent employment contract. I can already see young people lining up for continuous evaluation, demonstration lessons, examination and preparation of tons of necessary papers. Where's the education? Where's working with the kids? Where do you show the children of the world, develop their talents, take care of their psyche? For 4-6 years the teacher will not have time for this simply because of your PRL ideas. Yeah, you're introducing the PRL+ schools, because these ideas that are in this bill were functioning in the times of the PRL. What about wages? You freeze the wages of teachers appointed and certified, and raises for interns and contracts are only propaganda to escape charges that their salary is equal to minimum salary. The truth related to Minister Czarnek's concern for the salaries of teachers is shown in the NIK report for 2021. The salaries of staff of the Ministry of Education increased by 11.1% in 2021. - 609 zlotys on the job. How much did teachers' salaries increase during this period? About 0%. 0%. That's how the Minister cares about teachers' salaries. Here you go, you can see this. Here, on this board you can see the hypocrisy of the ministry, the hypocrisy of the PiS who cares for his, the new elites, but these elites do not include teachers, only experts selected manually by Minister Czarnek. We're making three amendments. The first amendment concerns the increase in salaries of qualified, appointed and beginners' teachers. The second - the deletion of black hours, and the third concerns an increase in the allowance for a young teacher - from 1,000. PLN up to 3000. zł. And I would also like to remind you that there is a Civil Coalition project in the Seym freezer to increase the remuneration of the budget area by 20%. Unfreeze this project, give people money, let teachers live decently, work decently and take care of (the bell) of our children's future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u144	Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u145	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Justification of the draft law on amending the Act - The Teacher's Charter announces simplifying and deburerocratising the system of professional promotion of teachers and guaranteeing teachers a higher salary. These are the basic problems of Polish education: unnecessary bureaucracy and horribly low wages, horribly low wages. However, the provisions of this law make these declarations an empty, cynical propaganda grip. There will be no increase in teaching earnings, there will be no simplification of unnecessary paperwork. For this there will be progressive politicisation, ideology, murderism, as it used to be said, progressive wage miseries and poor teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, at yesterday's committee meeting, all the trade unions in the comments we received gave a negative opinion on this project. Trade unions and other consulted bodies have not been given an opinion at all on the draft implementing regulations accompanying the project and are essential. Therefore, the parliamentary club Left is requesting that this project be rejected in its entirety at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, Polish teachers are one of the best-educated, hardest-working and at the same time the lowest qualified professional groups in Poland. The teacher's fees are based on the following budget laws for the underlying amount assumed in them. This basic amount - and the same is true in this project - is not in any correlation with what is happening in the economy, with what is the average wage in the economy, is not in any correlation with the minimum wage, it is just such a thing. The Secretary of State of Piontkowski sitting here in the Chamber asked me yesterday, what is the assumed base amount for next year in connection with this project, answered evasively, because it is not up to him, there is no political will to raise the base amount, the base amount this year is the same as last year, there is no political will of PiS to invest in the base amount. Teachers, divided into several promotional groups, receive some percentage of the basic amount. This base amount, ladies and gentlemen, today represents approximately 55% average wage in the economy. The effect is that trainee teachers have until recently earned less than the minimum wage in Poland. This base amount, as I said, hasn't been changed by the government for a long time and nothing says it's going to be changed. Hence the Left amendment, which I am making today at second reading, to base the entire system of remuneration on average wages in the economy, specifically 75% the average remuneration announced, in subsequent budget laws, which will result in an adjustment of this basic amount based on the average salary each year. Assigned teachers and diplomat teachers who account for 80% teachers working in Poland are not to receive any, not even an increase, salary adjustments according to this project. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Left makes a correction or application at second reading so that teachers are appointed to receive 30% more of this basic amount and the diplomat 40% More. The assumption that there will be no correction of wages, in addition to the situation of galloping inflation, galloping prices, universal costs, results in a decrease in the real value of teachers' salaries. The project introduces a 20% increase for the new group - beginners' teachers, eliminating the degree of trainee teacher and contract teacher. We have a tragic situation in education staff, we have vacancies, we lack, slightly counting, several thousand teachers, tens of thousands of teachers in Poland. This project is a desperate attempt to attract young people who are graduating from college with a 20% raise. We need to read into these wretched records - and Members had one day to read this project (The Bell) - to see that it is really a trap, not a developmental opportunity. And now, ladies and gentlemen, a fundamental issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u146	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u147	Why is this project so designed... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u148	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much. Please, Mr Klimczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the opinion of the authors of the submission of the bill, it is theoretically about simplifying and rebureaucratising the system of professional promotion of teachers and guaranteeing teachers starting a higher education salary. In my opinion, this is too noisy a prediction of the changes that we are discussing today, because these changes are actually small. They neither simplify the professional promotion of teachers, nor do you see a special fight against bureaucracy, nor are there any increases expected by teachers. We all know exactly what changes and what teachers, parents, local governments, all those who are connected to the school expect. Why isn't the government doing this? There is a lack of courage or money, or an idea of what the Polish school of the future should look like? I'm pretty sure everything's a little missing. Unlike others, I will not criticize didaskali related to the evaluation of the teacher's work, I will not argue about 1 hour for consultations, because I believe that the functioning of the Polish school requires fundamental changes, and such minor changes as the government has proposed will not satisfy either students or parents. But the government did one thing - even more conflicted teachers, made them even bigger enemies towards each other, not to mention trade unions, because even until now solidarity had not left a dry thread on this project. There is no real incentive to engage in the difficult profession of teacher. When there was a misery with teachers' salaries, it still is. What does a parent expect from a school? First of all, an equal start for your children. A start that doesn't end in constant tutoring. Today the parent in the evening, in the afternoon turns into the chauffeur of his child and drives around the city, after you tell him from one tutor to another. Is there any government proposal in this bill to eradicate this plague that they do not know in other countries of the European Union? I don't see that kind of change. 'Cause I don't think this plague is gonna end with this one hour of consultation. Second thing. Today more and more parents choose private, social schools for their children. Why is this happening? They don't have much money, do they? No, it's not about money at all. Basically, it's not about money. Non-public, private schools often have a better offer than public schools, and parents send them there to care for the development of their children. And our public, underfunded, poor, fighting the prose of life of the school stays on the side. Third case. Children in younger classes often go to school for several hours, for 4 hours. Which parent can get fired from work at an hour. 12 bring the baby home? Someone's gonna say, "The lounge." But what's on offer for our children today? What's going on out there? The school must be like one team, one body on the line of the student - teacher - parent - local government. And pedagogical supervision, which... Well, his role changes completely at a time when Law and Justice rule. But for this it is necessary a large, thoughtful, consulted, wise reform of the Polish school, not some of the upshots that the government has offered us today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u151	Ladies and gentlemen! Education is one of the most important and sensitive, sensitive areas of our lives, because it is about shaping the minds and souls of our children. Unfortunately, it is in education in Poland that the commune still prevails. What we hear is discussing how the workers of the communist workplace, which is the current state education, should earn. This is a communist facility where all teachers earn at a certain stage the same. Everyone gets the same high or, in fact, the same low raises, whether the teacher is poor or outstanding or teachable. This, of course, makes teachers very good when it comes to making them perfect so that they can learn the best they can. This primarily motivates potential excellent teachers to work in education. People with potential often look for jobs in completely different areas. This is not only unfair, but also very harmful to our students, because the school is primarily for students and not for teachers. Besides, in this communist system, the state imposes on all our children no matter what their parents think, the same curriculum. And what's worse, because this is of course totalitarian practice, it imposes the same teaching methods. And after all, children are different, different methods work well on different children with different abilities, predispositions, with different sensitivity. This is seen in the example of private language education, where we have various language schools competing with each other in terms of the best teaching methods. And these different methods: Callana, some other fancy methods, they work well on different people. In the meantime, in education, we have one method of teaching imposed by the state acting on the prayer of communes. Of course, it's wasting our children's potential. That is why we propose not to rumble in this ossified system, but to change it. First step: introduce an educational voucher, i.e. divide the budget for education into the number of children, transfer this amount to each child to parents and let them choose schools that will compete for these vouchers, for this money, for children, using the best working methods, teaching methods, showing the best results. This is about graduates who are really doing well in the labour market later. They will compete through the best methods of managing money and acquiring teachers, etc., etc. So it's about getting normal again. This is where my predecessor said that parents often choose private education when they have money, even though they already paid for the state school in taxes. Why? Because private works better. Let's take a step towards normality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Increases for ministers, vice-ministers, increases for parliamentarians were quickly and velvety. It is a shame for our country that people holding political positions are earning less than the official staff - the Presidential Minister was thundering at the time. Since the next month, salaries have increased by 40-60%. Contracting teacher after recent changes, after last charity of 4% earns less than PLN 3200. This is one-quarter of the drafts of a private parliamentarian, which is less than our parliamentary diet. Such a teacher needs a higher education and nine months of internship. We don't need anything. We just need someone to pick us. Your proposal to revise the Teacher's Charter is supposed to carry increases. Yeah, 'cause that present at the end of the school year, when you unpack it, it disappoints you with the contents. Once again, the government divides teachers into those who deserve to be raised and those who don't deserve to be raised. I wonder what the key to understanding this situation is. Maybe you want to keep the young people, throwing something for them, and as for the elders, you've taken the assumption that they're still working for ideas, so financially you don't need to appreciate them. Besides, appointed and certified teachers leave the schools massly. You're not doing anything to prevent it. There is no overall concept of professional development of the teacher. You want to eliminate two levels of promotion. And that direction is absolutely correct. But what is the idea of further development of appointed teachers, for further development of qualified teachers? Poland 2050 in the latest programming document Education for the future stresses the decent working conditions and wages of teachers and teachers. We have always called for their wages to be minimum national averages. And we don't take it as a cost. This is an investment. This is an investment in a better future, in better young tomorrow, in better Poland. We will support the amendments of the Civic Coalition, we will support the proposals to reject this fatal law at first reading. I hope someday we'll have school for the students, for the teachers, for everyone but the politicians.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u154	Thank you very much. We're going to ask questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Zieliński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed amendments to the Teacher's Charter introduce a fundamental modification, among others. in the professional promotion system. The re-bureaucratisation of this process will be welcomed by teachers and directors. Departure from drawing up professional development plans, reporting on their implementation or evaluation of professional achievements for the period of traineeship is a good direction for change. At the same time, it welcomes the fact that, in the new formula of promotion, the Ministry stresses the development of practical skills of teachers. The introduction of the obligation to conduct open classes is a return to assessing the essence of the teacher's profession as a lesson. The elimination of two grades of promotion also means a raise for the beginner's teacher. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: What group of teachers will be subject to a raise and how much money has been secured for this purpose? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u156	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left Club. You don't have an MP either. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u157	Imagine a system in which gastronomy has such an idea that the state collects taxes on people, then transfers a lot of money to the network of public restaurants and that only such a way of eating exists in Poland. Would the appointed chefs in these restaurants, of course, try to make the best pork chops? No, they wouldn't care about those pork chops because they already got the money from the state, and we still have to go to those restaurants and eat there, because we have no way to go anywhere else. Unless someone has a lot of money. Then he can still walk, even though he paid a tax on these restaurants, to extra private restaurants. Can't you see that the current education system is exactly what it could have been, once it was in gastronomy? Can't you see how bad it is for our children? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u158	Thank you. Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! How come you're supposed to listen to people and all the teachers' and trade unions are completely against your project? How come you guys promised that school would be better, not just that the kids are overtired, over-educated, they're still short of teachers? I have a serious question to the Minister: Do you think that your law will solve the biggest problem concerning Polish teachers and teachers, the Polish school, as regards the fact that there are no teachers in Poland who would teach, especially science? Especially in smaller towns, this is a growing problem. Do you really think that by law, contrary to the environment, contrary to teachers and teachers, you will achieve the desired result, i.e. improving the status of a teacher's profession, that you will increase the number of teachers? Everyone tells you not to go this way. Minister, don't go that way. You're supposed to be for the people, not just for the Black. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u160	Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The teacher is an employee, and the Teacher's Card is a law that protects the teacher as an employee. In the meantime, the government amendment is a clearly anti-worker project: introducing littering of young teachers' work, flattening wages in a way that discourages any professional development and introducing additional working hours by the back door, so-called. Black hours, which will additionally impose responsibilities on teachers. The biggest human resource crisis in the world has been going on for years. Minister, you can't stop trashing the working conditions of the teachers of this crisis. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u162	Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the so-called. card hours. When PiS was going to power, he was going to liquidate those hours, which was realized, and now you want to introduce these hours again. Then the PiS politicians said those hours were unconstitutional. Now you're coming back to this idea. This is an attempt to backstage increase the compulsory salary of teachers' classes without guaranteeing them the right to adequate remuneration for this, say the unionists, and you continue yours. I ignore the argument that this mandatory hour of consultation for students is such a bit of a public hold, because also teachers, and teachers in principle never refuse to help students, often even after hours of their work. Explain to me what is the mode, what is the path of your reasoning in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u164	Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This unwanted act has really one purpose - to escape the charge that the youngest teachers, those who are just coming to school, have the lowest income in the country. Over 80% of teachers are appointed and certified teachers. For them, this bill means stopping their earnings. In fact, it means that there will be even less motivation to ever raise their wages, because at least right now you will escape from the fact that the teacher starting his job has a salary below the lowest salary. This bill means that for these young teachers there is no prospect of development, that they will earn decently. This law means that you have been able to reconcile all trade unions, because solidarity and the CIS are strongly opposed to this law. And this bill shows your hypocrisy, your hypocrisy, because you're changing what you used to cancel, e.g. You bring back Czarnkowka's hour (the bell) and once you canceled the card hours. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u166	Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The explanatory memorandum of the law states that this draft law should simplify the promotion of teachers. Polish teachers deserve first of all respect and decent pay. Minister! Could you, in short words, best answer me in writing to the question with which this draft law was consulted, with particular emphasis on trade unions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u168	Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is further evidence that the government takes neither teachers nor their trade unions seriously. Its provisions will result in higher salaries for school starters, but they will also share the teaching environment. There will be a drastic flattening of the wage net, which will adversely affect the situation of teachers with a lot of experience who simply lose motivation for development or even remain in the profession. Why are you sharing people again? If you want teachers to make more money, why don't you just give everyone a raise without exception? What about local governments? Will they receive funding for these increases or will you shift costs to local government units again? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u170	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to congratulate you very warmly. I would like to congratulate this excellent law by which the state has perfectly united three trade unions, which sometimes have separate interests. You guys could do it with that bill. None of these trade unions left a dry thread on this project. Why? Because the previous law on promotion came from the year 2000 and was consulted with trade unions, teachers, etc. almost throughout the year. On the other hand, you do not need any consultation, because you are reworking a school for politicians, not a school that is meant for teachers and students. And besides, you're turning schools into parish schools, except they're not headed by a priest, they're a parole officer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u172	Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What about inflation and teachers' wages? As you can see on this board, the staff of the Ministry of Education overcame inflation last year. Teachers, zero. How do you intend to compensate qualified and appointed teachers who have received only 4.4% this year Raising, catching up on inflation? What have you done with the 1400 million zlotys from the budget reserve that was supposed to be spent on teachers' salaries and disappeared somehow, because these 4.4% only 1,600 million zlotys were consumed. Maybe it's the money you're giving to your experts and your people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because what we know is that you take care of your own. Mr. Marshal! This is the ratio of teachers' wages to... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...remuneration at the Ministry of Education. [[Applause]] [[Voice out of the room: Disabling the microphone didn't work.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u174	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This bill doesn't solve anything, and the reality is that since May 1st, you have introduced an uplift for teachers of an insulting amount of 4.4%. Last year, in 2021, there was no increase, this year - 4,4 . The Central Statistical Office calculated in 2021 for pensioners and pensioners 4,24 and this year - 7, 11, 24. Teachers were offered and implemented 4.4, i.e. really 7% teachers' wages have decreased in relation to what GUS has calculated and what has also been established in the Tripartite Commission in terms of increases in pension benefits. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's next year's salary for teachers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u176	Mrs Jagna Marczulaitis-Walczak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u177	High Izbo! Minister Czarnek's proposal to raise wages, which is so noisy in the media, concerns really only 20% of teachers. It's about remuneration for teachers entering the profession. What about experienced teachers? Teachers working in the profession for many years received 4.4% in May this year increases in record inflation, which is currently 14%. For an intern it is 120 PLN, for a diplomat it is about 170 PLN raise. The real 20% increase proposed by the opposition in the Senate was rejected in the Sejm by the votes of the PiS. So I ask: Do you really care about teachers? Don't you see that teachers are leaving the profession and looking for a better paid job? Your proposals are not increases, they are reductions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u178	Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish schools currently lack more than 12 thousand. teachers and teachers. These older, more experienced people give up their work. Young people who study at pedagogical schools no longer think about working in the profession and are less and less connected with Polish schools. How are you going to convince these young people to teach after all? Instead of stabilizing, you offer temporary solutions: 2-year contracts, slightly higher wages than minimum wages. We must make the Polish school a good place to work and a good place to learn, and this without stabilization, good wages and proper career promotion paths will simply not be done. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u180	Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The entire education is heavily underfunded. How much have you increased your subsidies to local governments since 2016? How much did you raise your salary? After seven years, you've offered a 4.4-percent value for inflation of 14%. this year and 8.6%. last year. Now you're offering your teachers another humiliation. We're working on an important change. In the process of evaluating the teacher's work, you include curators, which means that we will be dealing with a political evaluation, with a tool used to eliminate from the system of insubordinate teachers. The promotions will be handed out to their own. This project could be called a muzzle bill. Plus, he's force-forced. All relationships criticize him. Where's the consult? There are many questions: about black hours, about forcing teachers to increase their working time, about show lessons. I remember it from school, from the time of the Polish People's Republic. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I remember when the teacher didn't teach us, he was just practicing with us for a show lesson. The Polish school has to go through a series of... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Polish school is not needed additional...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u182	Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club. Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u183	Polish school does not need additional medals. When you start... [[Applause]] [[Bravo, beautiful.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u184	Member, do you hear what I'm saying? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! If we ask what it is today in Europe and in the world that determines the development of a country, a society, it is in addition to money - some have it and others do not - it is education, mind, modernity, what is in the mind. The country that invests in science, education, wins. It's just a matter of time. If we do not educate Polish society at the highest level - not average, not just what, but the highest - we will lose in this competition. They will come, they will buy our employees, they will use Poles in different places for their needs. Investment in education is the most important thing. Without teachers, you can't do it. They can't get charity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They have to make good money to educate Polish children well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u186	Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There's a protest in front of the Sejm by nurses and nurses. We remember similar protests from teachers. Today, the PiS state behaves the same way they behaved at the time. They're sneaking through the underground corridors so they don't meet the protesters. [[That's not true. I've been to these ladies.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But one day you will not avoid such a direct encounter. What have you done to restore the dignity of this profession? Don't you really see that teachers don't want to work in their profession, that they're quitting their profession, that we have 13,000. Vacations? Aren't you really worried about who will be teaching your children and grandchildren in the future? That, of course, is a rhetorical question. You don't really care. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u188	Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u189	Gentlemen! Mr. Messengers! Mr. Marshal! Everyone asks why this system is designed so that it discourages you from working in the profession. It's taken at most for a year, two years. Why does the system not prevent the most experienced teachers from leaving this profession? Why is this project so designed? Is it because PiS simply doesn't have the political will to invest in education to invest in teachers' wages? Why doesn't the PiS have that kind of will? Because the PiS simply doesn't want to keep solid creative teachers in education. I'm not talking about geniuses anymore. Why doesn't the PiS want that? Because creative, solid teachers teach you to think, teach you to think critically, teach you to analyze what you hear. Why doesn't the PiS want students who have such skills? Maybe a small-minded nation (the bell) taught to listen to power... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[What else are you gonna figure out?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u190	Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u191	Ladies and gentlemen! What we heard yesterday is a hoax and a hoax. You're eliminating the position of a contract teacher and an intern, giving a small group a raise, and you're forgetting a whole bunch of teachers who want to quit today. In Poland - I quote - directors are looking for teachers for 12,8 thousand. jobs, from one school leaving the teacher of the year, with him six others, the big Warsaw elementary school loses 15% staff. That's what's waiting for every school because you're cheating teachers. Black is worse than charity when you led to great inflation, almost 14% , and you give 4.4% raises. The Minister asked me yesterday where to get the money. Several dozen billion zlotys flow from inflation, it is financed by Poles precisely from inflation and expensive. Give the teachers, or there will be no one to teach our children. In fact, look, no one's even defending you. Three Members of the Law and Justice defend this bill. It's a shame, just a shame, my fellow Member. [[Nobody wants to listen to you.]] Even in your own ranks, you can't... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u192	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, you are not in the marketplace, you are in the Sejm. Take it easy, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u193	Minister! Let me ask you a very personal question: Are you okay? [[There you go, lovely. I think we're all gonna leave.]] I'm asking because body language betrays everything. Face hidden in your hands, looking at the ceiling. A body language that says I'm not interested in what you're saying here. It should be, Minister. Let me ask you another personal question: Will you pay at least one salary to say yes: I am convinced of this law, there will be less than 13,000 in a year's time. Vacations at a Polish school? Will you bet one salary? Tell me, because then it'll be credible. You'll bet one salary on what you're proposing. The teacher of the year is leaving. That should make it clear. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how much money it takes to dream of a vacation abroad, a vacation abroad? Over 5,000. zł. A long Polish teacher, the one who is to be employed in the education system, will not dream about vacation abroad, because (The bell) is the most expensive on the holiday there. [[Applause]] [[You should've raised your salary, it wouldn't have been such a thing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u194	Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS politicians live as usual in an alternate reality. You're saying this bill was expected. I say, "Who was she expected by?" After all, even trade unions, all trade unions, Members, have passed this law. They don't like this bill. There are so many negative words in their opinions that they simply cannot defend it. And you can see you're not defending it because you're ashamed. There are three people from the piss room. [[We can't listen to you.]] Let me tell you this: I went to meetings in Wielkopolska on Monday and every teacher I talked to, and I talked to unionists, with private teachers, and he said that this bill was useless. You want to do one thing: you want to give political promotions. That's why you need a parole officer on the committee, so that a teacher who's gonna be rude, who's gonna protest against your actions (the bell) doesn't get that promotion. And that's the truth. [[Applause]] [[There were checks at the parole board on your promotion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u196	Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u197	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The truth is that you are trying to make a slave teacher, and it is a slave both in terms of freedom of opinion and in terms of economics, because for the wages you offer teachers, it is simply impossible to live properly, especially in the situation where your Glapiński hawk led to inflation, to expensive. You really think 4.4% Will the increase compensate for 14% inflation? Then count it. In addition, obstruction of the process of promotion. Firstly, you are increasing the bureaucracy of this process, and secondly, you are introducing the evaluation criteria that Minister Zalewska wanted to introduce earlier. These evaluation criteria then they were very widely protested by the entire teaching community. Moreover, these assessments will be carried out by curators and e.g. In Małopolska we have curator Nowak. So? Such curator Nowak, who is responsible for 50% disciplinary proceedings throughout Poland, which for any other sentence than her sacred sentence punishes teachers, will promote and judge these teachers? Scandal! You put a muzzle on your teachers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is outrageous. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u198	Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u199	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! You've been treating your teachers and teachers like second-class citizens since the beginning of your reign. This time you want to make the impossible possible: you want to make their working conditions even worse. According to the provisions of the Act, a beginner teacher and a beginner teacher are to work under a fixed-term contract for 2 years. So far it's been a year. What's to motivate them to do this job? How about a higher salary? Unfortunately not, because for the first years they will work for a minimum wage, and in addition they will be judged by politicized and ideological curators who will decide about their promotions or lack of promotions. This is the nightmare of Polish education under the PiS rule. Thousands of teachers and teachers and, above all, students and students will remember this. Without decent working conditions at school there will be no modern education, and without modern education there will be no modern state. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You're gonna introduce sexual education, it's gonna be modern.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u200	Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u201	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The teaching profession is a mission and service. We expect teachers to engage, work with passion, professionalism. What are we offering? A minimum national remuneration. We offer dilemmas, what to do: Do what you love or work for a decent salary outside education? We can shout here on many issues, differ, but will there really be one Member in this Chamber who is able to say that the teacher is getting a decent salary today? In the care of teachers, we leave our little ones in kindergarten after eight hours. It is from teachers that we expect them not only to teach, but also to raise our children, the next generations of Poles. So I appeal for respect and fair wages. Today we have 13,000. Vacations. How much next year will depend on the decision this House will make today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u202	Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Almost nobody wants to work at the Polish school, we have almost 13 thousand in Poland. Vacations. And what do you propose, Mr. and Mrs. PiS? Increases 4.4% , i.e. about 130 PLN gross for the teacher, of course at the same time gives Mr Glapiński a raise in the form of 600 thousand. zł. What do you suggest next? To make such a teacher's promotion conditional on a probation officer like that Barbara Nowak. What do you suggest? Freeze teachers' salaries from 2 to 6 years. What do you suggest next? For the first few years, you shouldn't call a teacher who's been educated, a teacher, just a teacher who's almost a teacher, but you shouldn't call him a teacher at all. You even deprive him of the name of the teacher. Ladies and gentlemen, how do you imagine for a few years of Polish school? Who's gonna teach our kids? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u204	Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister of Education and Science. Minister, do you even know what's going on in Polish schools? Are you talking to the teachers, or are you talking to the principals, or are you talking to the local governments that run the schools? Do you know what the biggest problem these people have right now? No teachers. In my Lublin there is a dramatic lack of teachers in mathematics, physics, chemistry, professional subjects. But this is a nationwide problem, currently 13 thousand are missing in Poland. teachers. And what do you suggest? You are proposing a bill that overturns the teacher promotion system, which makes the time of hiring teachers for fixed-term contracts longer, which introduces unclear evaluation criteria for teachers and eliminates two stages of teacher promotion in the school system. The school requires changes, but changes such as are agreed with teachers, with directors, with local governments, with trade unions. Changes that repair (the bell) rather than those that destroy. You still have time to get out of those bad changes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u206	Ms Urszula Augustyn, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As my previous speaker said, the school needs a change. It's just that these changes aren't gonna make the PiS. Because what can the PiS do? No PiS has such a special logic - first it flips something, then it gets on its feet and thinks everything is okay. First of all, you think that a teacher's promotion needs to be extended - Minister Zalewska did so - and now you think it needs to be shortened and Minister Czarnek does it. And it's okay, and it's done. Unfortunately, that can't be done. What are you doing about it? You connect the ministry, e.g. culture and sport, and then you share them, and it's done. You guys kicked out middle school, you think school's a better school now. No, I'm afraid not. What are you doing with the raises? Because there are no new teachers at school, you give raises to those who come because you think they're gonna get caught up in this. What about experienced teachers? You're putting probation officers on their heads. Małopolska curator, already mentioned by my previous speaker, master in how teachers should be persecuted (the bell), can do so so that anyone... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u208	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! School doesn't like experiments. I have the impression that the state has been experimenting on Polish schools since the beginning of its reign. Trade unions are against this law, and it is the trade unions that you always support. Another thing. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a problem with teachers running away from their profession. Young people don't come to the teaching profession. We'll have drama in a few years. What does school associate with today? With the imposition, with stubbornness and bureaucracy, and it should be associated with something beautiful, with the development of the young man's personality, the development of talents, preparation for life in a modern, difficult world, sensibility, but also care for children who do not have this care at home. You don't do that. And one last thing, ladies and gentlemen. If you want to fix it, start talking to your teachers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you don't talk, nothing's gonna work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u210	Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u211	High Izbo! Remember, ladies and gentlemen, exactly 3 years ago from this place, a certain Mrs Anna Zalewska, then Minister of Education, assured us all that she was going to strengthen the prestige of the teaching profession? What did she say then? She said you should extend your teacher's career promotion by five years. By the way, she obviously removed social allowances and rights. Today also Minister, but this time Minister Czarnek, says that he also wants to fight for the prestige of the profession of teacher. And what does he do? It eliminates two grades of the teacher's professional promotion by creating a quasi-teacher position. You're proposing some preparation for the teaching profession. I understand that you can prepare for the profession, but a locksmith, a baker, a plumber - of course with full respect for these professions. A teacher's profession requires a heart, a mission and good preparation, but also, of course, adequate finances. And with regard to finance, where are we talking about education subsidies? There is no local government in Poland, Mr. Minister, who would not pay a huge amount of money - at the expense of investment, at the expense of other, very necessary things - for the education of our Polish children. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[It's always been like this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u212	Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Listening to this debate, you have the impression that the changes will be, but that they will not bring about the expected results. If teachers leave, as you know, if there are so little of them, which you know too, then you know that 30 zlotys will not stop or encourage anyone. So what other ways does the Ministry think to change this situation? I have no doubt that he thinks because he doesn't want to leave his education in such a deplorable state, and the foundation, one of the three pillars is the teacher. Therefore, I ask you to answer what other forms are. These forms have been known in the past. In the neighborhood where I live, there's been a kindergarten in the physical education academy for years. For who? For the employees' kids to make it easier for them to work. There are factory apartments there - not at the moment. So the (Bingle) spectrum of possibilities is one way or another. I'd like the answer you're proposing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u214	Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law we're discussing is another law on education, which, instead of repairing the education system, destroys it, undermines it, and really doesn't do any good. Instead of supporting teachers with decent raises and not some, I would say, insulting increases for them, not only disturbing the environment, but, above all, acting to the detriment of young people. I greet the students of the schools who will be affected by this bill we are talking about here. The point is that well-paid teachers will teach our young people better, and our young people will thus be better educated and will have a better chance of developing and finding themselves in the modern world. What are you gonna do, Minister, to stop... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u216	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. [[Don't interrupt halfway through the sentence, Marshal.]] I'm interrupting because it's...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u217	What are you gonna do to get... teachers to work? That's the way it is in this Seym that...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u218	Member, please get off the stand right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u219	...publishers who say what... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u220	Do you understand what I'm saying to you? Member, you are embarrassing this room. The young people are watching and seeing all the stupid things you're saying here. You're welcome, sir. [[You should be ashamed of yourself, Marshal. And I know how this is going on: not as you are.]] Sit down, please. It's great that you know. [[Discreditment, such a marshal is a shame.]] I am very pleased that young people are listening to what the Left has to say on matters of substance. [[Yeah, he listens to you, too.]] It's a brawl, nothing more, no arguments. [[And you have arguments.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is very good that young people are listening, because we have just heard from a Member from the Law and Justice that modern education is only associated with sexual education, which is absolute nonsense, some phobia. [[The left is familiar.]] Madam President, modern education is creativity, cooperation in the group, universality of competences. This is a modern education that teaches young people that way. PiS has been locked in its phobias and has been destroying Polish school for 6 years. First of all, Zalewska's deformity, which destroyed the chance of young people for a good education...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u222	Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u223	...and today the PiS is holding young people's legs so they can't get out of this middle school trap. But at school there were still teachers of passion, who, despite the logs being thrown at their feet, tried to educate our children. There's less and less, and there's about 14,000 missing today. teachers. What is the purpose of this bill? Remove these good teachers from school by offering them embarrassing working conditions, because what's in the bill is embarrassing. [[I think you're talking nonsense.]] Minister, whose command is this bill, in which language it was written, because it certainly wasn't... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Remove good teachers - tap your head.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u224	Mr Dariusz Piontkowski will now speak at the Ministry of Education and Science. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to this discussion, it would indeed be possible to grab your head, because I had the impression that the state had actually read fragments of the media message, which is supposed to allow you to gain some support, and you are not discussing the proposed legal solutions at all. There were these kinds of statements: you want to remove teachers from schools. Did any of you see any record in this bill that would talk about it? [[Yeah, 4% raise.]] One of you was talking about an alternate reality. Listening to you, I have the impression that you are still stuck in the matrix, you have in front of your eyes only and only: we want power, we want power, and every measure that leads to this is good, even if we lie day and night, it is good. [[You're the one who's disconnected from reality.]] The same is true of the discussion on this draft law. Almost none of you really referred to what is written in the bill. The state only talked about how you ideologically approach school and education, you didn't talk about what's in the bill at all. And back to the story, facts, facts. You were talking about an educational grant, so let's remind you of the numbers. At a time when PO and PSL were losing power, the educational subsidy amounted to less than PLN 40 billion. [[Seven years ago.]] At the moment, in 2022, after inclusion among others. this law, the educational subsidy will amount to PLN 56 billion. 16 billion PLN more than the Platform and PSL wanted to transfer to local governments. You mentioned the teachers' salaries, so... ? Speaking of subsidies, it was one year in the last thirty years, when education subsidies fell year by year. This only year is the government of PO-PSL and today the Civic Platform... [[Or maybe you can talk about your term of office. You're the only minister who's reduced the subsidy by...]] Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, I understand that it is necessary to be cultural towards ladies, but ladies are also obliged to maintain their personal culture. Screaming at people who have different views than you in the courtroom is simply uncultural not to say rude. You were talking about teachers' salaries. Let me remind you that for several years the POs and PSLs did not take into account the increase in teachers' salaries for 4 years at all. Therefore, we had to raise this level of wages and in the last few years, in total, over 32% of teachers' salaries have increased. It's true that this year it's only 4.4% and this is comparable to what was received by the budget sphere, and this was followed by the Sejm and the government, proposing this kind of raise, because the law on this increase in teachers' salaries was adopted by the Sejm. However, this bill, which some of you have noticed, raises the salaries of teachers starting work in the first years of work, because their salaries - I agree - are unsatisfactory. Hence, we propose a 20% increase in teacher's salary in the first year of work. Do you think that's not enough? After all, one of you has said that you're offering a 20% raise. There's 20% good, and here's 20% good. You don't think it's good. [[For everyone.]] The State said that this law introduces additional bureaucratic obligations. I don't know what bill you were reading. You may have some other bill you've been referring to, but in this project, we're removing bureaucratic obligations. We eliminate the rigid deadlines for registering teachers for traineeships, we remove the reports and reporting obligations they have to perform, but you believe that this is an additional bureaucracy. It's an alternate reality. Either you can't read with understanding what is one of the basic requirements that we make for students both in primary school and in high school, or you're just lying consciously. I hope it's the latter, because it would be better for your intelligence and for your perception. [[Extremely uncultural words.]] These changes from the point of view of start-ups are good changes because they help them to gain the degree of professional promotion, the degree of the appointed teacher. [[Why doesn't anyone like it?]] We're shortening the six-year period. Now, after the adoption of this law, the teacher will be able to get the degree of teacher appointed after 4 years of work. The state has talked a lot about ideology and the role of curator, indicating that the curator will now judge every teacher. I do not know how you imagine it, how several hundred thousand teachers, over half a million, because there are so many in the Polish education system, would be individually evaluated by the curator on a daily basis. I don't know how you imagine it. [[But your parole officer Nowak knows.]] In any case, in this or in any other draft law, we do not propose such a thing. The composition of the examination committee, Madame, is identical to the rules that were in operation several and several years ago. The representative of the pedagogical supervisory authority shall be one of several persons on the examination committee. [[You're reducing the number of experts.]] From your point of view... Perhaps you think it sounds good to say that once again you are lying and propagandizing about the fact that today the probation officer will judge every teacher himself. You lie, you lie, and you lie again, and you lie about it. This draft law does not only introduce increases for start-ups teachers. They're still teachers, only names change. We want them to be able to demonstrate practical skills, not just theoretical skills. I don't see anything wrong with a teacher telling me what he was doing as part of his duties for the first few years of his job... The point is that for four years of work, a teacher will have the care of a mentor, a more experienced teacher, who will help him enter the profession, show him what he needs to change, show him how to teach classes so that they are attractive to the students, so that they can effectively pass on knowledge and skills. Is there something wrong with that? Is there anything wrong with wanting teachers to start working more than they do right now? I don't see anything wrong with it, but listening to you, I feel like you just don't want it. I don't know why you're talking about ideology in every bill. Perhaps you want to lead to the ideology of schools. I do not see any ideology in this bill or in any solution that we propose. There are provisions on how professional promotion is to work, how EU funds from Erasmus+ are to be supervised, with the European Solidarity Corps. But you don't seem to notice it at all. E.g. We want school heads to provide information on how many teachers are needed in individual schools so that they can have this kind of information at all. We think it's a practical solution, but you don't seem to notice it at all. You focus on your imaginations, on what you think is written in the bill, not referring at all to its text. I ask the High Sejm to adopt a bill which is good for teachers, allows for increased salaries, facilitates, re-bureaucratizes professional promotion and introduces practical elements to it. It is worth accepting. You also asked for consultations. According to Polish law, every draft law prepared by the government is subject to consultation. We sent him to dozens of institutions that sent their comments. Some of these comments have been taken into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u226	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of the project is to simplify and re-bureaucratise the system of teacher promotion, since it is alleged that it is overly bureaucratic in relation to the previous system of promotion. Teachers are to be wound up by two degrees of professional promotion and are to be replaced by a title: a teacher without a degree of professional promotion and without change: an appointed teacher and a qualified teacher. However, the project raises some concerns in the teacher environment. One concerns a fixed-term contract for the first 2 years of work. This causes uncertainty and stability of work, as well as major problems with credit. Therefore, I ask you to answer: Shouldn't the Ministry build a sense of stability in employment and security among teachers and those wishing to become teachers? At the same time, please indicate whether the teacher's percentage remuneration should not be calculated e.g. from the minimum amount. The annual budget law repeatedly forgot to raise teachers' salaries while raising the minimum amount.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u228	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On the occasion of this short break, I allow myself to greet a group of students of the winners of the competition for parliamentarianism from schools from Gorlicki and Nowy Sądecki districts, namely Staszówka, Gorlice, Bobba, Grybów and Nawojowa. [[Applause]] We cordially greet the countries and young people who are educated in politics, I understand. The committee responsible submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Public Finance Act and the Act - Environmental Law, print No 2362. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible submitted its position on information on the activities of the Ombudsman in 2021 and on the state of compliance with the rights of the child in Poland, print No 2366. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point on the matter. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Polish Tourism Organization and the Act on Gambling (Prints Nos 2353 and 2363). I ask Mr Grzegorz Matusiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u229	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At today's meeting of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism, the bill on amending the Act on the Polish Tourism Organization and the Act on gambling was examined. Two amendments were tabled, which were accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u230	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Marek Matuszewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[He's gonna come because he's got a commission.]] In the meantime, Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club a position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on the Polish Tourist Organization and the Act on Gambling, print No 2353. We discussed it at the committee meeting at first reading. I think that in general this project can be divided into two parts. One that is not discussed is the issue of the Physical Culture Development Fund and the transfer of additional money, because, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about an additional PLN 200 million for Polish sport. I think that, as a rule, every money invested in Polish sport, and especially as regards the part that is to fund from the state's budget the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture, this is the right solution. If we take into account how many requests from local governments are coming every year in terms of strategic investment programme or Sports Poland, we know that at this stage we are able to achieve about 35% of the demand. I think the next millions will be able to help. Ladies and gentlemen! As the Civic Coalition, we repeatedly stress that as far as the substantive assessment is concerned... On the part of Minister Bortniczuk at the committee meeting, it was also ensured that the question of the validity of the investments concerned, especially if they are provided with an additional amount, was decided by the substantive committee, which was appointed by the Minister at the Ministry of Sport, and to refrain from granting positive and negative points. Especially after a substantive assessment, which is prepared by specialists. So we ask you very much and we will, ladies and gentlemen, seek it. The point is that if, thanks to this amendment, we increase funding, we should take into account the issues of substantive evaluation. There is certainly no comment on this issue on our part. With regard to the promotion of tourist advantages, we can of course say that it is an interesting idea to promote these tourist qualities through the Polish Tourist Organization through sports clubs that will take place in international competitions. I just think that there is a key question - as we are all here and we are discussing - about specific, objective criteria, ladies and gentlemen. This is absolutely crucial. Of course, this does not result from the provisions of this amendment and the preparation of objective criteria concerning what clubs, in what amount they have the opportunity to receive funding, is very important. In a moment, we have the end of June and as a resident. Greater Poland I can ask if Lech Poznań, Polish champion, will still have a chance to get this grant and on what terms it will be implemented. I think that, in general, at the moment, the representatives of sport really expect specific information, because from the information that comes to us, which has also been presented, in the first year the catalogue of teams is to be closed. There are five basics, including football, handball, basketball, volleyball and hockey. We can ask why the directory should be closed and why we should harm other teams, such as rugby or e.g. Weed hockey. After all, we are aware that these are disciplines, which also need support, or perhaps even more than other disciplines. As the Civic Coalition, we want to propose an amendment to extend this catalogue in terms of promotion not only to sports clubs, but also to Polish athletes. I think that we all, as we are here, agree that we have many great athletes who could very well promote the tourist advantages of Poland, especially in this difficult situation, given the geopolitical situation. I think that - I am looking at the Minister here - our last meeting of the Sub-Committee on Tourism has made us aware that the hotel industry (the bell), e.g. on the Belarusian border, he has many problems. So that, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the entire bill - we support, but also allow me to make an amendment to the marshal's hands. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u232	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, When the government takes the initiative to increase the resources for sport, to modernise the sports base, the Left Messenger Club will always support such activities. Today, the basic sources of funding for Polish sport are the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture and the state budget, to a lesser extent - the fund to occupy extracurricular ones. The first two funds represent almost 70% all expenditure, which in total are intended for sport, the modernisation of the sports base, the sport of people with disabilities. The creation of these two funds was carried out by the Polish Sejm as a result of the parliamentary initiative. Now we have a government initiative which aims, first of all, to increase this year from the state budget from the Minister of Finance - not from the Minister in part 25, but from the Minister of Finance - by PLN 200 million for the Physical Culture Development Fund and by PLN 5 million for the Central Sport Centre. Also in the next 10 years it is expected that this fund will be strengthened by PLN 200 million. Only from the justification for the Act is the provision concerning POT. The point is that POT will have a new legal tool to promote Poland through sports clubs participating in international competition, in cups, etc. The amount of these funds for the POT will be governed by the agreement between the Minister responsible for Sport and the President of POT. There, the minister will determine what amount it will be. In the explanatory memorandum to the Act it is written that this year it will be the amount of PLN 60 million, but this decision is outside the control of Parliament, because it is only the will expressed in the description of the Act, not in any document having the nature of the Act. I hope that the Polish Tourist Organization will consider this as an important element of strengthening the image of Poland through sports clubs participating in the competitions. All those who have already wiped their hands that there will be extra money for sports clubs for their functioning - somebody even mentioned shopping new players, other things - it's just that I think they're wrong. This is not additional money for league games or participation in international competition, it is for strengthening the image of Poland through sports clubs. If not, why the Polish Tourist Organization? Why an entity, a state legal person, who is involved in creating the image of Poland on the international stage on behalf of the State? The second point is that these are the resources for sport investments that are needed as much as possible. It follows from the justification that only 35% are able to respond positively to requests made mainly by local authorities. Nor do we have a legal solution that would support the sports base of sports clubs run by other entities, not only by entities and the Treasury or the Academy of Physical Education in terms of strategic investments. Next: I think we should try to make these measures more. Why more? In its report on the implementation of the State budget, the government commended that the Minister for Sports had more money by 133% in 2021 for 2015. But all we have to do is check how the state budget expenditures in 2015 were to be spent in 2021: they increased by 68%. GDP increased by 63%. Question: "Is this a cause for glory?" No, sport, that's what it says, and the outlays aren't a priority. That is why this solution brings us in some way closer to the fact that we are following an increase in expenditure equal to (the bell) in relation to what the state budget gives. The Left Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u234	Mr Ireneusz Raś, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Polish Tourism Organization and the Act on Gambling, the Seym of Report No 2363, and the printing of the presentation of the Government Minister No 2353. High Seym! I think those issues that are raised in this change also respond to today's needs as a result of... I would like to draw attention to the circumstances that the Minister of Sport must take into account when it comes to the development of the base, the infrastructure of the sports base, construction and modernisation. As a result of galloping inflation and expensive local government units or clubs would not be able to achieve their intended objectives. The minister's real budget has shrunk. It is therefore a good thing that the additional money from the budget from the finance minister, who is a hunter of this cost in the form of greater revenues resulting from inflation... The Minister of Finance shares this part with the Minister of Sport, with the money, to try to make it even. The Member who preceded my speech also pointed out that the imbalance in the Minister's raising of funds for sport and tourism was only due to this part of the Physical Culture Development Fund, which has had influences from gambling, and for years this stream of money has been greater. We have always, for years, been leaning down here on the fact that this part of the budget is not completed. For the first time, there's this correction, but I'm talking about objective circumstances. It seems that this money does not give great comfort to the Minister of Sport, but it certainly gives some compensation. That's what we're paying attention to. Remember that the great projects that the predecessors carried out were implemented through budgetary resources. That's what happened to the Orlik program. Here I would like to convey my bows through Minister Gut-Mostowy for Minister Bortniczuk on behalf of the Members of the Polish Coalition for saying that the eagles will be renovated, that they have been drawn as a project, a programme of political predecessors, which is to be materialized in some way. This is a very good decision and I am glad that it has been made. Touching a new challenge that seems to be the result of the work of Minister Gut-Mostowy, but also Minister Bortniczuk... There are new measures to promote tourism through sport. It is good that tourism affected so much because of COVID - we have already talked about it, I do not want to repeat myself here - gets a new impulse. An idea? Undiscoverable, because other countries implement it, even through sports clubs not their country, but internationally recognized brands. E.g. Azerbaijan has promoted itself on T-shirts for years, as I remember well, Atletico Madrid and has done so effectively. I would just like to point out one thing: it is clear that even the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice has tabled an amendment at the committee meeting to shorten the date of entry into force of the rules: from 14 days to the next day. This is probably related to the fact that this year some European games are starting, you can say, on days. Don't do it on your knees... To be honest, if we sat here, if the best professionals sat down, it would be difficult for us to establish criteria in the algorithm to be fair and clear. You have to use caution here. Today, this year, I would adopt some simplified solutions (the bell) so that they wouldn't get in our way. We praise it. We don't make any amendments at this stage. We will support these changes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u236	Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The heart enjoys more money for sport. Bravo. The Polish Tourism Organization will receive a targeted grant from the state budget to promote our country through sports clubs. Bravo. Let's increase funding, but let's not move sources of funding. Annual budget grants will also fund the Physical Culture Development Fund. The new head of Witold Roman's Central Sports Centre will be pleased. Good luck, Mr. Witold, a quiet job, because too many frequent changes just as COS director. POT is to promote Poland through clubs participating in international competitions. In the explanatory statement we find that now cooperation will include, instantly, clubs within the disciplines: football, basketball, handball, volleyball and hockey - not added, whether on ice or on grass. From the booth of mockers, even here in the Seym, it was immediately stated that thanks to football teams the growth of Poland's recognition may not be possible. Even by abandoning these malices, it is likely that some clubs can already be eliminated from the competitions before the law enters into force, especially since it is necessary to conclude agreements with clubs, to clarify the issues of rights to image, advertising. Copyrights in individual sports federations may vary considerably. As I read in the explanatory memorandum, there is no other common promotional password, no information portal, and the Ministry assumes that 45 teams can participate in the new season. Taking five disciplines as a justification, that would mean that on average he will receive nine teams in each. This isn't real. And I'm an optimist in life, especially an optimist in sports. Minister! The Poland 2050 Club - please read the justification - will support this project, because sport deserves support, deserves special help, but let's not spoil the policy of the world of sport. Don't let political rust appear in sports. Let's discuss it. Let's increase funding, but let's not move sources of funding... [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u238	Go ahead and finish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u239	Mr President and Mr President. Let us also not limit Members' statements at committee meetings. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u240	Thank you, but now you can talk a little longer. Please, Mr Marek Matuszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I took part in a speech on behalf of the Law and Justice Club on the amendment of the Law of 25 June 1999 on the Polish Tourism Organization. This amendment is intended to give a new task for the Polish Tourist Organization, consisting of cooperation with the Minister responsible for physical culture in the field of promotion of Poland by sports clubs in team sports, taking part in international sports competitions. This solution will allow the Polish Tourist Organization to carry out the task, and will allow to provide appropriate targeted grants from the state budget. As part of the implementation of the task, POT will cooperate with sports clubs in team sports in order to promote Poland. This project in the section amending the Law on Gambling of 19 November 2009 assumes that the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture will be provided with annual grants from the State budget. These measures will increase financial support for these tasks, including those related to the development of sport infrastructure, in the field of law. The tasks of POT are set out in Article. 3 of the first POT Act and these are: promotion of Poland as an attractive tourist country, 2nd - ensuring the functioning and development of the Polish Tourist Information System in Poland and the world, 3rd - initiating, evaluating and supporting plans for the development and modernisation of tourist infrastructure, 4th - carrying out other tasks entrusted by the authorities and units of local self-government and organisations of entrepreneurs in the field of tourism, including economic and professional self-government and associations operating in this field on the principles set out in the agreement concluded between these bodies and units and POT, and 5th - inspiring the creation of regional tourism organisations covering the area of one or more voivodships and local tourism organisations covering the area of one or more local self-government units as well as already present. The proposed bill gives the possibility to entrust the Polish Tourist Organization with new tasks including promotion of Poland by sports clubs taking part in international sports competitions. For more than 20 years he has been carrying out statutory tasks related to the comprehensive promotion of Poland, has adequate resources, competences and know-how to create space for effective cooperation between sport and tourism. Many years of experience in cooperation with partners such as state institutions, self-government institutions, associations and commercial entities allow to identify POT as a natural project operator. Among partners you can also identify those related strictly to sport, among others. sports foundations and associations, sports infrastructure operators, as well as the Polish Olympic Committee. So far, the aim of this cooperation was to promote Polish tourism in Poland and abroad using the so-called. media anchors, which were sporting events of national or international rank. POT has also successfully implemented a number of campaigns and activities aimed at promoting Poland in the context of major sporting events such as the Euro 2012 European Championship, the European Volleyball Championship 2017. In addition, POT, in addition to its extensive competence in image building, brand promotion or effective cooperation on the sport-tourism line, has efficient organizational resources and experience in establishing cooperation with external actors, as it has been introducing numerous innovations for years, conducting media campaigns using modern communication channels. She is also responsible for extensive projects such as the Polish Tourist Bon, and has repeatedly demonstrated organisational capacity to carry out the process of selection of applications in the implementation of monitoring and clearance of tasks. This experience will be used in the construction of a model of cooperation with sports clubs, which will become further tools of promotion of Poland. I would also like to raise the subject for a second - because here many Members from the opposition said that sport is not a priority for Law and Justice - so I would like to say that the Government of Law and Justice today has very good information for local governments, small rural and rural communities: today Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced the construction of a thousand sports halls with light construction, funding is up to 70%. [[Applause]] It's just to be clear about sports initiatives. [[No more than 3 million.]] [[And 100 bypasses are here?]] And going back to the subject of today's law, I will say that international sports events are an ideal opportunity to promote Poland as an attractive tourist destination. Many countries use international sports events to present their image, values and tourist attractions. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, I recommend the adoption of the project (the bell) in accordance with the print report No 2353. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u242	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u243	I have to - I'm sorry, Marshal - at first explain only to this part of the room that these applause were ironic. I mean. The Prime Minister made a joke that he would build a thousand halls and the opposition would joke that I congratulate him. So that it is not that we keep our fingers crossed - we do not keep our fingers crossed absolutely, we know perfectly well that it is unrealistic. Ladies and gentlemen! We are in the process of discussing theoretically cosmetic change, although it must be made clear to ourselves that the Ministry of Sport is useless to us. It was the Ministry of Sport that you even eliminated, but then there was the need to feed the tummy so-called. coalitionists and suddenly the Ministry of Sports was founded. On the way you had an idea for a central sports office, it didn't work out, it's hard to do, but in any case, pumping money through this ministry is completely unnecessary. That's once. Two - subsidising sport is something that you should never do, because you do not raise the level of sport by subsidising it. You really guarantee yourself a place in the box and the opportunity to set up for the award where these awards should be taken by athletes. It is very often the case that politicians promote themselves in the light of athletes, and of course this is also the case: self-promotion. You will spend state money, each working Pole paying taxes will add a dozen zlotys to this project, between 15 and 20 zlotys per year from each Pole, I note, annually, in order to be able to carry out this project - this is how the calculation of this law looks - while it is not your merit there to take into account. Sportsmen like Robert Lewandowski or Iga Świątek are ambassadors of our Polish cause. These are people who create an image of Poland abroad. Not your Polish National Foundation, which has been called to do this, and what it does, I don't think anybody knows anymore, just these athletes. These are people who create an image of Poland outside. You want to pretend like you're helping sports clubs by giving money, but of course you're going to use it politically. This is, ladies and gentlemen, vile, and you should never do that. Sport should be a completely private sector, be completely released to the market and should simply be maintained by fans, because we are all fans of this or other sport. I've got half a minute left, and I'll be quick to mention: there's a gambling bill mentioned there. Of course, you have not dealt with the most important things, what your predecessors have done to spoil, i.e. poker, the fact that poker is still illegal in Poland, the fact that I cannot date a friend, that we will play for a hundred or who pays for a beer tonight. Our Polish poker players win millions of dollars in the world and in Poland they are not allowed to play because politicians in this House invented a ban. That's not what you guys did, and it could have changed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u244	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. One minute to ask a question. The first is Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Investing in the development of sport infrastructure and financing of investments involving sports facilities should be assessed positively, and this is necessary. However, as always, the financing of these tasks is a legitimate concern. What will be the criteria for granting funding? Minister, please answer specifically: Who will be able to apply for funding and under what conditions, under what conditions? Please also answer the question whether a provision has been added to the project to extend the scope of the grant to include the current maintenance of accommodation facilities, the addition of which was requested by the Central Sports Centre. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u246	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u247	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, it seems that the visible sign of this bill will be PiS politicians, who will again present various tablets in Poland with information about how much they have done. This is, of course, degenerating for the whole funding system of different areas of the country. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Sport and Tourism also decided to take part in this disgusting competition. I want to ask you why it's only possible for sports teams to raise funds. We have many individual athletes, such as Iga Świątek or Robert Lewandowski, who are present in the most important events in the world of sport, whereas international competitions of our sports teams are sometimes not even broadcast by television. I don't want to mention which discipline it's about anymore. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question: Why then should only those disciplines which are not even visible on television be financed, and there will be no possibility of financing those people who actually bring pride to Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u248	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to the draft law, it affects local government units by increasing the possibility of financing the construction of sport infrastructure. I would very much ask for a written answer, because the question is essential: How much will the value of funding for local government units increase this year and possibly in the future? In what formula will these funds be transferred to local governments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u250	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You write in the explanatory memorandum that the solutions discussed are an innovative system of promoting Poland with participation of sports clubs in sport in the European arena, using promotional opportunities and unique potentials of individual clubs. Therefore, 45 Polish teams are expected to participate in the first edition of the project. The novelty of the system is that you have found a way to spend money on sports clubs that will run in European cups. I would kindly ask you to give me a written answer to the question which disciplines of sport have the chance to obtain money in accordance with this provision that you present here. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister on his commitment to the construction of sports halls. I would like to remind you from this point, Prime Minister, that in 2018 you promised to build a sports hall for the athletes and shooters of Zawisza. We're still waiting for this hall in Bydgoszcz. Prime Minister, let's go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u252	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The funds from the Physical Culture Development Fund for the modernisation, construction and renovation of the sports base have been a very important instrument, and since 1994 they have actually been the only effective instrument in the hands of the State. Let me remind you that this fund's revenues are payments for numbers games. As far as this programme is concerned, first of all, I would like to say that in Poland about 12% The municipalities still do not have a full-size sports hall. According to your information, 35 powiats have no swimming pool, therefore this delay effect should be corrected through a special programme. The second question concerns the matter of this agreement with POT. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much funding is provided for these sports clubs? Because the minister will entrust the task to POT, which means he will give the money in full as much as the agreement provides. On the other hand, as far as the sports club is concerned, will this sport club be entrusted with this task, i.e. financed entirely or financed or with its own resources? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u254	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u255	Respected Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Every money for Polish sport is a good decision, but in this case there are a number of doubts. Such questions arise: Why should this funding apply only to a selected group of athletes? Why are you dividing Poles into better and worse? In the Act, the record supposedly applies to all sports associations in the case of team sports and club games. But why just club games? Why only team games? Why only a cleverly chosen group of athletes, which is described in detail in the explanatory memorandum to the bill? Will athletes with disabilities also be able to benefit from this refinement? Another question arises as to whether the government wants Poland to be promoted by Polish athletes or specifically selected sports clubs, who were promised financial support during the election campaign, and the proposed changes to the law are to give legal support. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish sport has never been as politicized before as it was in your governments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u256	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When the government asks for more funding for sport, such measures should be supported. The programme of support for champions is intended to strengthen Polish teams in international competition. It's a program with huge money with unclear funding criteria. A lot of questions. Why will outstanding Polish athletes not be able to promote Poland by concluding agreements with POT? PiS wants to support about 45 sports clubs, but only in five disciplines, as we read in the explanatory memorandum. Why only in five disciplines? Why will only team sports promote Poland? What about the sport of disabled people? PiS created this project because it is not possible for the State to grant state aid from the State's cashier to private entities. Therefore, they invented the promotion of Poland by sport in order to be able to spend state money and distribute it according to unknown criteria. This project will strengthen the teams... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your marshal, please, just a moment. This project will strengthen teams with large budgets, and the weak in the league will be many. There will be weak people and middlemen. Do you mean to deepen potential differences among Polish teams in Polish league? In order to have a high-level representation, you have to have a high-level league, equal league, not weaklings and strong men. You want to give the Poles a league to one goal, weak tails at the end of the table? And my final question: Is it true that these measures will also be directed towards support for sports infrastructure for football clubs from the Extraclass and the First League, as announced by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in January this year? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u258	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u259	By the Act on Gambling, I would like to ask why you ban gambling in Poland. Is it because you care about the welfare of the people? Rather, you care about your money, the money you earn from gambling, leading a gambling monopoly on totolots for decades. You can win a six, the odds are 1:14,000,000. If a poor man buys two tickets a week for 50 years, the odds of winning will be 1:2 500 000. You're running a ridiculously profitable gambling game. At the same time, you ban gambling to cut out the competition. Alternatively, in exceptional situations you can grant a gambling license, because for that you can get huge money in bribery. And the fate of people and the freedom of adult people to you lotto. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u260	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This addition of a task in the Act of the Polish Tourist Organization, a new task, i.e. promotion of Poland through sport in team sports, is the right idea. Following this idea goes to POT, means of purpose. On the other hand, I have doubts, knowing life in recent years, whether it will not be primarily the promotion of the Polish government. By the way, the Polish Tourist Organization will strengthen, which will conclude agreements with the Minister of Sport. I have this question: Is it possible for POT to organize mass events through sports clubs, which are also a good promotion of Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will he cooperate with the local government, which knows best how to promote not only Poland but its own region? Will there be promotion of health-promoting behaviours, which are very, very lacking in our society, for example in the fight against obesity of children and young people? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u262	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u263	Respected Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill, of course, goes in the right direction. Sport is a big magnet. Sport is one of the few factors that are above politics, which can connect many Poles. And it is good that Polish athletes will promote Poland, that they will also promote tourism in Poland, because thanks to this we may have more tourists, we will be able as a society as Polish companies to earn a little more on it. But I wouldn't want to limit this bill to just sports teams. Iga Świątek, Hubert Hurkacz, Kamil Stoch, Tadeusz Michalik, many other outstanding Polish athletes who are known in Europe and the world and who are also this magnet - they do not appear on club teams. And I think that such outstanding personalities should also be used to promote our country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u264	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Olszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u265	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Sport, in addition to cultural and recreational values, is used to build character and relationships between people. It is also an excellent and effective tool for promoting Poland on the international stage. All the more so the fact that discipline such as basketball, handball or volleyball will be included in the program. In my opinion, it's a thoughtful and wise choice, because I don't think we need to be reminded of moments when we were on the lips of the whole world, participating in international competitions or, like last time, playing at the level of teams in the European Championships. I believe that this is an appropriate continuation of really well coordinated actions. Therefore, I would like to ask the question: Is there, apart from those disciplines, among which there is still football and hockey, an extension of the program to include other sports disciplines? Are there any other sports that are also developing (the Bell) in a very fast development system in Europe? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u266	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The first part of the bill, which directs funds for the construction of buildings, is justified. By the way, it is worth noting that we are starting something and rarely ending it. The Orlik action could be terminated, because these eagles were created a little bit, but already the Dolphin action, under which children's swimming pools are built at schools... [[Pools are small.]] ...it would be necessary to support, or strengthen. In short, if we want to finish some action, let's finish it. If we want to strengthen it, let's give more money to local governments, they'll run it. Then there will be some effect from start to finish. And when we get halfway, it doesn't work. On the other hand, the latter proposal that the Polish Tourism Organisation should transfer funds for promotion through sport, but it raises some doubts. Great, like Lewandowski or Iga Świątek, do not need funding. However, it is about how to formulate this help for other clubs, because it is (the bell) the key that raises doubts. Let's try to define it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u268	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u269	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am against this law, especially the part where funds from the Polish Tourist Organization are transferred to the first-class, richest clubs in Poland. These richest clubs in Poland have been sponsored for a long time by the richest companies, such as companies of the Treasury or Polsat. I think this bill is made to relieve sponsors, not help promote their country abroad. The Polish Tourism Organization is to promote Poland. If we want to promote her, let's make it work. Allow these funds to be used by small clubs, such as those who send several thousand Polish children to foreign tournaments each year. There come a dozen thousand children from abroad, followed by tens of thousands of parents, fans and all kinds of friends. And that's the electorate we should go to with the money. And not again, Legia gets the money, I don't know, Widzew gets the money... [[Voice from the hall: Legion does not play for the cup.]] ... Vistula Kraków will get the money and none of it will have anything, because they will all fall off in the first round. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish Tourism Organization is to promote Poland and Polish tourism, not Polish sport. Not Polish sports. If you want to promote Polish sport, find money elsewhere, not in the Polish Tourist Organization. This organization doesn't do anything anyway, and now she's gonna have an excuse - she's not gonna do anything because she doesn't have any money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u270	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u271	One last thing. Tourism should never be in the Ministry of Sport. Tourism is a dozen percent of Polish GDP and should long have its important place in the Ministry of Economy, with its Deputy Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Tourism is mass.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u272	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u273	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The most important thing about sports is fair play. There is no fair play in this bill, they are better and they are worse at the start. [[Applause]] And at the start, everyone should have a level playing field. We're talking about you saying it's going to be five disciplines and 45 teams. Why not more? Why not more teams? And why not people like Iga Christmas or other people who could definitely carry out this image campaign? Why don't I believe in fair play? Strategic investments, local investments. You do everything yourself, at the table, you give to those you want to give. There's no general rule. And the most important thing in sports is the rules. Those rules don't exist. I would like to ask you, by the way, to what extent you support various investments in the construction of halls, where there is support for local authorities from the Ministry of Sport, among others. I mean Mielec, because there's less than 30%. In what percentage do you finance the various facilities that are under way?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u274	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u275	I'll have a written reply, and I'll be asking questions at the finance committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u276	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[It's a fair play rule.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u277	God bless sportsmen and fans! Of course, they do not need this type of legal apparatus for anything. She needs popular authority in her every current incarnation to do well for this and this. Well, I'm asking in writing for a list of those you want to do well with this bill. Please list the disciplines - specifying the amounts - clubs, brands, signposts, banners you want to finance. Maybe some personalities will show up. In history, ladies and gentlemen, when Poles didn't even have their own country, they spontaneously formed such organizations... [[Around.]] ...like the gymnastics company of the Falcon. After all, it was under terrible partitions like mushrooms after rain that were formed falconically, from which our generation still uses (the Bell) and then, on this beautiful wave - the first sports clubs. At the beginning of the 20th century, Poles went to the kicking ball: the oldest Lviv clubs, Rzeszow's Resovia. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not necessary for this authority, so hands off the sport, Of course, I won't support this bill, but I'm curious who you want to do right. Thank you in advance for your detailed response. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u278	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u279	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I also wanted to ask a question as a supporter - Lech Poznań fan, this year's Polish champion. We realize that on July 5th we already have the beginning of the Champions League, and in fact we do not yet have the rules to be prepared by POT. The point is that the football club, Lech Poznań, could also receive such funding. So I ask whether there will be a guarantee that the current Polish champion will receive such funding, because he will be the first to participate in the competitions. And the issue that has also been raised when it comes to financing sport investments. After all, we increase the FRKF by nearly 140 million. The idea is to change the rules, increase funding for certain strategic things, such as small pools or other important sports infrastructure, as is the case with this programme, which was announced today by Minister Bortniczuk. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not 30%, because some local governments only have that. If it's important to us, let's do 50%. or 70%. Then these investments can be made faster. [[Voice from the hall: On the east wall, not only the west wall.]] Also on the west wall, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u280	Please, Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050. I wanted to apologize to the Member. There really was an error in the apparatus, and it didn't look right.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u281	It's okay. Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Today you have made an amendment so that the bill will enter into force immediately, because you want to financially support the football clubs, which will soon be running in the cup games. But there is this statement in the explanatory memorandum: one common password is assumed, a coherent visualization of the whole project, as well as the creation of a web portal and other promotional tools. Minister, at what stage have the work been carried out? And as for the password, there's some kind of contest. We are really kind about helping sports. Maybe a contest for the students, maybe a contest for the fans. [[But it's a vacation.]] Yeah, but it's a vacation. The point is that it is not invented somewhere in advertising agencies' premises and to actually open up a little to the world (the bell) and to sports people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u282	Thank you very much. Last question, Mr Marek Matuszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u283	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Sports in Poland is developing and will develop because Polish people who love sport rule. It's undisputed. I am glad that more powerful millions will be allocated to the promotion of Poland through sport. This is very important for the tourism sector. That's a very good idea. I understand that the predecessors have never had such a great idea. Right now we hear it's bad, that's bad. Very good, Minister. You've come up with a very good idea. Many ruled, but nothing came up. Through sport, Minister, you can still do very, very much. We're talking about a thousand halls. [[3 years.]] A thousand sports halls in rural communities are a huge success and proof that law and justice loves sport. [[But we still have to build it. Promise it...]] Minister! [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is also important what some of the opposition said here. Finally, I want to stress this, tell football fans, football fans: some opposition doesn't like football. Unbelievable. Thank you very much. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: 3,000. Hal! That would be a challenge!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u284	That was the last question. I'm asking you to calm your emotions. This is the Seym Room. I'm asking you to calm down. [[A voice from the courtroom: But don't joke with the marshal. What happened this morning wasn't a seym.]] The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, Minister Andrzej Guta-Mostowy. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: 300 million halls! Why?]] Gentlemen, I am so sorry. Order in the courtroom. [[Voice from the courtroom: But we will not scatter anything, Marshal.]] Mr President, you are now speaking with the Minister. [[The voice from the hall: 'Cause the red card will give you the marshal.]] Do you want me to rule out a member of the House for obstruction? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u285	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for such a lively discussion. As usual, we show that sport sometimes combines, but sometimes also divides, while if we work and act for the good of sport, we should enjoy it. Thank you for the discussion in committee, but also for today's questions. Let me refer in detail to each of them. The department concerned shall, in due time, answer questions in which it wishes to be answered in writing. As regards Mrs Navel's question, we will allow ourselves to be answered in writing. The case concerns the Central Sports Centre. These measures, which are intended, are exceptional measures. This year 5 million PLN. In many of your questions there was a thread about why in this programme of promotion of Polish tourism we only address team sports clubs, which achieve some success. The basic intention of this law is to create an additional incentive mechanism and support for those clubs which are successful internationally, and to promote Poland as an attractive tourist destination under appropriate agreements with these clubs. That's why the effect seems to be double. First of all, this is the support of Polish sport and the results of the best teams, this is the intention of this law. Secondly, support for the tourism industry and support for Poland as a tourist destination. Of course, we realise that the catalogue of these disciplines or this solution, which limits it only to team sports clubs, can be changed in the future, verified according to how this program will function. I would like to stress that this programme, which was de facto a few months or several weeks ago, directly articulated and developed at an express rate, has this form and these coming months, especially this year, will be treated as some way maybe not testing, but observing how It's working. The future will show how it will be possible to modify and verify these solutions in an appropriate way. The most important thing is that sport will receive additional resources, I would stress, and they will be devoted to tourism promotion. [[Voice from the hall: Not for sport only for selected teams.]] As I said, the future can show solutions that will show that you need to modify these selected teams or those selected clubs. This, of course, is not the solution that gives everyone. This is an obvious way to motivate or give a certain bonus for success, because such terminology is also accepted in sport. If this is the will of Parliament in the future, this programme will be changed accordingly. We will answer the questions of Mr Adamczyk and Mr Shopiński in writing. As regards Mr Tomaszewski's questions, I would like to clarify. Yes, the funding for this moment is clarified that it is an amount of about 60 million a year. Of course, it can be treated flexibly according to the relevant decisions under the agreement of the Polish Tourism Organization and the Minister. In a situation where it turns out that this amount will be changed, the entire pool of 200 million of this law remains in sport, i.e. it is in this pool related to the Physical Culture Development Fund. Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis' question also concerned why only those selected sports. This was the intention of the designer of the Council of Ministers and Minister Kamil Bortniczuk with the sports community. [[Voice from the hall: What sports environment?]] Let me stress once again: let us consider this program as the one that we want to start quickly. As it has been said, the game starts any day now. If we want to start this programme in a few weeks' time, this is what this change has done, which shows that the law is in force from the day following the adoption, not that we should consult and implement this programme in the late autumn, because that would threaten us. [[Voice from the room:... consultation to do something, Minister.]] About the question... Yes, these funds are intended only for promotion. The Polish Tourist Organization, which has tools, experience as well as relevant knowledge and cooperating companies, will properly assess a certain promotional value of these clubs whether individual sports and these activities will only be coordinated and financed by the Polish Tourism Organisation. Mr Grabczuk's question was why only team sports. I've already raised that question. Mr Olszewski's question was whether other disciplines were planned. As I have already stressed, a certain observation of this project and this law will allow in consultation with the sports community to modify the scope accordingly when it comes to these teams. I would like to stress that although rugby is a very good discipline, at this moment it is not on the list of those disciplines that will be funded, but we wish you success in the international arena. [[Voice from the room: Thank you very much.]] The question of Mr Rutnicki as to whether Lech Poznań will already be able to experience the benefits of this law. Of course, it all depends on what will be the final shape, what will be the deadline for the introduction and how good clubs will succeed on the international stage, but we wish you the best. As I say, the basic intention of this law and these additional resources is to get additional funds to sport, to clubs that have results. The question of Mr Zimoch is, at what stage is the design of promotional activities, whether they are designed. At this level, we don't have that kind of action. We know that the Polish Tourism Organization together with its agendas is an experienced institution when it comes to promoting tourism in the Polish, national arena. Let us remind - 14 foreign centers, three are in the process of designing - in Prague, Budapest, and also in Israel. We know that the Polish Tourism Organization can effectively promote Poland abroad. We think it's absolutely indisputable. Poland's tourism needs additional measures to show that Poland is a safe destination, a destination that has natural value, which is so much needed in Central Europe today, desirable. It seems that this law will allocate additional large resources to the promotion of tourism in European countries. If there are questions that we have not answered, I declare that we will, of course, answer them quickly in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u286	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Public Finance and the Act - Environmental Law (Prints Nos 2352 and 2362). I would like to ask Mrs Eve Szymanska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u287	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Public Finance and the Act - Environmental Law, print No. 2352. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, sent on 17 June 2022 the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for first reading. The Public Finance Commission, after first reading and after a turbulent discussion and considering this draft law at its meeting on 22 June 2022, and therefore today, asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u288	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u289	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the Act on Public Finance and the Act - Environmental Law. First of all, I would like to point out that this will be a positive position. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, is included in print No 2352. This has already been said by the rapporteur. The project responds to the need for further alignment of the Public Finance Act with the current macroeconomic situation. What is most important, at the end of May this year, the European Commission considered it necessary to maintain the overall exit clause by the end of 2023. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, it signaled to the individual countries of the European Union that this clause should be applied in line with the neutral attitude of national budgetary policies, i.e. without specially strong consolidation and fiscal expansion. Ladies and gentlemen, this is primarily the result of the macroeconomic situation that we have across Europe - not only in Europe but also throughout the world - related to the COVID-19 pandemic, broken supply chains, the very complex situation of the global economy and what unfortunately we have been experiencing in recent months, which has been happening since 24 February this year. I'm talking about the invasion of Russia into Ukraine. This has caused, ladies and gentlemen, the processes we have hoped for as the European Union... We were hoping to get out of these problems faster and faster. Unfortunately, this is moving further and further away, which is why the European Commission has decided to extend this period until 2023. Ladies and gentlemen! We must bear in mind that we do not include investment costs in the stabilisation of the expenditure rule. This is insanely important. It's got to be marked. Investments will not be put in a common bag. Even individual funds will be added to the common bag. As far as our country is concerned, I am thinking about the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. All this, ladies and gentlemen, is aimed at adapting the formula stabilizing the expenditure rule to the current macroeconomic situation in Poland and Europe, to the crazy inflation and problems not only related to this. I am thinking about the problems - in particular in Europe - of unemployment and GDP growth. I would remind you that many countries, ladies and gentlemen, have not yet been rebuilt after the COVID period. The economies of individual European countries still have a problem with turning back and forth on the path as sustainable as possible. I think that rapid development can unfortunately not be said for some countries. This is not our country's share, because economic growth in Poland is one of the highest, and one of the lowest in Europe, which is very happy, is the level of unemployment. All this, ladies and gentlemen, makes us support this solution. I say this on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, but I am convinced that this formula should also be supported by all other clubs, because it is not only the voice on the one hand of the European Commission, but it is certainly the voice of reason that is necessary. at this difficult time of fight against economic problems in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u290	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The bill we're talking about is a law on stabilizing expenditure rules. But in fact, young people who are watching and listening to our deliberations need not know at all what some abstract stabilizing spending rule is. So let's say what we're really talking about. We are really talking about the money of Poles, we are talking about your parents' wallets, and above all we are talking about the fact that PiS wants to do everything so that people can buy less and less for their money. Because what is the state after 7 years of PiS rule? On everyone's lips is expensive, i.e. double-digit inflation - in economics manuals they call it galloping. Poles, especially pensioners, are terrified that they will not have how to warm their homes and houses for winter, and even if there is coal, it will be so expensive that they will not be able to afford to buy it. Young Poles who have borrowed money for their apartment are terrified that they will have to sell it because they will not be able to pay their instalments. Entrepreneurs are losing liquidity, they are breaking contracts, and contracts are subject to a price condition, because their business plans are ruined, and loan instalments are billing up. At one of the meetings I attended recently, the preschool principal told me that the parents were taking the children out of kindergarten before lunch, because the feed rate went up and they couldn't afford that fee. What should the government do in this situation? Of course, what's written in every economics textbook. It should draw money from the market, it should reduce the amount of money on the market, otherwise everything will be more and more expensive. And what does the PiS government do? It brings to the Sejm a law that increases the amount of money on the market and allows to raise the deficit next year. In fact, when you raise the deficit, you raise the public debt, which means you're about to introduce it quietly, as you usually do, some taxes, so that you can pay off that debt. For six years, the PiS government has been indebted to us, attention, to PLN 0.5 trillion. And in the long-term financial plan of the state says that over the last 2 years of their governments will add PLN 0,5 trillion to this further PLN 0.25 trillion. The cost of handling the debt next year will be PLN 100 billion. I'm going to repeat that someone doesn't think he's overheard: next year we're going to pay PLN 100 billion for debt service. Renovation of Polish bonds is almost the highest in the whole European Union, only Hungarians and Romanians have to pay more so that someone even wants to lend them money. They don't want to lend to us either, because they know that the PiS government is irresponsible and incompetent. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which has guarantees of the Polish state, this year twice cancelled the tender for bonds because there was no interest. And yet? Speaking of the deficit, because at the meeting of the finance committee, the finance minister proved that he did not understand that the deficit was uneven. Yes, during the Civil Platform governments, the deficit was high. But why? Because even during the biggest financial crisis in 100 years, we have invested, built thousands of motorways, national roads, district roads. Why? Just so you can brag about the fact that there's no unemployment. Because you may not know it, but there are no companies, which means there are no jobs without access roads. The level of investment in today's world is 20%. GDP, and today it's less than 17% And you're planning next year that it's going to be 16%. Then why do you usually turn off investments when you're not investing anyway, and they say they're finally gonna come with a 1.5-year delay in KPO money? In the explanatory memorandum they wrote: The proposed regulations will not affect the entire socio-economic life in Poland. It's a lie. You're already lying in the papers. By converting the inflation target into inflation into this expenditure rule, Poles will struggle with higher prices and in addition, inflation will stay with us for longer. And the discussion between the Civic Coalition and the PiS about the money of Poles, about inflation and cost-effective is a discussion between people responsible and concerned about the real welfare of Poles and the long-term (Dawn) development of our homeland and between populists who want to stay in power at all costs. Your marshal, 30 seconds. And don't talk about arms, because we passed the Homeland Defense Act with you, but to make sure there's money for someone to lend us for these abrams and patriots, the government has to be responsible. This is the basis for the security of all citizens. You're ruining this security, which is why we're making a motion to reject this project in its entirety out of our sense of responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u292	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mrs Anita Sowińska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u293	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Izbo! A stabilising expenditure rule, as the name suggests, is intended to stabilise the state budget. Its aim is that the government should not spend more than enough and not incur huge debts. This is a form of fuse, social control over our money, which is managed by the government of law and justice. PiS wants to take off these fuses and spend our money without even knowing it. And it's not about the defense spending bill at all. It is also not about spending on the necessary energy transformation. This is not about expenditure related to the National Reconstruction Plan, e.g. to finance hospitals, to build apartments for rent, digitization or to fight smog. This bill doesn't apply, and the PiS is just lying, saying it's not. This bill is about the 2023 elections. PiS wants to fund his campaign with our money. This will be the most expensive campaign in Poland's history, which will cost us billions of zlotys. Whether we want it or not, we're all gonna be campaigning for Law and Justice. Kaczyński is the CEO of a company called Law and Justice and does everything to ensure that this company wins a contract to manage our money next year. It is not about the state, it is not about the health of Poles and Poles, it is not about education, efficient transport or cheap, clean energy, it is not about the future of our children. He's not a statesman, he's a primate who's minding the interests of his party, handing out stools and money. Its goal is only to win elections to have more stools and more public money to spend - preferably for shopping without tenders or for friends' foundations, e.g. for national foundations such as Robert Bąkiewicz. The PiS has no competence to manage the state budget responsibly. This is demonstrated by the total chaos caused by the Polish order. This is shown by an inefficient anti-inflationary policy that only adds fuel to the fire. This is demonstrated by the cost of handling public debt, which currently amounts to PLN 30 billion per year and is constantly increasing. The fiscal policy of the Government of Law and Justice is the politics of the soul, hell is not. I want to stress very strongly that this is not about not spending money. You have to spend it, but you have to do it wisely. Anyone who manages the house budget knows that they can spend money in a bad and good way. You can spend all your income on clothes, alcohol and expensive travel. You can even get in debt, run a scooter's life, and become bankrupt. You can also spend a responsible surplus of money, e.g. for investments in heating the building, buying an energy-efficient refrigerator or for education of children. This is an expense and this is an expense, and yet the difference is significant, because smart spending money brings savings and profits in the future. Unfortunately, the PiS doesn't do that. The consequences of PiS's irresponsible economic policy will be the crisis of the state. Inflation will result in a further deterioration of society. The energy road will result in less competitiveness of the Polish economy in the long term and the withdrawal of companies from Poland to other countries, which is consequently unemployment. Low wages in the budget will result in a shortage of nurses and doctors and a collapse of the health system. Lack of funding for education will result in lower quality of education and in the long term lack of innovation in our economy, etc., etc. But in the PiS, no one cares what's going to happen in the long run. Only their own business is important to them. Fat cats are well in contrast to most Poles and Poles, who are not enough for food and basic expenses. The Left will vote against this irresponsible bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u294	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u295	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition of Poland took part in the honour, although I admit that it is questionable to present a position concerning a government draft law amending the Act on Public Finance and the Act - Environmental Law. Why is it dubious? Minister, because we have been dealing with this in Poland for a few months, we call it this, with such a kind of discrepancy in terms of economic policy, financial policy of the Polish state. On the one hand, today - it is also such a meaningful coincidence - President Glapiński tells all Poles, especially those who took matters into their own hands and, apart from the state, took care of their apartments for themselves, for children and for grandchildren, for houses... And they're picking you up today for tightening your belt. On the other hand, we have the Council of Ministers, the government, parliamentary facilities, who say: nothing is happening, we need to launch further measures, whether it is intentional or not, we need to put out fires, print, borrow. There's no recollection. Unfortunately, with the help of this project, which you are presenting, it is confirmed in a very meaningful and significant way today. And you can't say from today's debate that there are no fiscal, economic considerations in Poland that differ with regard to the approach to costing, to inflation, to the negative effects that I agree with Mrs Leszczyna today - most Poles feel. The question is whether these are pure intentions or evil intentions related to the next year's elections, and everything points to doubles. According to experts, this change, which will be introduced by law, is an additional 100 billion for the government. The question is, what will the 100 billion Polish government, whose minister is here, do? There are serious concerns that unfortunately it will be available not to make Poles easier, but to have something to do and what to give in the campaign. It is good for the public today to know what the government is going to do with these additional resources generated. Another thing that raises serious doubts is the exclusion of further institutions, serious institutions from the validity or from the inclusion of a stabilisation expenditure rule. This is already very disturbing, because suddenly we are beginning to introduce such a principle of equal and even more equal in terms of having public resources. Half of poverty, if it were, High Izbo, the means of law and justice. Then you can make whatever rules and rules you want, do whatever you want with these measures. But you don't have your party money, because of course this one is guarded carefully by the treasurer, the president, we know that he has a great sensitivity to it. You have the public funds of the Republic of Poland, of all Poles who make up this money and who are loaned by you today for a high percentage of the money will pay back someday, some say that much longer than we paid our debts after sleep. Edward Gierku. It would be good today, Minister, in terms of all these doubts, to explain ourselves to the public. The Parliamentary Club The Coalition of Poland does not see the possibility of supporting the bill, which is sewn up by wicked political acts, and we also apply to reject this project at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u296	Thank you very much. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] In a moment, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee responsible has submitted a report on the urgent government draft law amending the Public Documents Act, print No 2375. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The position of the Confederate parliamentary club will be presented by Michał Urbaniak. Come on in, sir, to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Finance again wants major changes in Poland's public finances, specifically we know that in the expenditure rule, which is used to calculate the limit of state expenditure, and we already have such a principle, we should have such a principle that, as the government that rules us here today is taking on changes related to the state budget, Poles should be afraid for their wallets, because it will be the addition of gasoline to the fire again. That's not how you do things like this. Reducing state expenditure at a time of crisis - this should be the direction to lower inflation, because this rule is based today on an inflation target, and one of the most important factors in calculating these expenditure rules is GDP and inflation. Now the government will unscrew what it introduced in 2015, because then this inflationary target of 2.5% it has been introduced, and now we are back to the assumptions from before this period, which means you are denying yourself, because I remind you that inflation today is up to 14%. You know very well that your harmful actions have led at least partially to this inflation. There are many factors that affect this price. You have an influence on a part, and it's important that you also have an influence on the golden one, for example. do not weaken. This is such a way to nowhere, because instead of changing financial policy towards savings, tax cuts, reduction of oversized administration, reduction of public money redistribution in the future, you are going to continue to indebt to Poles, because the government needs money to add money to new decoders or televisions to effectively practice their propaganda. Those are the facts. And the second change, which also happens here, is to exclude new investment expenditure from the current expenditure rule. According to economists themselves from the Ministry of Finance, this will mean about 3, 4 percentage points of GDP. This is a drastic increase in expenditure for the Republic of Poland, if this is the case. I feel that your government is very, very fond of Poles' money, and this is the policy that is bad from its foundations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u298	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will present the position of the Poles 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u299	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the governmental draft law on amending the Act on Public Finance and the Act - Environmental Law. Ladies and gentlemen! The change that the government wants to make is, among other things. to replace in the formula stabilising the expenditure principle inflation rate with the inflation target forecast inflation rate, as well as excluding part of other expenditure from the expenditure limit. Today, inflation and expensive prices are destroying citizens' wallets. People are worried about how to survive to the first one, and for a while, send the kids on vacation, pay for the electricity, for the heating. What's the government doing in the meantime? The government is taking care of itself and maintaining power. What's really going on with this bill? Well, there's no money left in the budget. If this power doesn't change this stabilizing spending rule, all the wavings will come out, there will be a collapse in public finances, and propaganda will be over. They know this very well, therefore they have written a bill aimed at releasing further state-debted fuses. The adoption of this law, of course, will hit the weakest, because inflation and the financial crisis hit this group the most. This bill will also hit young people. There are young people in the room who need to hear this. In 6 years, the PiS government imposed PLN 500 billion in debt on young people's shoulders. They won't pay it back until they die. [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Our children and our grandchildren will pay.]] The real debt is much bigger than the government shows. The difference in Polish and EU statistics amounted to almost PLN 262 billion at the end of last year, ladies and gentlemen. Poland 2050 believes that the weakest should be protected in times of high inflation. Unfortunately, the last 6 years of the PiS government are a time of swimming party nominates in luxury, which symbolizes the several times increase in spending on the Prime Minister's firm. Nowhere in the world, including all democratic states, has an example of such shoes and arrogance of power. Poland 2050 thinks about human problems and shows good solutions. Today, I appeal to the government: instead of making bad projects that hit people, support our good solutions. This will really change Poland for the better. Our solutions, solutions of Poland 2050 will really help people. Ladies and gentlemen! This law must be rejected. This bill is good for basketball. On behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050, I have the honour to submit to your marshal a motion to reject this bad bill. At the same time, I make two amendments. If we fail to reject this project, they will at least (the bell) at least fix this project in such a way that it does not hit people as much as it strikes in this form, in the sound in which it is presented now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u300	Thank you, sir. I would like to welcome the children's regional group Góralski Nutki from Pewla Wielki, the municipality of Jelenia, which is at the gallery. Beautiful outfits. Welcome. [[Applause]] [[Let them sing us a song.]] Oh, no, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question will be asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's very nice to see you at the gallery. I didn't expect such guests. The main objective of the project is to change the stabilizing expenditure regime aimed at reducing the pace of budget expenditure growth. The problem is that the government, in the case of public finances, says otherwise and does otherwise. [[Applause]] An example is the previous item on the agenda, where money from the state budget was proposed to fund the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture. Already, our country's debt outside Parliament's control amounts to nearly 300 billion, amounting to 350 billion by the end of this year, i.e. about 1/5 of the public debt calculated in accordance with the EU methodology. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Instead of reducing the pace of expenditure growth from the state budget, you increase the deficit and debt, which means more cost for Poles. When are you finally going to present a fair and comprehensive, not an apparent, program to repair your ruined public finances? Thank you. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Never.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u302	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u303	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll also begin by greeting the honored guests of Żywiecczyn. Maybe we'll get a chance to meet in person sometime. There's an important debate going on right now. I think it's about your future, so it's a good thing you have a chance to hear it. I would like to ask the Minister what the real costs of adopting this law will be, because this obviously means putting another debt on the shoulders of young generations, children, young people, those who are just learning, who are just going to work and are already burdened with this debt, your debt, which you are now dragging and which they will have to pay. Minister! What increase in debt will result in the adoption of this project? What's the amount? How much more will the government be able to spend because this project will be adopted? You've been avoiding answers the whole time. Is it true that this can reach up to PLN 100 billion? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u304	Thank you. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The explanatory memorandum of the Act states: at present, due to unprecedented global shocks and, as a result, persistent high price dynamics, significant differences have arisen between these indicators, which may not be short-term despite the projected fall in inflation. For this reason, the amount of expenditure resulting from the application of the current SRW formula would lead to a budgetary surplus and a general government surplus already in 2023. Minister! Please state in writing what the costs of implementing this law will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u306	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government wants to organise an eldorado in an election year where it will not have to deal with any financial constraints. Prime Minister! Instead of pushing the possibility of further debt of Poland and Poles and building Poland for future generations in which our children and grandchildren will grow without any prospects for the future, or instead of harming future generations of Poles, would it not be easier to solve the problem of Mr Zbigniew Ziobra? In 2021, outside the budgetary rules, the government spent, attention, 50 billion PLN. The government has not yet accounted for the amount of PLN 50 billion spent, and there was no answer to yesterday's questions in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Anyone who will vote in favour of this law will vote against Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u308	Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. There isn't. I understand. Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Whenever we talk about public finances, someone always calls Edward Gierek and 40 billion debts. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: I do not.]] I propose not to offend Edward Gierek anymore, because for 40 billion dollars he has greatly modernised the Polish economy and Polish infrastructure, as soon as possible in 10 years, faster than anyone including us. In the context of what is happening today, I cannot be surprised that the government is deliberately getting into the responsibility and debt of Poland as it serves itself. As for the fact that the PiS could sink into this election next year, I have no doubt, because you're gonna drive inflation so hard that she's gonna kill you -- the Poles and you. I am worried about Poles because this inflation will be so fast that neither raises nor any other benefits will keep up with it. The crossroads will destroy everything, but most of all I fear for the Polish people, so come to your senses, because this law opens a very dangerous path to increasing public debt. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u310	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u311	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! This bill should be called "winding the debt spiral," because the state is trying to draw more money with tricks, changes, deregulation of the spending rule. You don't have... Over the years, during this time, for at least six months we have been asking about a serious strategy to fight inflation, so that the Poles who make money can spend, but without fear that each week will be more expensive. I'm asking you when you're going to present your strategy for combating inflation. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Never.]] When will you take a responsible position to show what inflation will be like? Because all you're saying is that you're trying to charm. You're charming that inflation is 3.3% this year, and it's definitely different. There's data from the ceiling next year, too. So once again, we ask: When will you submit your strategy for combating inflation? When will the Pole finally be able to say: I made money, I hold it or when I spend it, they have a certain value? Because today even solutions to 13, 14 retirement pensions for pensioners who have the lowest salary make them have to pay $1,000 to do so. Evil, maybe even more. So many of you are sitting there, so many of you are in individual resorts - prepare a solid strategy to fight inflation, and you are not trying, here you will solve, here 100 billion, here outside the budget. We look forward to a serious strategy. When will she be? I'd like a written reply. Last thing: if it's so good and if you're computerized (the bell), why don't you give the VAT back to the entrepreneurs who did it electronically? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u312	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! How is a stabilizing spending rule supposed to work, how is it supposed to stabilize public finances if you guys keep changing it? That's not enough, you say you're adjusting the rule to the current conditions instead of adjusting to the rule. In 2015, you considered that forecast inflation distorted the rule and changed the forecast to an inflation target. Today you're going to reverse it. In 2015, you increased your spending by at least PLN 30 billion thanks to this move. There are few consequences of this 2015 change in the pulled-up formula and today it is over 100 billion - another inflationary boost. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is how much lower inflation would be today if you really complied with the 2013 rule. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u314	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! President Costowniak wouldn't let me explain one thing to the committee, so I'm gonna do it now. Well, Minister Patkowski accused the Civic Platform that he had introduced a stabilizing spending rule at the end of his reign. I understand that the Minister was not yet interested in public finances at the time, so he does not know that the stabilising expenditure rule is the implementation of the EU directive. This directive was created after the crisis in the euro area and Poland was one of the first countries to implement it. We had no delay, and our spending rule has become a model for other countries. I regret to say that in the state in which he is today, unfortunately, he is no longer a model for anyone. Once again, I ask the Minister to reply in writing to perhaps six or eight questions that I formulated during the meeting of the finance committee, because these are key questions. I'll say it again. The introduction of this law is to leave (the bell) Poles alone with a cost for many years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u316	Thank you, Member. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Another change in the stabilizing expenditure rule. This revision of the formula stabilizing the expenditure rule by replacing the inflation target of the Monetary Policy Council with the average annual price index of consumer goods and services will create a new fiscal space to increase budget expenditure. This is what we read in the explanatory memorandum. I want to ask you about this new fiscal space. What is fiscal space? What will be the consequences for the state budget, for the economy and consequently for Poles? How much more expenses are going to increase because of this? What will inflation be due to this expenditure rule, which I will remind you, is the highest in the EU countries? [[The bell, the applause.]] At the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, these key questions were not answered. Maybe it'll work here in the parliament hall. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u318	Thank you. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The monetary policy pursued by President Glapiński, which I no longer want to bully, and the government's budgetary policies are increasingly spreading. This bill is also an example of this. We might find out if it's another 100 billion, because that's how it's estimated, or more than 100 billion to increase government spending when base inflation was 8,5%. in May and in April it was 7.7%. This is a very dangerous phenomenon. Public debt - 1.4 trillion, including 260 hidden. These are the differences between EU and national standards. We're gonna keep going in that direction. He's knocking on our country a terrible stagflation, and in this situation we have as a gift... PiS, because it is obvious, for the election (the bell) spent another 100 billion to maintain power and not even children, but our grandchildren will have to pay for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u320	Thank you, sir. No questions asked. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u321	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If the PiS is talking about public finances, and especially about their repair, then I have very serious concerns, because the PiS was talking about the fact that inflation will not be, and we have inflation extremely high, record. PiS said it wouldn't be expensive, and it's the most expensive in decades. PiS said he would not raise loan instalments, and today we have the highest loan instalments across the European Union. [[PiS is lying.]] PiS said there'd be more investment, and we've had the least investment in 27 years. PiS said he was going to extend the country, and he owed it twice as much. PiS said there were already European funds a year ago, we saw billboards. There are no funds to this day. Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke beautiful English American dream about New Deal. Everyone's ashamed of New Deal today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's your policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u322	Thank you, sir. No questions asked. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u323	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A ton of coal for $3,000. zł. Prices of natural gas - the highest in history. Electricity - we are expected to raise by a few dozen percent. If we want to fight inflation, we must fight the green EU inflation, because it is the European Union that brings Polish families to poverty today. Euro MPs of the Civic Platform in the European Parliament vote in favour of the Fit for package 55. It is MEPs who defend the climate package and the tax imposed on Polish energy and heat, which causes Poland to be robbed of 20 billion PLN this year. And from this place, instead of defending the Polish government against this EU cost, the Polish government is attacking. Make up your mind. If you want to fight for Polish interests, instead of writing 38 more resolutions against Poland, start fighting the EU's cost. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u324	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. At the same time, I would like to remind you that we are in the middle of a part: questions. There's no envoy? Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u325	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, this law should be called the Flood after us. Or another name that we can propose is that it is the election fund of Law and Justice from the state budget, from the budget of actually all Poles. Because not only are we gonna pay for this, but in the future they're gonna pay our kids for this, for this kind of debt. The state budget should be a model for domestic, local budgets, and it is the opposite, because we show how we waste all Poles' brazen money. There is no reflection on the direction in which the Polish state is going, and with the money of voters we will pay for cartons, for a round trip across the country. My question is: Is there even an alternative to this law? Did you ever think that maybe this bill wouldn't pass, and where would you find the missing billions to fill all the holes you've done in the finances of the Poles (The Bell) in our country's finances? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u326	Thank you. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u327	It is right that Mrs Leszczyna pointed out that the government of PiS had a horrendous debt to Poland and that the debt service itself was PLN 100 billion. For example, the proposal is clear and correct: the PiS government needs to be changed. However, I would like to remind you that under the Civic Platform, only in the period 2007-2013 alone, public debt rose from 520 billion to 770 billion, which is almost twice. He was 58% GDP. If it were not for the plundering of PLN 150 billion collected by Poles at OFE, it would exceed 60% and the Prime Minister of the Civic Platform would face the Court of State for breaking the Constitution. [[That's the truth.]] I hope that from this conclusion to Mrs Leszczyna it is also clear and correct: that the PiS Government needs to be changed, but not to the Government of the Civic Coalition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u328	Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u329	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! What a disease, such a cure. Extraordinary times, exceptional times, hitting a few misfortunes at once - it requires extraordinarily recipes. And what we're proposing right now is the solution. It's not an invention or a patent from this coalition or this government, it's a solution... I ask that the Minister explain, as he did this morning at the committee meeting, to open his eyes to us, that this solution is widely used, on a large scale, to a wider extent. than it is now. And the argument - here I speak beautifully to our colleagues... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Yes, they steal everywhere.]] Yes, sir. The dispute is simple, ladies and gentlemen, between liberals who live in different places and representatives of the social direction. That's the truth. You can't get out of inflation without pain. The problem is that in order to put out inflation, you have to limit money, but to support and protect the weakest, and that's our motto, you need money. It can't be solved painlessly. It will be a long fight, a constant fight, and we will win this fight, but with a human face and not following the fatal (The Bell) legacy of history. Unfortunately, what the liberal camp was doing led to this. And that's what you can find out.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u330	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u331	Don't believe the politicians, check the computer, but not who said...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u332	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u333	...only who did what. Then I'll be calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u334	Thank you, sir. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u335	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, his oath was made by a hawk, as he describes himself, but above all, a hawk of Polish inflation and expensive. This was also met with great enthusiasm from the government's representatives. The key question today is: What's to be happy about here? Because these reasons for joy Poles have absolutely less and less. Galloping inflation is, after all, a widespread and increasingly severe problem. People have less and less money, they have to save often even on basic products, on food. The interest rates are rising. Young people today view living as luxurious, and it is not known if they will ever reach it. On the other hand, I will not mention those who have to pay their loan instalments. Today, the basic question people ask is: How to live and of what? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are they supposed to live for? Maybe it's time we finally heard the answers to those questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u336	Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS government will put gasoline in the fire with this project. 2021 - inflation 8.6%, 2022 - inflation 14%. The highest mortgage rate in Europe is 6.5%. Poles wonder why they will warm houses in winter. They give up their vacations to meet the cost. You want to exclude, as a rule, expenditure in 2023, from the expenditure limit of investments, using the so-called. the investment clause. The bill does not indicate what will be an investment and what will not, what will be eligible for exclusion and what will not. Whose decision will it be? Premiere? Minister of Finance? What are the investments? Infrastructure investments, human resources, others? I'm afraid these decisions will be made arbitraryly, according to your own criteria, because you've already done it. The Minister of Sport personally added 100 points or deducted 100 points so that the municipality could obtain an infrastructure investment. What do you need to loosen up your finances for? To expropriate Poles for 30% of their assets? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You feel that the edorado you've created and you're still creating is over. The Poles have had enough. They've had enough galloping inflation, paying danin, paying the fees you've been charging for seven years.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u338	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u339	Or maybe you want and you need money...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u340	Thank you, Commissioner, but this is not a point: club speeches.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u341	...to try to buy the votes of the Poles?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u342	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u343	God bless you! Save yourself, who can. Another law from the cycle: creative accounting in a country ruled by the United Law. But this is where the pot came from. The left-hand side brings the left-hand side to the right, which you all then agree to, by implementing, adjusting, but creatively. I have a question for the Minister. Give it to me on a piece of paper, in writing, all those exemptions from this rule. Because, of course, the rules are to be creatively broken, as the honourable fellow Member has said, and that is what you are aiming for. You're shutting down, which means you're pumping through the National Farms Bank, COVID's exceptions to the rule, Ukrainian exceptions to the rule. I mean, whose fault is it? Putina. So now any inflation (the bell) can be explained in this way. Count me how much this budget is outside of the budget, and maybe just a little bit more about who you're doing the right thing to, so that it doesn't happen in the parliamentary debate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u344	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance of Minister Piotr Patkowski for an answer, and Mr Braun - on a postcard in a square. [[There are some cards left in the school notebooks for the Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u345	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! They weren't from school notebooks, sir, that was a long time ago. And I don't collect old documents, I don't have that habit. Besides, we have 24 hours of digitalization and everything is going on, as you certainly know perfectly well, electronically, not analogly. So it's worth going in this direction. At first, a few lines. As far as exemptions are concerned, I think that you know that we have been integrating expenditure in the fiscal rule for the last two years. Last year it was state-owned special-purpose funds this year. it is the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, so-called. NFOŚiGW. So we are supplementing this law, as well as last year's spending also through targeted funds and other institutions. But what is the purpose of this rule? Because it's worth recalling at this point in time, the High House. Fiscal rule makes sense when the economy is in a normal economic cycle, i.e. economic cycles and deconstructive cycles are coming. We haven't been able to talk about the normal cycle of deconuncture for 3 years, because we first had unexpected issues related to the COVID pandemic and then issues related to the war in Ukraine. Perhaps there is someone in the world who is able to create an algorithm that takes into account the biological factor of the virus, and a war factor - several hundred really kilometers, and given that bombs also fall in Lviv, several dozen kilometers from Poland's borders. But I don't think there's anyone who can create an algorithm like that. So please do not take this as a criticism of the rule, because the rule is a good solution for a normal economic cycle, and we do not have this economic cycle. What would apply the current rule in 2023? It would lead to a mandatory, very strong increase in public spending, a reduction in expenditure and consequently to a surplus of both the central budget and the local government budget. Perhaps this is the fulfillment of the Civic Platform's dream (Applause) which, just a few weeks ago, Mrs Leszczyna spoke about a 500+ reduction. [[She didn't say.]] Or perhaps it is a weakening of Poland and putting it at risk from Russia. Is it real? We see what's happening in Ukraine. And as the President, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, said yesterday, with a choice of occupation or a higher deficit and debt, I think we are choosing a higher deficit. [[Not all of them.]] Perhaps there is an option in this room that likes Putin's actions and the Russian option, but it is certainly not the Law and Justice and the United Right. We will never allow Poland to be exposed to aggression and attack by any neighbour. [[Applause]] And that's what this rule is for. It is very important that the rule this year provides for the possibility of spending at 39% GDP. This is one of the lower levels in the European Union. If we look at most Western countries, so-called. The old Union, it is their expenditure on GDP that is pointless, of course at percentage points of GDP, much higher. What would the rule lead to? The rule would drastically reduce these expenditures in relation to GDP to 34%, while the current amendment aims to keep these expenditures in relation to GDP to the level of 2022, i.e. 39% GDP. That's the goal of the rule. He's not trying to create any kind of fiscal space. The aim is to maintain the possibility of relation of expenditure to GDP at current or similar levels, but also to enable you to respond to the challenges of Putin's actions and their effects in inflation, but also to enable Poland to be armed and prepare for difficult times. It is also very important that this rule does not exclude the Maastricht criteria in any way, i.e. 3% deficit and 60% public debt. These rules in the current situation in Poland, which has become a real market sensitive because of the theatre of war activities, we continue to apply and we will do a great deal to keep this space at a similar level, although I also do not hide that in 2022 and 2023 it will be difficult, but as has been shown in 2021, when we had the sixth lowest deficit in the European Union... Once again, it is a deficit which also includes expenditure of the COVID, PFR and any other institution - so this too? Speaking of this alleged release of any amount of money on the market. However, a country that has the sixth lowest deficit does not seem to behave that way. The same is true of the allegations concerning the lack of consolidation of public finances. If we look at GG's deficits from 2015 to 2020, they have had a downward trend, except for one year when they have grown from a deficit of 0.2% to 0.7%. which was a record low deficit rate in the European Union. This is a huge difference compared to the record deficits of the Civic Platform - 7.3%, 7.4%. Mrs Leszczyna, who always likes to refer rudely to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, said that we do not know where it came from. Of course we know where it came from. It just came out of the VAT gap that the Civic Platform government was very solidly raising. for eight years of his reign. He found no way to limit this, but he found a way to raise VAT by 1 percentage point to Poles. [[Applause]] In the same way, the Civic Platform government had a record debt of 56.5%. Yes, you have reduced it by taking the money of Poles from OFE to the state budget. Yeah, you guys did it. [[Nice flowers.]] We This debt in the EU's relationship was also reduced by 2020, but this was not the practice of taking savings from Poles. I think it's worth taking, too. The answer to Mr Cymanski's question about other countries. Of course, Poland is very much listening to voices, whether it's credit rating agencies or also The European Commission. This is very important to us because we are actually operating in a very solid ecosystem of financial institutions and it is not irrelevant for us. But if we look at countries that have a significantly higher deficit level, a much higher level of public debt, like France, Belgium, Spain, Italy, this argument no longer speaks to you. I understand that we have jumped to a higher level than the French, it is a very big compliment for us, but as I understand it, the opposition is very fond of always following the Germans, which are such an ideal determinant. I would like to remind you at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance that in Germany in 2020 there were 26 special-purpose funds excluded from the fiscal rules. They were until recently limited so-called. a constitutional debt brake. In June this year. The Bundestag decided to set up a special-purpose fund to cover the cost of modernising the army of EUR 100 billion. [[Well, well, well. What do you say?]] And now note: It is not only that such a fund was created, that it is excluded from the fiscal rules, but thanks to the amendment of the constitution which was supported, the expenditure of the fund was also excluded from the debt limits. And something very important that I would like to end my answers to these questions and what I would like to dedicate to this House: What majority have these changes been made? 567 votes in favour, 96 votes against. This took place on June 6, 2022. So the Germans can still... [[Love your country.]] ...in difficult situations to love the country and prepare it for difficult times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u346	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed... [[And the strategy?]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Unless you are Mrs Leszczyna. Thank you, really. [[But the Minister didn't answer the strategy.]] You weren't mentioned. I don't see the basics... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please state the grounds in the Rules of Procedure for Expression. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm finishing the discussion. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that in time... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Member, please sit down. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, a motion for rejection and amendments were submitted to the draft law, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[There's no answer to any questions.]] Member, is this your first time in the Sejm? The Minister answered, as he thought appropriate, those questions which he thought made sense. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission on the urgent government draft law amending the Public Documents Act (Prints Nos 2364 and 2375). I kindly ask Mr Wiesław Szczepański to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I have the honour to present the Commission's position on the Act amending the Act on Public Documents, in print Nos 2364 and 2375. Indeed, we are proceeding at an express rate, because this project was sent to the marshal's staff yesterday in late evening hours, the printing received the number in the evening hours, today at hours. 14 took place the first reading of this project, and after 3 hours we are already debating at second reading so that this project can be adopted tomorrow. In line with the proposal made by the Government on the provision that was justified today at the committee's meeting, the draft amendment to the Law of 22 November 2018 on public documents aims to exclude from the act judicial and notarial documents such as enforcement titles issued by courts or referees, copies of final judgments, copies of court orders and court references on the granting of a declaration of enforceability to enforcement titles, extracts, copies and extracts of documents covering notarial acts. The envisaged prospect of the electronicisation of trade in judicial and notarial documents and the possibility to verify them, as well as the existing safeguards, make us aware that the extent of possible irregularities in the use of these documents is not adequate for the implementation of solutions with such far-reaching consequences, including economic consequences. The proposal also provides for an amendment to the Act on the extension of transitional periods for the validity of public documents of categories 1 and 2 i.e. the sailing book and the documents referred to in the Law of 21 May 1999 on arms and ammunition. The proposed amendment implies an extension of the issue of the sailing book until 30 June 2024 and by 1 October 2024 the issuing of the documents set out in the Act on Arms and Ammunition. The change is due to the fact that the process of drawing up a model public document requires the involvement of many actors, i.e. issuers, entities designing and producing public documents and security prints. This project, as I said, went to the committee yesterday. The Minister pointed out the need for its urgent adoption. The Legislative Office, which discussed this proposal today, has identified many amendments, which were mainly legislative and editorial. They have been taken into account. The amendment, which has also been adopted, is an amendment which states that the law should enter into force on the day following its adoption, which requires the urgent need to proceed with changes relating to the extension of the transitional periods of validity of the categories 1 and 2 public documents indicated which should enter into force before 12 July 2022. During the vote on the report and the draft law, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, by 27 votes in favour, with one abstention, gave a positive opinion, approved the proposal and asked the High House to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u348	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u349	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the club Law and Justice to present a position on the Act amending the Act on Public Documents, print no.2364. The intention of amending the law is, firstly, to exempt judicial and notarial documents from the act and, secondly, to extend the validity of certain public documents, among others. This is mainly about the sailing book and the documents set out in the Arms and Ammunition Act. In this case, the deadline for issuing the sailing book is extended until 30 June 2024 and the deadline for issuing the documents set out in the Arms and Ammunition Act is extended until 1 October 2024. If we are talking about the exclusion of judicial and notarial documents from the Act, this is due to practical considerations and at the same time to the prospect of electronicising the trading of judicial and notarial documents. The existing safeguards give rise to the conclusion that the extent of irregularities in the use of these documents is not adequate for the implementation of solutions with such far-reaching consequences, including economic consequences. That's what practice speaks for. The Law and Justice Club is in favour of making changes to the above mentioned. the law, in favour of its amendment and in favour of the rapid procedure resulting from the urgent need to amend it as a result of the extension of the transitional periods of validity of the specified types of public documents of category 1 and 2 which should enter into force before 12 July this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u350	Thank you, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mr Mateusz Bochenek.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u351	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I do not hide the fact that I take my duties of fulfilling my mandate and making good law very seriously, as many parliamentarians do. Unfortunately, once again, I must point out one thing: the state at the last minute, as a matter of urgency, or even with the use of parliamentary draft laws, you are introducing provisions to the Sejm. This is unacceptable to me. In this mode, the Sejm should absolutely not work. This is the first, very serious remark. I hope that it will finally be accepted by you and that these things will change, because in such a way it is simply impossible to work and function normally. In the case of this law, you had enough time to submit amendments to the Sejm, if you wish to make such changes. I would like to remind you that this law was passed already in 2018 and that the regulations, some of them, were to enter into force last year. COVID caused this time to be extended by a year. And today, under the pressure of time, you want the Sejm or, basically, the Senate to pass this bill before July 12th, which is really very inappropriate. The state refers to several aspects in these provisions. Anyway, which is worth emphasising, you want to make changes to what you made four years ago in this bill. You have argued that these are important revolutionary changes that should come into force because they will secure basic issues about citizens' safety, and after 4 years the narrative changed. Now you convince the other way, you say that some of the rules are unnecessary and, moreover, disproportionate to the actual scale of the irregularity. Therefore, I would ask for information on the scale of the irregularities we have faced over the years, and above all who has decided to introduce these provisions into this law, who invented them, since today, on the eve of their entry into force, you want to withdraw from them. In addition, you stress that the introduction of these rules means that the time and work required to give the citizen a copy of the simplest ruling will increase the costs of the judicial system and may delay the work of the courts. Ladies and gentlemen, you're the ones who introduced this legislation. That's one thing. Another case concerns the costs which have already been incurred for the implementation of this law. If these regulations are to enter into force any day now, you must be prepared for this. I would ask for information on what actions have been taken and what funds have been spent on the state budget. And the last case, including the Public Documents Act. I would like to know how the article is implemented. 58 on the marketing of replicas of documents. This is absolutely very important. What's the situation today? How many criminal proceedings have been conducted? To what extent has the turnover been reduced? You emphasized that this law is to be revolutionary, to guarantee security, so I would like to know how it worked in practice. Today, we can still find offers for the sale of such replicas by typing this into a search engine, which is why I would also ask you to refer to this issue, although I will admit that the Ministry of Justice is the leading resort for this law, and you are with us the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. I do not know if he will be able to answer this question, but I would very much ask for information on the practical application of the provisions of this law, but in a special way why this law has been brought under the Sejm's deliberations and why you have not used this last year to process it earlier. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u352	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u353	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Print number 2364. The draft law on amending the Public Documents Act was entered on the agenda yesterday, without the printing number, because this printing was simply not there. We received the printing only in late nights, but it is hardly surprising, because the work on this document, as it turned out at today's committee meeting, started the Ministry of Justice. And the Ministry of Justice has been monopolized by Solidarna Polska and has been dedicated for several dozen months to one leading topic. Namely, this topic is disgusting the electorate of the United Rights of the EU institutions and destroying the good name of our country all over the world. No one other than Minister Ziobro blocked Poland's access to EU funds, while creating dozens of documents that never had the right to be created in a democratic and law-abiding country. In the last 2 years, officials of Solidarna Polski, who form the backbone of the Ministry of Justice, have devoted thousands of hours to destroying the image of Poland not only among the closest neighbours, but even in distant countries. Unfortunately, the unwarranted, joyful, unfettered work of the officials of this ministry has led them to stop dealing with matters for which they are actually remunerated. And as a result, they worked 18 months on the document I'm holding. In the meantime, they have not yet read the National Reconstruction Plan and are blackmailing the Prime Minister today. This bill, which I am talking about, has been haunted in the Ministry for 18 months and has finally been granted the status of an urgent act for approval by the Sejm. But she's also had one story. Namely, it was transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Administration and Internal Affairs. What have the ministerial officials been able to come up with and write down in this project? They invented and wrote that for each Pole it is important that the documents issued to them are properly secured and difficult to forge. If not for this initiative in this respect, each Pole would be 100% Convinced that it's a good thing that the documents he has can forge any photocopier point. [[Applause]] A big round of applause for building such enlightened conclusions about this bill. In this connection, I have these questions: When do you expect to be checked at the Ministry, what do officials do, who simply charge money for it? When will the consequences be drawn towards the minister managing the institution for delaying and wasting the Ministry's resources in dealing with matters not involving the ministry's tasks? We have learned from the recent fight for the cancellation of the Minister that he is a crystal man and that Poland has never had such an excellent, dedicated and competent minister. Why this image, e.g. Isn't he the image we should be imitating when we're working on this bill? That question will be answered by all the colleagues who raised their hand in defending the Minister. In the meantime, Members of the Ministry have been advised to take urgent action to work on the bill, which is why such questions arise among us. Firstly, what my predecessor was talking about - some of the rules that were made some years ago are unnecessary, and why were they not eliminated on the way? Secondly, what would have happened if Poland had not adopted this act in print as urgent within a dozen days by July 12? - which is already a huge anachronism, because we've learned that we'd probably have to eliminate 4,000. Sailing books. Then, when we were eliminating the huge resources of the ballots, no one was crying about it, and today we are going to cry about the 4,000 issue. Sailing books. Although if we can save them, let's save them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u354	Mr Marek Biernacki on behalf of the Coalition Poland Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u355	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives I wanted to present a position on the report of the committee on the urgent draft law amending the law on public documents, print No 2364. Urgent, urgent project. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs has recently been sitting in an extraordinary manner. Sometimes the projects came to us practically overnight. But these were projects that concerned the aggression or consequences of Russia's aggression against Ukraine. For everyone, it was understandable that they were extraordinary projects in an extremely complicated situation that was difficult to predict. And the commission was working on them consistently and honestly. But please note that what was an exception is beginning to become a rule, and this is a tragedy. I take advantage of the fact that the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs is working effectively, so now we also receive projects of this type that should be submitted much faster and should be worked in depth. Especially since the government amendment actually excludes from the legal regime imposed on courts and notaries by the law of 2018 on legal documents the obligation to draw up public documents on blanks with established security features hindering counterfeiting, and this obligation was to function since January 2022. Interestingly, this system is to be replaced by an electronic system. So why hasn't this information system been put in place since the beginning of the ICT system, just a system to prevent counterfeiting? Is this electronics system... Are we so protected from hacker attacks that we can protect citizens from counterfeiting? Isn't there going to be a new wave of forgeries? What's with the preparations? That's what we asked at the committee meeting. After all these years, the Ministry had to prepare for such an important trial. So what happened? Were the funds spent? What were the plans? Suddenly, six months before it turns out that the system that the Ministry was supposed to prepare is not functioning. That's how you take it. Is this because of a new, good, bright idea, or because of the translation into the IT, ICT sphere, or is it really just that the ministry did not manage to prepare for these very profound changes for some reason? Everyone here in this room knows that systems, tenders... The implementation of the system we are talking about, the introduction of such safeguards against counterfeiting, the introduction of such documents requires a lot of investment. It's about courts and notaries. It is a matter of securing real estate, storing documents. We have a number of doubts about this. Of course we'll support this project. It's hard to freeze your ears just to make the citizens worse, but these doubts are. We will not resolve these doubts until January. Then we'll know what it looks like, whether the bleak predictions of my predecessors will work out, or whether it's an innovative solution. What I'm saying is that Law and Justice have been chasing a whole bunch of officials from the previous ruling crew very hard just because they haven't done the little things that should have been done. I hope that here, too, it will be consistent that responsibility will be taken out, at least official responsibility, and maybe as a result criminal, for this mess. The State has certainly incurred certain costs for this reason. Thank you. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: It is Putin who is guilty, not officials.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u356	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, on behalf of the Confederate Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u357	Mrs. Marshal! Before I begin, I would just like to determine what the police are doing in the Chamber of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u358	Mr President, please state your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u359	Inspector! I understand you're here with some kind of intervention because you're wearing a work uniform. These are government benches, and there's always someone here worth taking out, so you can do it. If you're not interventional, you're wearing some sort of gala outfit, you're entitled to some sort of dress. This is the Sejm. The Republic of Poland. Don't you have anyone to delegate? You don't, because you serve the Ukrainian people, carry the swords for large rezunów, and therefore you fail to load the wheelbarrows. You're entering with a new project less than four years after you were investigating the previous project that was adopted. Turns out he was pretty tall. Turns out you shot it, it's not ready. Now, as I understand it, day by day - also due to problems with documents of people who move as a result of the war in Ukraine - it needs to be patched up somehow. It's latanin. What guarantees do we have that those who fired in 2018 - the system is not ready - that people from the same formation who are present with the statutory patch, have made a good thing and will not need to fix it next week, quarter, year? Of course, critical remarks have already been made from this tribune about the process, which is difficult to call otherwise than statutory diarrhea. It's a diarrhea, because you have to run between committee meetings and the pleural room because you want it all to be tomorrow. Let me remind you, Marshal, when you put up the schedule for this meeting last night, this print hasn't even had a number yet, it hasn't been in the system yet. So you couldn't even sleep, so to speak, with this bill, to get an opinion on it. All of this is ridiculous and horrible, because it is about state security, because this law refers to documents that concern, for example, the carriage and carrying of weapons. You ridicule yourselves and ridicule yourselves as such. I hope we get through all this. I'm gonna have another question for this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u360	Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050. Please state your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u361	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Director! I didn't think a lot of things would surprise me in the Seym, but I was wrong. Although I could say that the proposed amendment to the Public Documents Act would abolish the obligation imposed on courts and notaries to draw up public documents on blanks with a set formula, that the abolition of the obligation to draw up almost all judgments given by courts would avoid the organisational burden of the judicial secretariats, that the amendment would result in the lack of specific security requirements for the storage of court and notarial blanks, and thus the absence of an obligation to ensure adequate conditions in the premises in which documents are stored, secure windows, access only for authorised persons, registration of access to rooms, etc., but this does not justify urgency, urgency. Yesterday, as we have heard, the agenda of the meeting included a press debate that has not yet entered the Sejm. It became available late in the evening. Today it has already been discussed at the committee meeting and we are currently debating it in the plenary room. This is justified by the urgency of adopting a project on which the work has supposedly started in the Ub. a proposal to amend a law that was passed less than four years ago? The work was started at the Ministry of Justice, and today the project is being submitted by another resort. The project, which still a few weeks ago seemed light, easy and pleasant, turns into complicated, because suddenly attention came from other resorts, even from the Ministry of Infrastructure. And we're rushing not even like pendolino, but like TGV, because on July 12, we're passing deadlines, because there's going to be financial losses and there's going to be a question of digitalization. But, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of digitalization came up yesterday afternoon, yesterday evening, and no one has remembered the passing dates for so many months. That's what makes this project run into the ICU and need to be resuscitated. That's a denial of seismicism. Minister, Marshal, we all feel uncomfortable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u362	Thank you, sir. Let's move on to asking questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u363	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Ministry. These are issues relating to registration documents. Well, today information about the data that is included in the registration certificate, including the owner of the vehicle and all relevant technical details, is stored in the electronic register, in the central vehicle register. All authorised services, including the police, and others that need this kind of information on a daily basis, have access to this record. Therefore, I have a question: Are there any plans to simplify the form of registration proof, even by giving the right to print it in the departments of communication, because the electronicisation of this document (the Bell) has led to a situation in which it is de facto unnecessary? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u364	Thank you, sir. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u365	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, we discussed a draft law on public documents. The Act consists of two sides of A-4, to which the legislative amendments were made at 50% the area of this bill, the whole page of the amendments. Minister, two questions: Why do you do this as Minister of Administration and Home Affairs, not Minister of Justice, and what happens if you do not succeed, which means that this law will not be implemented after 12 July? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u366	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u367	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Is this a project that deals with sudden, unforeseen events? As it seems, no. Does the project involve any kind of war? I'm sure he doesn't either. That's why the project, which has been proceded in ministries for 1.5 years, was urgently sent to the Sejm? I would like to ask for an answer and to inform Poles honestly why this is the case, why the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs must urgently process this type of law, which is still to be adopted by the Senate and is to be implemented by 12 July. And the final question: What would have happened in our homeland if this law had not been introduced by July 12? I would very kindly ask the Minister for a factual answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u368	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u369	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! 3.5 years ago, a law on public documents was passed, the main purpose of which was to introduce a rule that documents issued by public authorities were drawn up on sheets with a fixed model, with safeguards preventing their counterfeiting. The total entry into force of this law, because it entered into force in fragments, is scheduled for 12 January 2023. I am convinced that, in the meantime, the Ministry, the government was preparing to implement this law because there was no reason to do otherwise. And today we read that this rule, which I just quoted, does not apply to judicial and notarial documents that have been excluded. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What costs did the Ministry incur to prepare this law for implementation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u370	Thank you. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u371	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the present Act on public documents from 2023, courts and notaries will be required to draw up documents on blanks with a fixed pattern of safeguards preventing their counterfeiting. The proposed amendment excludes legal documents from the system provided for by law. The waiver of this form of document security should be balanced by other actions and by stepping up the work on the computerisation of courts, so that systems enabling verification of the authenticity of documents are effective. I wanted to ask: What substitute actions does the government want to implement so that the effect of the law in 2018 is similar? The bill was good, and suddenly it's bad, and I'm having second thoughts about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u372	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The contested law, the amendment of the Act on Public Documents, extends the deadline for two documents. It is a sailing book and documents resulting from the Law on Arms and Ammunition - until 2024, for various months. I have a question for the Minister: How many documents a year can we talk about? How many documents a year do you have? It's about the sailing books and the papers that the gun and ammunition bill says about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u374	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u375	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to protest against this unprecedented attack by Mr Jan Szopiński, Mr Zbigniew Ziobra, who today attacked Minister Zbigniew Ziobra, instead of discussing ad rem on the bill on public documents. I read that Mr Jan Szopiński has of course an interesting professional experience, because he was the head of the Ideo-Education Center in the municipal committee of the Polish United Workers' Party in Brusa. Mr. Jan Szopiński has already escaped from the Seym... [[Voice from the Chamber: He's in committee.]] ...but I will say one thing: you are the last person to sum up and judge Minister Zbigniew Zioba. You and the Eurocrats voted on the Fit for package today. 55, which hits poor Poles and will increase this poverty, will hit millions of Polish families, so do so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u376	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u377	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The draft arrived today at the Sejm, the first reading of the committee was held today, and now there was a report in the Sejm. I'm surprised we're not going to vote on this tonight. This is the patronage of the PiS, I would say even: spécialité de la maison, a specialty of the chef, who since yesterday, as we heard, has made all decisions concerning Poland in the privacy of the office at ul. Nowogrodzka. You may like this, but I will always protest against this legislation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u378	Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u379	I have a question from the cycle: how much it costs. I would like - this may be information on some piece of paper in the grate, that's enough, it doesn't have to be a long paper - to find out how much it costs that the ministry was preparing to implement this law, but there has been a change, maybe not a refund by the stern, but still some significant corrections. I'd like to know how many zlotys went to the bucket on this shift, how we're doing. I would also like to know what saves the citizen, the countryman, the Pole on the fact that these high standards, these marks that hinder the forgery of documents will not be required so quickly. How much are we gonna save in court that the notary's price isn't gonna go up? Is that calculated somehow? I'd like to know what these numbers are. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So mysteriously, dangerously, seriously sounding passages, which in this shortly project concern weapons...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u380	Thank you. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u381	...immunitions and visitors from...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u382	Mr President, time is up, thank you. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u383	I remind you that in Poland there is supposed to be a threefold division of power, so I ask why it is not the legislative authority that prepares laws that obey the executive authority, only the executive authority prepares them and then executes the laws it wants. I have a second question. Sleep. Parkinson said bureaucracy is a well-organized plague. Don't you feel that under your rule, which takes place in the fumes of legislative diarrhea, this plague is equally dangerous but increasingly disorganized? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u384	Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u385	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question concerns the procedure in which we are dealing with the bill today. Why did the government send this project as a matter of urgency? It is not surprising that, in such a way, we proceed in a situation where we are dealing with, for example, the law on war in Ukraine, but it is surprising when we are dealing with the bill on blanks for courts or notaries, because today we are de facto proceding this law. I have a second question about these changes that took place between 2018 and today. Has the number of crimes involving this matter increased or decreased? How did it look over the years? There must have been some justification for this, there must have been some reason why you made this decision. In a special way, I'm asking about this mode. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u386	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Minister Bartosz Grodecki, will answer the questions of ladies and gentlemen. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u387	Dear Marshal! Dear ladies and gentlemen, Thank you so much for these questions. I'll try to answer them as comprehensively as possible. The question was repeated here as to why the project was being dealt with as a matter of urgency. It was in the explanatory note. We simply considered that the date of 12 July 2022 for the first and second categories of documents, i.e. sailing books and for the documents set out in the Act of 21 May 1999 on arms and ammunition, simply cannot be complied with. We're also talking about about about $5,000. sailing books, which are still in circulation, so shifting this term from July 12 to a later date seems justified to us because these sailing books can still be used and will not be missing, and the second thing is obviously the issue of printing new books and the issue of components for their production, because due to the conflict in Ukraine these components are available on the market to a limited extent. Let me answer you one at a time. Mr Suchoń asked about the CEPiK and the simplification of the registration document. It's called competence. The Ministry of Infrastructure and this was a question beyond the statutory regulation, so as to the information that the Member wanted to obtain, I suggest you ask the competent Ministry. With regard to the question of Mr Adamczyk, why the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, not the Ministry of Justice, was the decision of the Council of Ministers. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration is the host of the law. Of course, the bill applies to many resorts, but we are the host, which is why we are the resort that presents and is responsible for this project. As regards Mrs Czernow and Mrs Navel's questions, the answers to them are in the explanatory memorandum on pages 6 and 11. As a general rule, with regard to the conduct of proceedings and the implementation of electronic systems, they were implemented after 2018. It is the National Debt Register, the National Court Register, and the Central Repository of Notarial Acts. They were only introduced after the adoption and entry into force of the law which we are now updating. This is the justification obtained from the Ministry of Justice, the evaluation that has been carried out, and we therefore exclude those documents mentioned by the Ministry of Justice. It is simply that costs are disproportionate to what has already been implemented with regard to the introduction of certain solutions at the level of electronic marketing. Mr Wozniak asked for documents on how much is spent annually on the police. Why are you here, Mr. Policeman? I don't know why she's still so emotional about you. After all, it's a state service. That's about 300,000. annual documents issued by the police themselves. I'm done. With regard to Mr Braun's questions, this law, it is also written in the OSR, does not have any financial consequences. As I said here, it is making some savings, because the actual implementation of these changes on 12 July, as regards the Ministry of Infrastructure in the case of the sailing book and the Ministry of Home Affairs, as regards documents, would generate costs in the case of the Ministry of Justice. These costs would be significant in terms of somewhat one-page documents. Not only are they in electronic circulation - and the fact that they are in electronic circulation means that their authenticity can be confirmed - it would also have to be printed on hard copies. It's a huge cost when it comes to the taxpayer's pocket. Hence this change and hence this urgent procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u388	Thank you kindly, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Wiesław Szczepański, also asked for the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u389	High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank everyone for their participation in the discussion. As we can see, no one has made any adjustments. It will be possible to vote on this project tomorrow. At the same time, I would just like to address the legislative issue. Indeed, the draft at the Council of Ministers was signed by the Minister of Justice, and yesterday after the Council of Ministers, Minister Dworczyk's letter was sent as an urgent project. At the same time, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs was appointed. In view of this decision, your Marshal's proposal was addressed to the administration committee in the hope that this project would be dealt with quickly. Today we had the first and we have the second reading. Therefore, we will be able to accept him tomorrow. At the same time, Inspector, I would like to apologise as President of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for Mr Braun's statement. I think the uniform deserves respect, and you are simply here as a representative of the Ministry and answer any questions you may have, so please accept on my behalf an apology for what the Member has said. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u390	Thank you very much. [[Corrigendum.]] There's no reason. [[I'm asking for respect for the uniform...]] Well, you've already made your point. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Information on the activities of the Ombudsman in 2021 and comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child in Poland (print No 2156) together with the position of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy (print No 2366). I kindly ask Mr. Nicholas Pawlak's child's attorney to present the information. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u391	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you once again for the opportunity to provide information about the activities of the Ombudsman, this time for 2021, together with comments about the state of compliance with the rights of the child in Poland. 2021 is another year of emergency, unprecedented, unpredictable and special situation for our children, precisely for our children, for children raised, for a generation of Poles raised in freedom in access to their peers, to school. It's a period in which the whole month of lockdown, remote education, once again lasted. This has caused, in many respects, these problems, which mainly affected children and young people. We adults, of course, were a little better prepared for this. To answer these problems, because we were already after the first year of the pandemic, to have some solutions, policies, practices and regulations, we need to have knowledge. Therefore, in 2021, in order to have these professional and effective tools, I decided to conduct the largest survey of the quality of life of children in Poland in almost 20 years. These results have allowed to identify the level of functioning of children in the most relevant spheres of life for them. This study covered six basic areas: school, family, mental well-being, peer group, social media, Internet and physical condition. Allow me to limit myself to these key issues because of the time we have in the plenary room. All parliamentarians received this report not only as an annex to the annual information but also as an additional printed report, i.e. was printed for each of the parliamentarians. A very important part of the Ombudsman's activities in 2021 was the expansion and continuation of the activity of the child's phone trust, 800 12 12 12. In addition, I would like to point out that the operation of this phone was also developed in a very modern form, i.e. Internet chat. And as it turned out, in 2021? That it was about 50,000. telephone calls, including 10 000. Internet chat rooms. In many cases, children were helped, children were rescued in crisis situations. But I'll talk about it in a minute. A few words about the activities of individual teams. There are teams within the office, including a team of family matters. I continue to practice during my term of office: the impact of cases was once again significantly greater, more than 1600 new ones were affected. As in previous years, I made decisions to approach most of them on individual matters, and each of the cases, regardless of which team she was involved, was carefully examined. Applications for emergency measures were also received. In the case of none of them, I have found no basis for such a measure. General speeches were also being prepared, which resulted in changes in a number of aspects, as we are about to discuss. Another thing, like I said, is a child's phone call. The main problems that children and young people have been facing are mental problems, depression problems, suicidal thoughts, self-harm, anxiety disorders, stress problems, problems with cyber violence, violence from parents and other adults, peers, conflicts with peers, problems with school, learning difficulties, complaints about teachers. These are the problems with which children and young people turn to us, because children - and this is confirmed by us children and young people in this study, in the report - on the one hand in the family see the support, in the school see the necessary place of meeting and education, but at the same time in us, adults, often do not see time and attention. And that's what the young people in this report paid attention to. This report resulted in recommendations drawn up by the expert board, which I appointed at the Ombudsman's office. There are experts, psychologists, educators and lawyers working on the child's trust phone. We immediately serve all the assistance related to the Ombudsman's activities and competences. As long as there was such a basis for intervention, we immediately connected with the services, with the institutions, with the courts. We have signed agreements with the Police Headquarters. An agreement with the Minister of Health last year was very important. This allowed the child's phone to become a first contact counsellor, which coordinated the field of child psychiatry reform tasks in the Ministry of Education, the activities of introducing more educators into schools. That's what a child's phone is for. The child's phone of trust was also promoted in many media. There have been campaigns, information about a phone call should reach each school. It was sent to all the parolees, to all the local authorities, so that the directors would pass this information to the students. Other cases involved education and upbringing. The basic issues are the disciplinary issues of teachers, although last year they were significantly less due to remote education. Unfortunately, now that the students have returned, I notice a significant increase in these cases, several in the course of the week this year. Further issues are those concerning checks in youth educational centres, the functioning of nursery, kindergartens and schools of all types. High Izbo! Further issues include social, social and administrative matters. There was also a significant increase here, almost a thousand new cases. There have been six requests for exceptional appeals, one has been taken into account. In social affairs, the most important topics are social benefits, 500+, welfare benefits, travel vouchers, in these areas. We have helped to clarify these issues, but at the same time it is the determination of pension rights, health issues. Incessantly, these were matters concerning contact with children, contact with parents during the pandemic, at the time of the closure of health care facilities. I have always sought that parents are part and part of the child's support in the treatment process, and whatever the general situation, they should always be close to the child, and I have taken such interventions. Further social cases concerned limited access to health care, child's medical records and Coronavirus cases, and in this respect, for example, care allowance for parents of younger children who had to stay with them during the lockdown at the time of the closure of their places of education. Next thing you know, High Izbo, it's international. They are constantly in a significant number. Last year, 368 new cases. These are mostly so-called cases. The Hague Convention on Parental Abductions. It was about the return of the children to the places they had been before. Care cases with a foreign element. There have been cases concerning refugees, migrants who are on the territory of the Republic of Poland. In these cases, I have repeatedly joined proceedings before the Border Guard, administrative courts. In many cases we managed to help, often stopped. If the children in these families were already born in Poland, so before the Foreigners' Office or the Border Guard authorities, I stood many times in the defence of children and families. In addition, last year, for the first time in the history of the Ombudsman's activities, I successfully joined several cases before the European Court of Human Rights. As far as international cooperation is concerned, the most important part of this cooperation is active activity in the European Network of Ombudsmen of the Rights of the Child. The meetings of the Advocates last year resulted in Poland, Warsaw being granted a spring meeting in 2022. Last week dozens of advocates of children's rights were here, with us, in Warsaw. We hosted them, talked about a lot of things. One day was devoted to Ukraine's affairs. It is very important that the other spokespersons in different parts of Europe, at different ends of Europe, learn about this situation. We will appeal to governments of countries to support not only us, Poland, but also Ukrainians in rebuilding their country and protecting their children. More stuff. I set up an organizational unit last year - the team. Crimes Against Children. This team is supposed to make reports of crimes against children. The panel also prepared a draft supplementing the powers of the Ombudsman, who was sent to the family committee to propose as a committee project so that the Ombudsman in a specific catalogue of criminal cases, the hardest ones, could proceed to criminal proceedings in the defence of children. Another issue is the dissemination of the rights of the child. Due to the pandemic, there was a very limited possibility of meeting with children, while we continued to meet remotely, we continued our activities through various promotions, through the granting of honorary patrons to institutions which are in fact ombudsman of children's rights in various places in Poland and which cause our awareness, the awareness of how important our children are, to be extended. I believe that very important, High Izbo, is this - I will return to the report on the quality of life of children in Poland - that children and young people from different age groups, from different classes, from different schools, from different voivodships - it was very widely treated, it was tested on the basis of very objective criteria Kidscreen, i.e. the same criteria were applied throughout the European Union, so this report is objective - they indicated that the family is a safe place, that the family is a place for children, that the school is a place for children, that these peers' meetings, stationary science are extremely necessary for children and that no remote education will replace it. Children and young people have told us a lot. This report is a collection of children's voices, not Pawlak's spokesperson, not scientists. The board of experts is there to draw up recommendations on this basis. At the same time, I hope that this report will be the basis for many institutions, for many universities, for example pedagogical and educational profiles, will be the basis for various kinds of new research. The pandemic period, now the war period has brought us new topics. I would like to mention from this place, High Izbo, also a very important initiative from last year, about the memory of Polish children imprisoned in the concentration camp in Łódź. Thanks to President Andrzej Duda and Prime Minister Piotr Gliński, whom I thank have managed to establish the Museum of Polish Children. This is a generation of children of war. There are survivors still alive, and then, a year ago, in May, when this museum was established, we did not suppose that after less than a year we would have 1 million children of war right from Ukraine. I think we should thank our children very much in this place. Regardless of our views, we have shown open hearts and our children have passed this very important life test, which means they have accepted their colleagues, without even knowing the language, to their homes, shared peace, school bench, often textbooks, often with their toys. This shows, this is the effect of how well we are perceived as families, as a society, because I think that if we were a society as changed as Western societies, we would not have our homes open, but we would have refugee camps. Therefore, I very much thank our children, our families, for the fact that such values, because values are very important, have been passed on to them. Finally, I would like to say that there are a number of topics that still need to be changed in relation to the state of the child's rights, but I would like to thank all the ministries and the High House for the fact that many of these projects have been or are in the process of being adopted, such as today's legal press has confirmed that the law on foster care is now entering into discussions with the Ombudsman's comments, for which I thank you very much (the bell) or even a reduction, I hope, of parental alienation by introducing rules that clarify family law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u392	Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. I kindly ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to present her position to the committee. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u393	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I present a report to the Joint Commission: Education, Science and Youth and Social and Family Policy on information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2021, together with comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child, print No 2156. The joint committee's report is in print 2366. On 22 June, following your referral to the Joint Committees, the Marshal of the Sejm considered the Ombudsman's report. There was a discussion on the document submitted. Members had the opportunity to ask questions and received answers from the Ombudsman. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Commissions: Education, Science and Youth, Social Policy and Family Policy took note of the Ombudsman's activities in 2021, together with comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u394	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mrs Dominika Chorosińska. There's no... There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u395	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on information about the activities of the Ombudsman for 2021, together with comments on respect for the rights of the child in Poland. The information is provided in print No 2156. As we know, the Ombudsman has a duty to uphold the rights of the child as defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other laws, respecting the responsibility of the rights and obligations of the parents. The Ombudsman has an obligation to act to protect the rights of the child, in particular the right to life and health, the right to family education, the right to decent social conditions, the right to science, the right to protection against violence. The information presented to us about the activity is a document showing the activity of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child throughout the last year. It was another year difficult because of the pandemic restrictions, which in a special way affected the youngest generation and often limited its development needs. Therefore, the ombudsman's shoulders depended on asking for the rights of children and their parents in childcare institutions under the age of 3, in kindergartens and schools, in hospitals. Due to the changes and restrictions introduced in the organisation of the education process, the most common exceptional epidemic situation, local restrictions introduced unfortunately very often did not follow the guidelines of the chief health inspector, and they were overinterpreted. The parent's right to stay in educational institutions was most often restricted in the case of a child's adaptation period. In these cases, the role of the Ombudsman was crucial. The Ombudsman also intervened in matters relating to primary and secondary school pupils who, due to quarantine, could not participate in a given stage of the competition or the Olympics. In our view, Mr. Nicholas Pawlak performed very well with these interventions. He claimed the rights of children and the rights of their parents in a committed, consistent and effective manner. Our special recognition is also due to the execution last year on behalf of the Ombudsman of the rights of a child of multidimensional and comprehensive research Mon. Quality of life of children and young people in Poland - edition 2021. These studies were carried out in areas such as: school, family, mental well-being, peer group, social media and the Internet and physical condition. They allowed to identify the current level of functioning of Polish children in the most crucial spheres of life for them and to adapt to identified problems of appropriate actions. The Board of Experts appointed by the Ombudsman has drawn up recommendations for each of the areas examined which will enable the institutions involved in the process of education and training of the young generation to take appropriate action. The Ombudsman intervened in the case of minors in foster care, in the case of minors in sociotherapy centres, in educational centres. The call of trust also deserves attention. In 2021, nearly 40,000 were reported. telephone calls and more than 10,000 were carried out. Internet chat conversations. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I presented the most important areas of action of the Ombudsman in 2021, from which Mr Mikołaj Pawlak, appointed to this office, met professionally. In the light of the above, the Law and Justice Club welcomes the Ombudsman's activities for 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u396	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Iwona Hartwich, on behalf of the Civic Coalition. Please state your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u397	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, once again, I have the honour to represent the Civic Coalition Club in connection with the performance report of 2021 submitted by the Ombudsman. I wonder all the time how you can sum up your business. I'm looking for your initiatives, I'm looking for concrete projects to address. But I think it's in vain. Indifference to children's harm, blindness to their problems, politics - this is what marks the office of the Ombudsman of children's rights by Mr. Nicholas Pawlak. Because you stood up for the defense of unborn children, but unfortunately you have a far-reaching passive attitude towards the born, healthy and sick, especially children with disabilities. The Ombudsman's activities are best illustrated by the situation of Jordanov's children, to which he responded after several dozen hours, but the action was a two-tasking communication. In my speech, I'd like to refer to you as a medical examiner. But she's not here. There's nothing at your place. No will, no will, no instruments. There's no action, no decisions, no initiatives. There's no determination, no energy. It's empty. This word is the motto of the Office of the Ombudsman in 2021. Where were you in 2021 when thousands of young people could not cope with pandemic isolation and remote science? Where were you when the money was taken to the phone? Where were you when the Krakow theatre was censored? Where was the spokesperson for the rights of the child when the pedophilia committee did nothing at all? Where was Santa Pawlak when PiS politicians ridiculed children's mental problems? You're not here, you're not there, and you're not, you're not really a spokesperson. No parent can trust you with their children's problems. You don't exist in public space. You will undoubtedly be an interesting figure for students of pedagogy or psychology or even law. You're gonna be a character who's gonna make a great deal of it, like a spokesperson shouldn't work. I wanted to ask you, where were you when the children were beaten in Jordan... [[It's already been done.]] ...when a disabled girl was abused and tied to a bed? Where were you when the children often spoke, screamed and begged for help? You weren't there, but you'll be accounted for. How dare you talk about your job and your supposed success when other people take their own lives? How can you look in the mirror knowing that you're actually doing so little? [[Voice from the hall: He is a spokesman, not a God.]] But what will this debate do? You're not gonna change, and we're not gonna change your mind. You'll go home to your family and sleep in a comfortable bed. I wish you'd dream of those Jordanov children, those beatings you didn't do anything for. In Poland, children do not have their spokesperson. Resign, give the field to those who take seriously the issue of children's rights in Poland. You just aren't fit. I'd like you to resign from this position. Mr. pseudo-disciplinary, apart from glasses, you still have to have eyes, and a child's rights spokesman should look into children's hearts. I also have this information for children and young people: Hold on a little longer. Please, look for help among the adults. We swear that normality will be back soon. I have another question for your spokesman: Why aren't you answering my letters? In March, I sent you a letter in which I asked you what you would do for children with disabilities because the nursing allowance was frozen. I haven't heard back from you so far. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Give it up, ma'am.]] You'd be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u398	Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, Club Left. Please state your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u399	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Thank you very much for these answers to the questions that were received at the committee meeting. Once again, to be fair, I would like to commend you for the lack of an ideological introduction that is actually missing this year. There's a report. I read it carefully. I've been able to ask a lot of questions. Unfortunately, I had to go out and go to the next committee, which is why I don't know if you answered the question about this part of the book that describes the case of pedophilia, but I will return to you with this question. I have time, so I will take this opportunity to ask additional questions, especially the social group that is working and working on the process of deinstitutionalisation, as well as foster care. I would also like to ask your spokesperson because I did not see the Ombudsman's comment on the latest report by Mr.Michael Janczura on the Seven Mutilations. Do you know this case? This is a story about Adam, a boy who was chosen for a sex who was taken away from his loved ones, who had been deprived of all rights, and who ended up being locked up for innocence. He claims he was beaten at the DPS. Now, back to the DPS theme, I'm going to repeat something that I've emphasized from the very beginning. The priority in the history of the DPS in Jordan is not the fact that it was led by nuns. The priority in the history of the DPS is that we need to take the debate seriously about moving away from the DPS. We need to get away from the big piers, we need to get back to the original idea of deinstitutionalization that the social side has developed over the years. This is a social side where there are experts with very different political views, with which I have been working for many years. We may differ in any other aspect, but when it comes to supporting children and people with disabilities, we certainly all care about it. Therefore, Mr Spokesperson, I would like to ask: Is the Ombudsman planning to monitor and transfer children with disabilities to social assistance homes not only if they are transferred to foster care, but also if the court did not interfere with parental authority and the children have no contact with their parents? So, it's about situations where children still have parents, because parents haven't been taken away from those rights, children are in the DPS, but family and parents aren't really interested in them. I wanted to ask if the Ombudsman is planning to take action on the children's allowance with disabilities assigned to foster care. The supplement in 2012 was set at PLN 200 per month and has increased by PLN 30 over the last 10 years. Is the Ombudsman planning systemic measures to encourage people to adopt children with disabilities, e.g. by adopting with funding? It is definitely about adopting a large number of siblings, e.g. Fives, or adoption of a child with a disability, because we know there's a huge problem with that. I understand that such parents should also receive support to cover all additional costs, such as rehabilitation, therapy. It's gonna be some kind of support that's gonna help them make that decision. Is the Ombudsman aware of the inequality of respect for the rights of the child according to which institution the child is going to, and is he monitoring this situation? The point is that there are different standards of respect for rights, e.g. to support depending on the type of institution. E.g. If a child with disabilities goes to a specialist care and care facility, he jumps into the standard of care with the maximum number of children as he goes to a regional care and therapy facility, he already falls into the standard of care for at least 45 children, and if he goes to DPS, he falls into the standard of care of up to 100 children. So there are different standards in each of these institutions. Therefore, in theory the same child is treated everywhere differently, his rights, including the right to care, also. A group of 14-person children and a 100-person... The thing is, there are still the same kids in this group. In view of the EU requirements for deinstitutionalisation, have you already launched an action spokesman in counties to assess which districts have done in the topic of deinstitutionalisation of foster care for children with disabilities and patients? Are you monitoring this, or are you going to monitor the experience of good practices that he has, what is happening in the counties at all on the subject of deinstitutionalisation of foster care for children with disabilities? Is there anything going on at all? How long have you been tracking it and passing on the results? Is the child's rights attorney going to do something about the fact that... Wait a minute. Oh, that's right. The subject of discrimination by the Law of an educational student of a special school legitimizing himself with a disability, which as of today (the bell) Education law deprives the right to secure school transport after the age of 21, despite the fact that the student is a student until the age of 24. When he's 21, is he suddenly out of his wheelchair and healthy? Please answer me. If that's not possible today, I'll ask for a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u400	Thank you, Member. Turns out, you can be substantive, you can be different, but... Mr Dariusz Klimczak, on behalf of the Polish Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u401	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There are three key elements for the child's comprehensive development. These are, of course, adequate living conditions, good quality education and a high level of health care. Each of these elements depends not only on the family situation of the child, but also, what is important, on the smooth functioning of the structures of the state and local government. In all these areas, there are problems where the Ombudsman should not only respond but also identify and even demand appropriate solutions. I'm gonna start by accessing the children's health system. Many studies and objective data show that few people can say yes. Unfortunately, the need for paid medical visits and limited access to medical professionals in the public health system must be mentioned among health problems. There are many medical specialties to which access is very difficult, difficult, not to mention Poland outside a large agglomeration - access to various types of specialists in the countryside is even impossible. This leads to a diagnosis, which is also available in large cities and also very difficult. Thus, many parents simply pay out of their own pocket for treatment or diagnosis, testing their own children. We know what the late detection of all kinds of diseases ends with. Here it is necessary to put pressure on the Ombudsman and I, on behalf of my club, commit, not only to ask, but to oblige the Ombudsman to put urgent pressure on the Minister of Health, on the Prime Minister, in order to fight in the health system a really solid fight to finally reform this part of the functioning of the state. Take, for example. The Medical Fund. I hope that the Ombudsman of the rights of the child will react to how the Medical Fund works, what resources were to be allocated there, how they are used. I hope that the Ombudsman of the rights of the child will also finally respond to the situation of children with SMA and their parents, carers. In most EU countries, the most expensive drug is refunded. In Poland, not yet. Parents, carers collect, beggars, show up on the streets, collect money in cans, because the Polish state cannot afford treatment, and these cases are only about 50 per year. I oblige the Ombudsman to intervene in this case (Applause), the more that the Medical Fund has been created, there is money in it and it is not used. If the health system, it would seem, the prose of life - dentistry. We can't deal with caries epidemic among children in Poland. Pretty much every kid has a problem with that. It's mainly because of poor access to dental treatment. As a general rule, children are covered by unlimited funding for dental services. This does not mean, however, that our children's parents may demand that every medical procedure be performed, at any frequency, not to mention access to procedures in the countryside and in smaller cities. What steps did the Ombudsman take on this matter? According to a national survey of children and young people, half of Polish teenagers do not accept themselves, almost half have enough and are overwhelmed by problems, and almost 40% feel lonely. Recently, the spokesperson for the rights of the child was asked in the media to explain the origins of these problems and pointed out that: the study shows how wide the problems of the young generation are, both in relation to school, mental well-being and family and peer relationships. In view of this, has the Ombudsman intervened with the Minister of Education, Health, Family or other members of the Government to address these problems? I'm waiting for the details. Another issue is child psychiatry, which is in huge trouble. National centers break at seams, and parents with mental problems must pay even several thousand zlotys a month for their stay in private institutions. Not much, infrastructure is tragic. But apart from what's going on with the infrastructure, lately it turns out we don't even know what's going on out there. The DPS example in Jordan doesn't allow us to be calm. And is your child's rights attorney sleeping peacefully in this situation? Mr Ombudsperson, we ask you to intervene in this matter, also to intervene in relation to the words made by you by the Małopolska curator, but also by Fr Tadeusz Rydzyk, who spoke on this subject. Mr. Spokesman, you must intervene in this matter. If they don't listen to you (the bell) in the government, go even to the pope to claim these children. This is what the Polish state pays you for, and that is what citizens pay for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u402	Thank you. Mr Michał Urbaniak, on behalf of the Confederate Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u403	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! I'll start with one point. Well, Mr. Pawlak is a spokesperson, not Lord Almighty God, so he's probably not gonna do everything for us. He has very specific tasks. In my opinion, he's doing his job pretty well. It's just obvious. You can't be anywhere at once. But this is the youngest generation of Poles and of course another generation will have bigger problems if we take care of them. In his report, the Ombudsman drew attention to one fundamental aspect, which unfortunately is also the fault of this government, which we have today - remote education and lockdown in education, alienation of students, breaking people's ties, problems with adaptation in our environment, the escape to the social media world just before the reality that surrounds young people, the lack of movement that was caused by piling up in front of a computer all day long. It lowers your physical condition. Every fifth child has a feeling of rejection, one in seven feels dissatisfied with his life to a degree that threatens his mental health, and we have dramatically few children's psychiatrists today in Poland, and that is also a problem. I urge you to raise this subject, too. That's the result. just lockdowns in the education that this government gave us in a large part in agreement with the opposition. There is another problem that affects many young people, the issue of not distinguishing between good and bad, the question of how you monitor the issue of relativisation of reality, blurring these differences, promoting an extremely left-wing agenda, including in pop culture. It is possible that the Left also tells the youngest, e.g. The fact that killing an unborn child is completely normal. This cannot be agreed and I encourage monitoring.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u404	Thank you. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation. But this exchange is still an extension of your time. There are 37 seconds left, and I am not prolonging the time for this march at least, sir. Here's to the long march.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u405	37 seconds. Ceterum censeo - parental alienation. On the one hand, you are fixing the Ombudsman's error from a few years ago - you have negative opinion on print No 63, and now you are proposing similar solutions yourself. Not too far away again, but it's always a step in the right direction. On the other hand, you are in favour of improving the current exploitation of maintenance, i.e. alimony at least immediately. One hand you fix, the other you spoil. The root of the problem is the maintenance decided automatically in Polish courts. After a divorce, parents should maintain equal rights to their children (the Bell) and take the same care of them personally, not through alimony paid to one another. I'll finish with the question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u406	Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u407	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I must say that I was extremely surprised at the calm tone of your speech during the presentation of the report. Why? I will quote a few passages from your report: Every seventh child in Poland feels dissatisfied with his life in a way that threatens his mental health. Every seventh child, ladies and gentlemen. Every five children feel rejected by their peers. Every other teenager is sometimes afraid of aggressive reactions from her friends and friends. Every other one. From other studies we know, from other sources we know that Polish children are the ones that most of the children in Europe do not like school. Another quote from your report: Nothing bad is happening to the Polish family. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read it again: Nothing bad is happening with the Polish family. These are the opinions that are contained in the Ombudsman's report, which he thinks is all right. There's really not much to do. I don't mind you setting up museums, but really in the context of the problems of Polish children - put them on, but also tell us about the most important problems of our children. The most important problems of our children are health care problems and lack of access to this care, with closed branches, you yourself write about it - closed 27 pediatric or paediatric branches, 18 gynaecological and obstetric wards. Dramatic shortcomings in psychological care. A drama in psychiatry. We've been talking about this for years. We have a specially prepared program. Use it. In 2021 there were more than 500 suicide attempts than in the previous year, not to mention the suicides of children and adolescents themselves. This is a drama, and in this context you say - four minutes of your speech you devoted to it - the call of trust. Mr. Spokesman, you've received money for a phone call of confidence. You made one of your priorities so that children wouldn't have access to pornography. Well, it's just that there's one sentence in your report on this. What results? No results. DPS and the situation of children with disabilities, those who are in DPS and in families. Did you order control of the DPS after what happened last time? Have you even paid any attention to what's going on with these kids? Bakes a surrogate and dramatic situation in this area. Unfortunately, there is no time to say more, but this report is a report about your lack of action (the Bell) in the basic areas where you should get to work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u408	Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question by Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u409	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for your spokesman whether he is in favour of introducing a law in Poland such as in Hungary, a law which prohibits the intrusive, ideological, leftist propaganda of gender and LGBT environments in schools, so encouraging practices that are not, you can say, compatible with natural law. This law would protect Polish children who are actually subjected to indoctrination of the left, are encouraged to homosexual practices, are encouraged to do this gender ideology. Are you in favour of protecting Polish children and introducing this law? I'm a big supporter. It's just to protect the kids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u410	Thank you. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u411	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! When Mr. Pawlak was director of the Department of Family Affairs and Minors, he dealt with the Justice Fund, then he had real responsibility. That's what you had when you made your decision on Pegasus for $25 million. You've been very effective, you've been very useful in this power, and I'm sure this position... But when you are needed, I see passiveness, absolute indifference, which I sometimes call indifference - indifference to harm, violence, that the needs of young Poles, young Poles, children and young people are not being met. Why don't you intervene when there's information that the Medical Fund is gathering funds and children, their parents across the country are collecting for modern oncology treatments? What did you do about it? The second thing is child psychiatry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Here I see absolute negligence. The Ombudsman, Dr. Hanna Machinska, is active. You're passive, you're indifferent, and you're not working! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u412	Don't yell. Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u413	I'll start with a compliment after all: compared to last year's report, this is heaven. And the earth. Indeed, you can say that your spokesperson has come down to earth, stopped dealing with ideology and took care of children, children born, and well, but that ends with compliments, because of course there are a lot of omissions and negligence. I'll mention a few. In matters of pedophilia, the desert, you didn't do anything. There was no action on Kinga's 12-year-old suicide either, and there are no ideas on how to solve this problem. You didn't attend the women's rights team I invited you to tell me what you were going to do about it. Women's suicides have already been mentioned, this is a dramatic problem that requires proactive action rather than reactive action. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Spokesman, being a spokesperson is not only a response, an intervention, although it is necessary, but also an initiation of preventive, preventive actions. That's what I expect you to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u414	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of people to ask. I'm really gonna stick to this one minute and turn off the microphone. I'm so sorry. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u415	God bless you, Mr. Spokesperson, and thank you - first of all for expressing your concern about experimenting on children in the vaccination process less than a year ago in the Polish Parliament. The Lord then used this word, shared his anxiety and said that he would verify reports of vaccination, I quote, even very young children, which would be a crime, because it would most likely take place without decisions of guardians' courts. What are the results of your inquiries on this matter, and isn't this experiment (the bell) on children by chance continuing?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u416	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I wanted to ask you about the issue of education for children. For six years now, there has been a systematic, systematic struggle with the education system, with teachers. First of all, institutional reform, in the meantime perhaps a special understatement in terms of textbooks, now again fighting with teachers - these are mechanisms that discourage good teachers from teaching our children. I wanted to ask you what actions you took in this case, because if it takes longer to destroy Polish education, such a special downgrading of the level, it will soon turn out that Poles do not have a chance to confront the modern economy and the current challenges that lie on the horizon not only in front of Polish children and Polish youth, but also in front of the whole (Dawn) world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u418	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u419	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! That's a good report, Minister. Thank you for making it. I read it with great attention. On the other hand, I wanted to ask you two questions. The first thing is the issue of children from Ukraine. Although this report does not cover this period, some of these problems have already occurred, because in fact this invasion started in 2014. The second thing I wanted to ask is the constitutional principle that every authority, every office, has a duty to listen to the child and, as far as possible, to agree to his expectations. Is there a debate on this issue (the bell) and are the ministries doing something about it? Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u420	Thank you, sir. Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u421	High Izbo! The Ombudsman's Office prepared a report on the nationwide study of the quality of life of children and young people in Poland. It involved different areas, such as mental well-being or the school environment. There are recommendations there, but, as we know, the paper will take it all. There is no real support for children in your Ombudsman's actions. I can give examples of the lack of the Ombudsman's voice, such as on the situation of disabled children in the DPS in Jordan or on the issue raised at the meeting of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism, which concerned harassment in the text in Łomianki. Then you told your deputy that you didn't intervene because nothing happened. How bad does it have to be for your spokesperson to take action? Let us remember that children are defenceless and the Ombudsman's task is to protect their (Ring) rights in any situation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u422	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u423	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I didn't really learn anything from this report. I haven't found out what's important to you, what your successes are, what your priorities are. You've listed some problems as a matter of fact, like a comptroller, not like a spokesperson. You should stand by the rights of children, which means you should protect them. From all the data it appears that children in Poland feel bad, they feel bad that their rights are being violated, that you do not really perform this function in a way that would protect these children. You do not do this function in such a way as to protect children from paedophiles, you do not do this function in such a way that people with disabilities can feel good among nuns, or in a way that allows them to feel good about children who are discriminated against in schools because of their sexual orientation. I have a question: When will you get to work, Mr. Spokesman? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u424	Thank you. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u425	In 2019 alone, there were 66 suicide attempts among children, and in 2021, in the year of panic sowing, in the year of isolation, in the year of lockdowns, there were 291 attempts, i.e. more than four times more. It's obviously not the Ombudsman's fault because there's nothing he can do about it, but it's the government's fault and the pseudo-opposition that's now bubbling about the situation of children. They were the ones who supported the panic and isolation of children from other children. I'm glad to see that, within the limits of your abilities, you've been asking for children at the time. I would like to believe that it was thanks to your spokesman that suddenly at the beginning of this year the virus magically disappeared, and the lockdowns, insulation and masks became unnecessary. Everyone walks around with smiles on their faces, and we Confederates aren't the ones who sow death, because the virus suddenly doesn't exist. However, it seems that someone else and for completely different reasons (the bell) pressed this mysterious button. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u426	Thank you. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u427	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I have two legal questions. What's your opinion on the criminal responsibility of 14-year-olds? The law, which lowers the criminal liability threshold to such a century, is now rushing through the Polish Sejm. I have a second question. 16 requests have been made to you for extraordinary appeals, cassation, cassation complaints, family emergency complaints. All these conclusions have been negative. What is the result of such a strict assessment of these proposals? What results from the fact that by 1/3 you are less likely to proceed to this type of proceedings with the seriousness and validity of your office? Maybe the children in Poland have stopped having problems? Maybe your office works less efficiently. Or do you simply not wish to conflict with just the right authority of the Republic of Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u428	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u429	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thoughts and suicide attempts are increasing among children and adolescents. In April this year. In the Polish Parliament, recalling the data of the Police Commissioner, you said yes, I quote: from January to November 2021 in the risk group, in the age group from 7 to 18, there were more than 1,400 suicide attempts, and in 2020 there were 863 attempts. Moreover, further worrying statistics relate to the number of suicide attempts undertaken by children aged 7 to 12 years. In 2020 such notifications were 29 and in 2021 already 51. Mr. Spokesman! From the beginning of your term of office, we have drawn your attention to these alarming data. Your declarations and awareness of the problem are no longer sufficient. Action is needed, real action is needed. Hence my question: What efforts have you made in these years to reduce these tragic statistics? But why have these actions proved ineffective? What actions are you planning to take in the coming months to help the youngest? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u430	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u431	Mr. Spokesman! Among the many rights of the child is the right to education, but this right of Polish children cannot fully implement when in school there is no one to teach them and support them in development. Today, 13 thousand are missing in Poland. teachers. The staff crisis in education is not simply an education crisis, a system crisis, a teacher crisis. It's a crisis victims of children, students and students. Do you, Mr. Spokesperson, see this problem? If so, what recommendations did you give to the Minister of Education and Science to stop the exodus of teachers from the Polish school? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u432	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u433	I'm going on with the subject. In practice, unfortunately, you support a situation in which an alien parent is to be paid, and perhaps in no case have you requested a change in custody decision. If I'm wrong, you can get me out of this. Yet the question of the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment: Why are you passive in this procedure? You volunteered for this procedure, but you didn't finally take your stand. And in the meantime, this judgment is breaking down the system that you are trying to strengthen with your legislative proposals, because the sentence is aimed at the fact that if the alien parent has a proper influence on the child so that it does not want contact, then these contacts do not have to be. We can imagine that a child made an arbiter in his own cause will be subjected to even stronger pressures. It doesn't come to anybody's mind before they get divorced, if the child doesn't want to see his parents because they're offended, forced on him, his will somehow respect and take away his parents for that reason. Why would it be any different after the divorce? My question: Why did you not (the bell) take a stand against this scandalous judgment of the TK?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u434	Thank you. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u435	Dear Ombudsman, Many questions have been raised here about the poor state of child psychiatry in Poland. These statistics are really scary. After the COVID, we have 30% left. children with symptoms of aggression, 40% are at risk of depression. But I want to ask you about a special group, about the young people who grow up in schools and sometimes discover their other sexual orientation. With regard to young people LGBT, and these are the latest studies, 69% in Poland Of these young people, he thinks of suicide. These are also the children you should look after. I wanted to ask you what actions you have taken or will take to protect these children from the worst of fate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u436	Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u437	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! You were talking about obeying the rights of the child. What about the right to health and to the life of the child? Help! Amelka needs your support. Zosia Szczeżewska fights for a drug that is called the most expensive medicine in the world - gene therapy. Health valued at a cruelly high amount. 10 million PLN - this is how much it costs to help a child with SMA. Zosi's dad has just moved his bike for health and life for his child and for many other SMAs: for Marysia, for Małgosia, for Konradek, for Nazarek, for all children who are sick of this severe, cruel disease. Repetition - Agatha must return to Barcelona, fighting for her life again. Help! I'm begging you, a 3-year-old girl is dying. We're begging for help. Urgent! If we do nothing, the Cinema will be sentenced to a wheelchair. Save the little girl. Save Antosia's heart. Mr. Spokesman! Where did you go? What did you do for these kids to help them? I want you to represent them and take care of their lives and health.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u438	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u439	I'm waiting to hear what you've done for these kids. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u440	Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! This was already at the committee meeting, but it must sound here, in the main chamber of parliament: My flirting with children quickly became erotic. Those little five-year-old girls already knew how to hit on me. A couple of times, my kids unzipped my fly and started petting me. Their demands were troublesome for me, but often I peted them. If anyone doesn't know what it is, it's HiT. At HiT, i.e. history and present, children will learn this from what Professor Roszkowski called a textbook, and another professor named Czarnek gave a positive opinion. Mr. Spokesman! What did you do with it? In such cases it is done, intervenes as a matter of urgency. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u442	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u443	Dear Ombudsman, You mentioned during your speech about setting up a task force. Crimes Against Children. I wanted to ask you what the results of this team's work are. Second question. You write in your report on 33 general speeches. I wanted to tell you that in 2017. Marek Michalak, your predecessor, had 186 such speeches. I'd like to ask you what this dramatic difference is. [[From a pandemic.]] The Pandemic does not interfere with general speeches. My good friend Michał Grammar was talking about 16 requests for cancellation, which you did not join, but there were also much fewer legal proceedings. I would also like to ask what this results from. And so it is as a summary. In this report there are noticeably few summaries and various kinds of tables that would show (The Bell) as with previous years the situation is present. I think we know why. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u444	Thank you, Member. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u445	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! You have such a pretty name that you really think of your children, and you don't even answer their writings. I was the one who was writing to you about a child who was in a mental hospital and there was no care provided for the next day, because the county help centre of the family, despite requests made throughout Poland to receive the child, received a refusal everywhere. I asked you. You didn't just do anything, you didn't even answer the letter. It's been three months. It's not enough that you didn't answer the letter, it's even worse that you didn't intervene. Today at the committee meeting, you said you were going to court. In this case, you couldn't turn to the court because there was no procedure. You know what? I'd rather have those magazines and letters sent to Santa Claus. And in this case, I demand an explanation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u446	Mrs Anita Sowińska, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u447	Dear Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Child! Child psychiatry is in deep crisis. Both doctors and children are missing places where they could get help. My question is very simple: What are you doing to solve the problem of child psychiatry? And I'm not just talking about more research and analysis, which only confirm that it's bad, but about real systemic initiatives that aim to increase the number of psychiatrists in children's psychiatrists and increase the number of places in institutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u448	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u449	So back to it: Private Mr Kaczyński! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Here are a few selected quotes from books available in your heart: Some children have very sensitive skin, where they easily appear. Parents should not be overly concerned if such minor injuries occur as a result of physical punishment. Quote from another book: "How long can a child be allowed to cry after being punished?" Honest crying lasts about 2 minutes, although it happens that and 5. After that, the child is just feeling sorry for himself. And the third proposal: "I will beat her until she breaks her will." It is very important that we do not make children beating in anger or nervousness. I wanted to ask, especially in the context of what happened in Jordan: Does the silence of your spokesperson against such publications mean permission to do so? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u450	Member Rafał Adamczyk, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u451	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! In the information section, the activity of the Child Trust Phone reads: The child's call of trust and the online chat of the child's rights attorney operate around the clock on all days of the week. In 2021, 38 786 telephone calls were made and 9885 internet chat was conducted, 102 individual visits were made. But before that, it's written about cases being handled: there are 203 new cases, cases from previous years - 228 cases ending - 161 cases. Mr. Spokesman! You are not a first year spokesperson, this is not the first year of your term of office. Questions: Why do things from previous years remain? What are the record periods for these cases? Thank you very much and I ask for a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u452	Thank you. Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u453	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for you, Mr. Child Rights Officer. On June 13, he saw the drama of children and children in the Jordanian Social Services House, led by nuns. Irregularities already at the preliminary stage of the audit were confirmed by both the voivode and the prosecutor's office, who charged two nuns. That day, I sent an intervention on this matter to your spokesperson. Unfortunately, despite my urgency, I have not yet received an answer. I didn't get an answer. Why is the child's rights spokesperson silent on this dramatic matter? Will the wards and their families be condemned by the ombudsman of the child's rights by these specific behaviors used by the nuns in this particular case? I'd like you to show us what action you've taken in this matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u454	Thank you. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u455	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman, the Ombudsman's work is assessed not only after what he has done, but also after what he has not taken and what he has not done. And that's what I want to ask your spokesperson. I want to ask you if you've drawn the attention of curator Nowak, who, after the events in Jordan, after exposing torture and violence, not only related what happened there, but said something much worse, said that - quoting her tweet - children with special needs could not lie to emotions, and the students from this house did not show fear in school. Mr. Spokesman, this shows that your parole officer Nowak knows nothing about the development of children, their emotions, and shows great shortcomings, and, moreover, he writes about it. So my question is, did you, in any way, draw attention to the need for your probation officer Nowak? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u456	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u457	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Seym! I have two specific questions. First. Children's psychiatry in Poland is in a very poor condition, a significant group of children is outside of specialist care, even though they need this care very much. What have you done, Mr. Spokesman, or are you going to do to help the children in this regard? And second question: Why did you allow a well-functioning trust phone system in Poland, run by NGOs, to cease to exist, simply to be destroyed? And it happens when the number of suicide attempts or, unfortunately, suicides is increasing alarmingly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u458	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u459	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Today I hope that you will hit your chest for saying: "I remember with an estimate that my father had punched me in the ass. I remind you what it means to say that it means respect, respect. Does this not strengthen social consent to violence against the youngest? Other words: Many may even view raising their voice as violence. Are these words for the good of children? We don't want the kids to be scared. And one more example, I quote: I also say strongly not to introduce WHO standards into the Polish curriculum. After all, the standards of the World Health Organization are nothing more than sexual education, smart, true, absolutely adapted to the age of a young person. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In many countries, it's been working for a long time. Isn't that right with us? I just wanted to add that family is the most important thing to me, too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u460	Thank you, Member. Mr Mateusz Bochenek. Madame, I have asked you to stick to your time. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u461	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! We've seen the great drama of children living in DPS. They were challenged, humiliated, tied to beds, locked in cages. It is about disabled children who require absolutely special care, which require empathy, sensitivity. I work with them myself, and I know they need a good man next door. That's absolutely the most important thing. It is when such a drama happens that the spokesperson of the rights of the child should sound, he should be the first on the scene, he should intervene automatically. It's not enough to send a letter, it's not enough for legal intervention. Children need sensitivity and empathy, they need a protective umbrella, and they need confidence that, in various situations, the spokesperson of the rights of the child will react. Being a spokesperson is a great responsibility that can't be taught. It's just something you have to have inside you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u462	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u463	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Poland flooded with beer. This is the title of the report from which I will quote data, but it is also a fact, because alcohol consumption in Poland has increased in the last 30 years. Poles, including young people, mostly drink beer. They're also watching his commercials. Age of alcohol initiation is now 12-13 years. Alcohol is the most commonly chosen psychoactive substance by young people. No doubt beer, including non-alcoholic beer, is promoted in a way that is attractive for children and young people. The world has moved on long ago and beer commercials don't need to be watched on TV. You can watch them online. The law in Poland is dimpled and allows for this. Mr. Spokesman! On 274 pages of your report, there are no such tasks as to help really prevent the growing consumption of alcohol by ever younger people. Did you carry out such tasks? Do you intend to carry out such tasks? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking you to tell us all about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u464	Thank you. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u465	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Lowering the age of punishment to 10 years - a child of this age will be responsible for committing a criminal act. I wanted to know what your opinion was. During the pandemic, Mr. Spokesman didn't do well. What were you doing when you needed an intervention in remote education? Concerts with celebrities instead of education. What have you done with the introduction of immediate and family alimony? I'd like to remind you that my dad beat me in the ass. I repeat after your messenger, but have you considered that this statement was inappropriate? What do you know about the pedophilia committee? I've been waiting for an answer for over a year. I guess that means the committee doesn't work. I ask you to take an interest in this matter and to respond in writing. What did you do for child psychiatry? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u466	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u467	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Burned out, overworked doctors quit child psychiatry. The branch in Gniezno in my voivodship, in Wielkopolska, will disappear from the map of Poland in a moment. The hospital hasn't been able to find doctors to work in the children's ward for a few months. He's been waiting six months for treatment. One of the bastions of Polish child psychiatry is also falling - all doctors from the clinic in my family Poznań have already given their statements in protest against the terrible working conditions. There'll only be residents left at the clinic, because the last ones can't leave. For Wielkopolska, it's a disaster. We're gonna be out of child psychiatry 24 hours a day. In the whole of Wielkopolska there are few more than 40 children's psychiatrists. In your report, you noted the dramatic situation regarding the mental health of our children, the closure of our troops. You wrote out the tools, but did you learn from these numbers and statistics? What are you going to do about that knowledge? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u468	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u469	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Where was the spokesperson for the rights of the child during the epidemic, when for many months several million children were locked up in four walls, learned remotely and needed huge support? Where was the spokesperson for the rights of the child when the nuns of Jordan were harassing the children? Where is the spokesperson for the rights of the child today, when Tadeusz Rydzyk defends those sisters who, as the media report, beat and bind children with intellectual disabilities? Ladies and gentlemen, will the Ombudsman of the rights of the child intercede for these children? Will you condemn Tadeusz Rydzyk for these words? He's asking a specific question. I'm asking for an answer. Ladies and gentlemen! Polish children don't have a spokesperson. There is only a person who has such a plaque on the door, but in Poland there is simply no ombudsman. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u470	Thank you. Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u471	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Ombudsman stands, among others, for the rights of the child. protect the right to life and health, the right to family education, the right to decent social conditions, the right to education. This office was established in Poland in 2000. It was the answer to the fact that it was bad in Polish society. We should have dealt with these phenomena. We all know that life around us is increasingly brutal, increasingly extreme. That's what kids suffer from. The Ombudsman points out phenomena that are dangerous, and that's what's in the report, that's what we see. On the other hand, the question is whether the Ombudsman is incapacitated. The fact that it shows phenomena is one thing, but whether it can work effectively is another. Do we need to strengthen the implementing rules so that (the bell) the Ombudsman not only shows problems but also tries to solve them with other institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u472	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u473	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna turn to your spokesperson first because I noticed that he's dressed very modestly today. You paraded in the Seym last year in a fetus shirt. I'd like to ask if you might have the courage to wear a T-shirt with a picture this year. 16-year-old Patricia from Dębno, 16-year-old Konrad from Gdansk or 12-year-old Kinga from Dąbrowa Tarnowska? Would you have the courage to wear a T-shirt with a picture of one of those kids who died because they committed suicide because there was no room for them in hospitals because they didn't have any psychological help at school? The increase in suicide among children and young people is dramatic. This is the table. The Lord should walk under his arm every day with this table and wonder what to do with it. 1400 suicide attempts in 2021 Mr. Spokesman, will you please get to work? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u474	But don't yell. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u475	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman, I'm not going to ask you what you did about the children being tortured by the nuns in Jordan, because we all know you did nothing about it. And I'm not gonna ask you what you did today when you did about it. Tadeusz Rydzyk defends these sisters because we also know that you didn't do anything. On the other hand, we know that you are a spokesman who willingly intervenes in accordance with the instructions received from Ordo Iuris. We know that you are very intensive in so-called cases. images of religious feelings, but not of children, but of adults who can take care of matters freely. I have one question for you regarding this document. Mr. Spokesperson, this is what Poland is asking: When are you going to start representing the interests of disadvantaged children?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u476	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask Mr. Nicholas Pawlak's Child Rights Officer to answer the questions raised.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u477	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for these questions, especially Mrs Kotula, Mr Dyduch. Surprisingly, ladies and gentlemen, I have led to some consensus, because within two minutes the Ombudsman of the rights of the child was commended by Mr Braun and Mrs Nowicka. So that miracles do happen. But to the point, as far as these specific questions are concerned, which can be summarised in substance. I had several general speeches, especially concerning children with disabilities. Some requests have been taken into account and, for example, today's specialist newspaper Gazeta Prawna mentions them. The law on the promotion of foster care will also go to your deliberations with my comments. I kindly ask that it be adopted as urgently as possible. For example, support for families of children with disabilities, children in foster care through a medical voucher. This is the answer to a few of your questions. These are children who cannot count on the support of their parents and even basic, but at the same time very much needed e.g. dental assistance. The voucher I wrote about in November in my speech would be very useful. It is also about supporting foster families by changing the way they are financed by e.g. employment contracts, not contract contracts. The certainty of this legal relationship would certainly support these families. This can still be introduced to this project. There are many other aspects of support. Mrs Kotula pointed to Education Law, the issue of children's access to schools. In terms of children up to the age of 18, because I have the competence to do so, I often act to support children after every signal that reaches me, so that in those municipalities where local governments often limit access to schools, it changes and that children with disabilities always have these accesses. The issue of child psychiatry probably sounded the most common. For 2-3 years, and basically for 2 years, and health resort, and education resort are introducing major reforms. Of course, there are some resorting divisions, that's what it usually is, and that's why last year I wanted to expand the activity of the children's trust phone 800 12 12 12 to make it such a support link that it would be such a first contact counsellor for children with problems. In fact, our children said in the report that there are quite a lot of those who have various problems. I've been talking about them, and I'm not gonna tell you what the problems are. At the same time, it is about developing support systems, this three-level system and developing psychological and pedagogical assistance in schools and making all 22,000. There were specialists in schools, but it was also about bringing psychological assistance to a lower level than in the psychiatric wards that I visited two years ago. I visited all of them to support at least one of the companies and they were transferred millions of zlotys to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, our children require support, because during the freedom they had, we gave them a period of closure and this caused even for us adults, many stress, conflicts and problems, let alone for children who were stuck with the Internet during the lessons, and especially for the smallest ones, the youngest ones. How much stress and stress have cost us such connections, let alone children. So let's not be surprised that this is the case, but let's help together, because only a joint action can eliminate it. In fact, the number of suicide attempts has increased - it is dramatic that a child, a young man, thinks this at all - and the number of these unfortunately effective attempts. In a large number of cases and a child's phone call to the Ombudsman's trust, and many others, such as the above mentioned Foundation We give the Children Strength, saved many children and each of these calls is due to respect, because also to my employees, and unfortunately to everyone else there will be no shortage of work. Many times they've kept the baby on the phone, so we talk all the time to find out where it is to save this baby. And there's been a lot of life-saving interventions like that. And I think that's what we should talk about. Then there are talks with parents who didn't know about it. They're calling us to say thank you. They are very touching, yet they show how much we still have to do. As far as child psychiatry is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, it is rather about support for all of us to do this together, because there is a lot of this, but we need to show them, talk about them. We don't have doctors, enough child psychiatrists. This is not a matter of the last three years, for example, my term of office, because the education of a doctor lasts for many years. And it is in these years, now, a few hundred new doctors, the new students of medical art in this specialization who are graduating. During the previous years, by 2018, these professions, these directions were destroyed. That's where they didn't want to come. Why? I leave that question unanswered. Ladies and gentlemen! I spoke with Mrs Matysiak for a moment about the ban on advertising - not sales, absolutely - alcohol. I agree with this, I have a general speech prepared to ban advertising in the media, certainly on television, because it actually increases the prevalence of alcohol consumption, and it induces children to do all kinds of addictions. This isn't right. The Jordan issue, because it sounds everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not here to be on the front page of this or any other television station, just to be on the spot and check immediately. That's what the D.A.'s office is for, which, fortunately, was there earlier than the reporters to press charges. Those who use any violence against children must be condemned because we cannot accept any violence against children. At the same time, many people and institutions everywhere in Poland are involved in helping these children, but not only children, because also older people, disabled people, who are in DPS, are involved. [[When were you there?]] There is a family court that I visit, there are local governments, there are voivodships. They were working. Last week I spent just to contact the family minister permanently, with the voivodeship, to take this one place from the subject as soon as possible, from the sisters who led it to run it by the local government. And these findings just happened last Friday, which is after a few days, are also the issues of my findings, which I did not make on the first television screens. And those TVs that yell the most about it are those TVs that have been promoting violent programs for years, babysitters, about which doctorates were written, that it was empty, unobjected and completely unreasonable. And I expect an apology to those children and their families who have been harmed for years by violent programs, such as TVNu, to promote some supernuns. This must be condemned, because it has been soaked into social consciousness for years. Ladies and gentlemen! Education issues. There were questions about teachers. I recently spoke with the Ministry of Education and Science, Minister Czarnek. In fact, every year there is some movement in the provision of care and education by teachers. 13,000. or 12,000 several hundred teachers on a scale of 600 thousand. It's just an annual fluctuations. Those who scream the most about leaving public school are doing it because they go to private school where they may lead some other form of education. In this respect, at a time when we have than demographics, teachers will certainly not be missing. The point is that they're teachers who are smart, decent and sensitive to children's affairs. Those are the lines. Here's another thing. The cases of Ukraine already concern this year. Mr Wojciechowski raised this question. As much as we could support and thank all those who have committed themselves to helping the Ukrainians, children and families, this must be done. At the same time, in my office, the phone of trust immediately, after a few days after the outbreak of the war, began operating also in Ukrainian and Russian languages, because we managed to accept ladies who are refugees. They came here with families, they're specialists, and they could support us. That's why we opened an intervention point in Łódź to be there for a large group. And this form of help also works. Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to the issue of the child's phone, whether it's a child's phone or a child's phone, I want us to be honest and tell the truth, because the posters with the child's phone and the trust phone of the Foundation give the Children's Force are distributed to all 22,000 by me. schools. Today I approved another 10,000. posters that will also be sent to schools after holidays. Please do not panic, because unfortunately, I will repeat this once again, for us this work will not be lacking, and this is the hardest job. The issue of projects, the issue of changes in legislation. Mr Sosnierz pointed this out once again. Yes, I support the rules that clarify the family code, but I look at family matters very widely, not just through the prism of one parent, but through the prism of the whole family procedure, because every family case in a child court is a harm to this child. And let's be aware that half a million family cases in family courts every year are at least 0.5 million child victims. And half a million children from 4.5 million of all Polish children are precisely the percentage of children, which in the report are indicated as children threatened with various kinds of interventions, because they, returning home, have no peace. They hear parents arguing, parents splitting up, parents getting divorced or parents arguing about their relationship with them. It's not the right of parents to interact with children. That's the law. a child to interact with both parents. Any recipe that will make it possible to adjust the situation of the child and listen to the child... Because there were also questions about whether there should be a child's attorney. Yes, it should be and that is what I am calling for, for example, by a project submitted to the family committee asking to extend the powers of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. I kindly ask the High House to put this project under discussion. He's not complicated. I'm not asking for any extra money. We're gonna take these cases to the office without additional resources so that in the most difficult cases of child crimes, from a closed catalogue of murders, violent rapes, beatings, these most violent crimes, there's a spokesperson for the rights of the child. The point is that next to the D.A., which is to convict the perpetrator and to point out his guilt, there's someone who's looking at the situation of the children. Ladies and gentlemen! Thanks, very large, are also due to all my colleagues. There's over 130 of them now, almost 140 of them. This time has caused us to develop the office's work, because there are more and more of these things. And it is not like Mr Grammar here... There's no Member again. It's a pity he didn't stay until after the family committee meeting, because there he got the answer that I'm continuing my case practice. I don't know how he got that kind of information, so I'm getting to a smaller number of cases. And why don't I file cassation complaints about family matters, about the ones that come to me most often? Because it is a matter of contact or parental authority, and such matters are not dealt with by the Supreme Court, but a new application must be made to the family court if relations have changed, and the family court will do so in further proceedings. That's basic legal knowledge. I hope that knowledge gets where it needs to be. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to see us before the end of the school year, because the day after tomorrow is the end of the school year, together we wish our children a wonderful holiday full of adventures, holidays that will allow them to breathe away from this school year, such a messed-up, pandemic, one of the years of war, meetings with these colleagues. The point is that they can rest from it and gain new strength over the summer. At the same time, I very much wish them wonderful memories of their holidays and adventures. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Medical Fund, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u478	Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u479	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Recently, Virtual Poland has reached the material that depicts the cruelty of the gift sisters and carers in the House of Social Assistance in Jordan towards children. Such cases may not come to light for many years. But it may be that checks or joint inspections by the Ombudsman and the relevant actors would protect against many harm. Therefore, I ask you to answer whether the Ombudsman of the rights of the child received signals of irregularities in children's homes, welfare homes, educational centres. Has he therefore taken any action to investigate this irregularity? Did the Ombudsman take or take specific action in connection with this atrocity detected in the Jordan Community Assistance House?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u480	I state that the Sejm has heard information about the activities of the Ombudsman for 2021, together with observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. High Izbo! The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law on specific arrangements for the protection of customers of certain solid fuels in view of the situation on the market for these fuels, print No 2361. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I don't hear any objections, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the proposals. [[Objection.]] About what, sir? [[Both. About the time of the speeches and about the procedure.]] Mr President, perhaps we can agree that the wheels - 4 minutes, and the Krakow trade fair are moving on. Okay? [[I objected, Marshal. Proced.]] Well. Excuse me, what do you have in mind as to further proceding? [[Well, there's been an objection and we're voting, aren't we?]] Oh, no, it's not. You don't have a marshal, so we don't vote, you know that. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 mins 06 hours 19 min 49]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u481	My dear friends, Members and Members, we must make a decision. I'm gonna need another 0.5 minutes. The decision will be in this direction: or, with Mr Braun's request, we will move to the voting block tomorrow morning, we will vote on it and we will proceed on this point tomorrow, or we will announce a 10 minute break, we will call the Sejm and we will vote on it in 10 minutes to proceed today. We're consulting on how important this is right now. So I have a polite request that we wait two more minutes because the phones have been ringing. And we're waiting for a consult. [[Voice from the room: We are waiting.]] Excuse me? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, I don't understand. [[Voice from the room: In this situation we wait.]] Yeah, I'm gonna ask you for two more minutes, because if we vote, I'm gonna call 10 minutes 'cause people have to go to the O.R. So there's no problem. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we're gonna do it. We will vote on Mr Braun's proposal in the voting block. Therefore, we move on to the next item, which is to the report of the Rules of Procedure... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] The question is, is today, for example. in an hour or two, because we consult whether Members can be gathered or not, or tomorrow. I'll talk about it in half an hour, then I'll know. Now we have to consult the clubs and see if there are people. If it's not today, it's tomorrow. Tomorrow, I think. Just give us half an hour, because it didn't surprise us, but we have to check it out. But unfortunately, we must wait a moment for Mr Jarosław Zieliński, because we have been given some acceleration because the point has fallen. We are still waiting for the rapporteur. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a last-minute announcement, and it will be up to date. We are waiting for the rapporteur. It seems to be within 10 minutes because we're just downloading it from outside the Sejm. The rapporteur will then report on this within 10-15 minutes. Therefore, to the next point concerning the first reading of the citizens' draft law on safe abortion, we will go about an hour. 19.55. We wait, there's nothing we can do. I can also announce a break, but it doesn't make sense, because you're just gonna be here in ten minutes, and if there's less traffic, it's gonna be in eight minutes, so I just wish you a nice wait. [[Voice from the hall: Enjoy your evening.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we already know. The session will be resumed in ten-eighths. The point that is currently on the schedule will be the first to be considered. The next item, the issue of the abortion law, starts at hours. 20, which means we still have a 10-minute break. I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application of the private prosecutor Józef Wojciechowski, represented by Katarzyna Witkowska's attorney dated 15 July 2020, as corrected on 24 August 2020, to the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Jacek Żalk (print No 2319). I would like to ask Mr Jarosław Zieliński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u482	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present a report from the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity Committee on the application of the private prosecutor Józef Wojciechowski, represented by Katarzyna Witkowska's attorney on 15 July 2020, as corrected on 24 August 2020, for the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Jacek Żalk. The request for consideration to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee was addressed by the Marshal of the Sejm on the basis of an article. 7c paragraph. 1b Act of 9 May 1996 on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs Committee considered this request at its meeting on 7 June 2022. The private prosecutor was offended and found that Mr Jacek Żalek had committed a violation of his personal property through media statements in 2019. In his speech, the private prosecutor Mr Józef Wojciechowski also questioned the scope of the parliamentary immunity, believing that those actions by Mr Jack Żalk, who received as a violation of his personal property, were not protected by the scope of the parliamentary immunity. The Commission also considered a request by a private prosecutor to hold a committee meeting under Article. Article 156 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, i.e. excluding the transparency of proceedings before the committee. The point was that the sitting should be closed and held in a properly private manner. The Commission, after hearing the expert at the Sejm Analysis Office, considered that there was no justification for this procedure and that there were no provisions which required the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure in proceedings before the committee. The Commission also listened to the statement by Ms Katarzyna Witkowska, a private prosecutor's representative, who supported the request of 15 July 2020 and 24 August 2020. In the vote, the Commission decided to submit to the High Sejm a proposal to reject Mr Józef Wojciechowski's application for consent by the Sejm to the criminal liability of Mr Jacek Żalk. The outcome of the vote was clear, because for eight people participating in the vote, seven voted against this proposal and one Member voted in favour of this proposal. Therefore, Mr Marshal, I am now submitting to the High Sejm a proposal from the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee to reject the application of the private prosecutor Józef Wojciechowski to hold Jack Żalk criminally liable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u483	Thank you very much, sir. I remind you that the Sejm, according to the article. Article 133 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall examine the committee's report by listening only to the rapporteur. The Member concerned shall also have the right to speak. This report shall not be discussed. Is Mr Jacek Zalek in the room? There isn't. We will therefore proceed to the vote on this issue in the voting block. Ladies and gentlemen, next shift. Following Mr Braun's request, we have become a little confused. We will vote on this proposal. The voting block will start at 3 p.m. 9:15 p.m. After this vote, we will move on to the bill that Mr Braun blocked and then we will move on to matters relating to the proposals for the Act on abortion. I'm declaring a time-out. 9:15 p.m. and I promise you that at 9:00 p.m. 21.15 will begin voting block. Thank you. [[Voice from the O.R.: Which one?]] Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, [[Voice from the hall: But how long is the break?]] Miss, if there's a break by the hour. 21.15, it takes 1 hour 15 minutes, because we have an hour. 20. [[The voice from the courtroom: But before that, the marshal announced otherwise.]] Yeah, well, that's not what I announced, because we were waiting for a decision about when - or maybe today - this bill is supposed to be procedated. And just now it has been decided that all Members and all Members will be called to the voting block so that this bill will be proceded today. In order to bring all Members and all Members together, we must have some time so that everyone will just know, so 1 hour 15 minutes, as we think, will be the right time to get people out of town. [[Voice from the hall: And, Mr. Marshal, after the voting block, will we continue with the coal point?]] I'll say it again with pleasure. After the vote, we will proceed with this bill on which we will vote. Then, after this act, there will be a citizens' project. Then, after the civic project, there will be statements. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Thank you very much. Again, I apologize for the confusion, although I do know that I am sorry for Mr Braun. That's life. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 min. 57 hrs. 21 min 16]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u484	I'm reopening the session. I would like to ask you, Members, to take your seats. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law on specific arrangements for the protection of customers of certain solid fuels in view of the situation on the market for these fuels, print No 2361. After obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point to consider this report. In view of the proposal to apply Article in this case. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and hearing objections were raised in the discussion on the agenda for the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the three-minute statements on behalf of the groups. We will therefore resolve this matter in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of agreeing to the application of the Article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and hearing five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the wheels, he will raise his hand and press the button. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. 224 - for, 177 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government's draft law on specific arrangements for the protection of customers of certain solid fuels in view of the situation on the market for these fuels (prints Nos 2354 and 2361). I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee. Mr President, one minute's break from leaving the room by those who are not interested in this point. One minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 min. 19 hrs. 21 min 20]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u485	I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 9 of the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u486	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I present a report by the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets, print No 2361, on the Government's draft law on specific arrangements to protect the customers of certain solid fuels due to the situation on the market for these fuels, print No 2354. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets for first reading on 17 June 2022. The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets carried out the first reading and examination of this draft law at its meeting today. The aim of this project is to protect the customers of coal, those sellers who will sell coal at a price not higher than PLN 996,60 per tonne. The Act introduces compensation in the amount of no higher than PLN 1073,13 gross per tonne, specifies in detail how this compensation is to be paid. The compensation was allocated to the amount of PLN 3 billion. 15 amendments were tabled during the committee's work, of which the committee accepted 12 and rejected two. The committee therefore asks the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u487	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Kozanecka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak. You're welcome. Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Krzysztof Gadowski from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. Please, are you an envoy? It is, of course. You're welcome, sir. Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Necessary, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u488	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In autumn and winter, there will be a shortage of coal. Prices are likely to go into space, and they're already in space. The government's assurances about increasing the extraction of Polish coal can be put between fairy tales, because Polish mines already fedre to the max and by autumn there is simply no chance to squeeze much more of them. Our import capacity has certain technical limitations, and we expect very many countries to fight for these ships, so these insanely optimistic announcements about the scale of imports should not be particularly believed either. In fact, you should have thought about it last fall, last fall, when the government already knew that there would be a war in Ukraine, that Russia would invade Ukraine, and could have predicted the consequences of this fact. Meanwhile, we are in a situation where Poland was in the vanguard of those countries that demanded severe sanctions on Russia, and very well, and at the same time it has not prepared itself for these sanctions. That's very bad. We would be in a much better situation if not for the stubbornness of the government, if not for the hysterical anti-European charge of Solidarna Polska, because then perhaps we would already have a tight social contract for mining, notified in the European Union, because then money from KPOs would already work, which could also serve the safety of Poles, which they care about in the context of the coming winter. The list of omissions and omissions that make us dependent on imported coal and fossil fuels in general is very long. That's for example. blocking wind energy on land, which lasts decades of powerlessness in nuclear energy. If not for this, we could already bet heavily on electrification of heating, on heat pumps, for the benefit of Polish wallets, for the Polish economy and for the planet. But time will never go back. It is what it is. It is all the more important to protect Polish families from energy poverty, from spending the winter in unheated apartments, in unheated houses. What Poles fear now poses a very real threat. Unfortunately, the law proposed by the government will not help much here. What's the government's plan? The government's plan is to pay the salesmen $1,000. PLN up to 1 t of coal, sold for 1 000. zł. Only that imported coal already costs 2500 PLN, so in the context of this imported coal it is not a business. In addition, these subsidies will take place long after the sale itself, so if this were to actually be a scheme addressed to non-State-owned traders, it would not be any interest. If now 1 t of coal in the port costs approx. 2 000. zł, it simply does not make sense to use this program unless some much cheaper source of coal from imports is planned, which we do not know about, and the government, which is very fond of bragging, did not tell us this secret. So the key question remains, who is this program for? The answer seems clear. It is simply a law with a fixed price for Polish coal. So the Polish coal, whose mining costs several hundred zlotys, will be sold for 1,000. PLN with a surcharge of 1 000 zł. So it would certainly be much cheaper to deal with speculative prices of Polish coal, but this was the solution chosen by the government. This is certainly a very profitable solution for state-owned companies or worse, and this is a real concern for various smart guys. Because for some reason the government does not come with an open pinhole and does not say: listen, we want a fixed price for Polish coal, we want to pay for its sales and distribution, we have such a plan for distribution, so that these prices do not amount to 2500. The government in the explanatory memorandum tells of some imported coal, while nothing in these stories agrees. However, Polish coal is not enough anyway. This programme is set, has a financing of PLN 3 billion, which with the full funding of PLN 1070 is enough for less than a million farms, which is several times less than the needs. The rest will have to buy at the market price, which is already reaching 3,000. zł. So this isn't the solution to the problem, and anyway, it's a small part of the problem. The question is, what's going on with the heat plants, because in cities, the heating plants that sell water to the system heat, they're already buying coal five times more expensive. What can we expect? That central heating bills are going to be five times more expensive, or are these heat plants going down? Because that's what the government hasn't included in its programs so far. The same was true with regard to gas and then some residents of the cooperative (the bell) received several times higher bills. To conclude: the problem with this bill is mass, but the winter is coming. Any help will be for the weight of gold. Even as dubious and lame as that bill. Therefore, we will vote in favour, but responsibility for implementing this programme and for not realising real aid for all Polish citizens who are threatened with energy poverty falls on the government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u489	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Andrzej Grzyb, the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u490	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Speaking on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, the Polish Coalition, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, I would like to state that this law on special solutions, which protects consumers, households from the consequences of the cost, in the case of fuels used for heating and also the use of kitchen shafts on farms, is needed. The question is, should she be the one she was submitted to? This is a completely different question, but this support is necessary in our understanding of the current situation. Because first of all, these fuels didn't just drain, they also didn't have the ability to purchase them. And this causes the greatest concern of Poles and Poles. This problem does not only concern individual farms, but also institutions, in particular those institutions that we could qualify for the social economy sector, i.e. DPSs, WTZs, schools, but also skylights, often run by NGOs. They also have a similar problem. I have also once signalled this problem here in this Chamber, namely the issue of gardening farms under shelter. These people had a really big problem with the supply and introduction of this production, which was at the end of last winter, especially in March. The government's project to support individual customers, consumers of solid fuels by financing the sale of coal and other solid fuels is intended to help purchase this fuel, reduce costs. But on the other hand, he's also so proposed that whether or not it's an apartment 30-, 40-, 50-metre, or individual house, only 3 tonnes of coal are to be co-financed. Unfortunately, there is a variety of consumption or up to 3 tonnes of coal. Not every apartment is also equipped with gas for this use in the kitchen, network or propane-butane. On the other hand, this solution is absolutely ad hoc, but excludes from this support the family, which by the date of entry into force of the Act acquired or will acquire fuel for heating. We will therefore propose an appropriate amendment. It excludes from the support of the family that have heating installations also for solid fuels but other than hard coal derivatives, e.g. Wood pellets. We consider that if solid fuels, it is also solid fuel, but it is different from fossil fuels. In addition, the Act introduces a solution and support limited by a limit of PLN 3 billion, still divided into two tranches, by the end of the year and in January 2023. As I said, 3 t for a single-family cottage is not enough, however it can be sufficient for a farm, e.g. a single apartment in a community or a housing cooperative. But of course, all of this is also related to the activities of entrepreneurs, on which additional obligations are imposed. Not only sales, invoice, settlement in accordance with the rules, but also collection of additional documents, for example copies of the declarations that we make for the Central Issue Register of Buildings. But also a commitment from entrepreneurs, who are to inform about e.g. Clean air programme. They say the documents in this case will be provided by the government. The amount, as I said, is PLN 3 billion, which - I am counting with the amount declared PLN 1073 - makes it for about 931 thousand. households, and we have 5 million in Poland. 1700 thousand. has so far made a declaration to the central register. So the question is, are we really going to run out of support in this particular case? Here we need target solutions, namely to extend the connection to collective heat supply wherever possible. Today, during this discussion, I had e.g. signals that in some places there are such technical possibilities, but the connection is refused due to the so-called. efficiency. You'd have to do something about it. Similarly, the issue of promoting prosumerism, development, on the one hand, of renewable energy sources or heat pumps, or investment in biogas production, i.e. sustainable indigenous sources (The Bell) of energy generation, which could help in this situation. Mr. Marshal, I submit amendments on behalf of the PSL Parliamentary Club - Coalition Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u491	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u492	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The economy of the Soviet Union was so tragic that this country, lying on the most fertile black people in the world, having their largest area, had to import grain. The PiS economy is so tragic that Poland, being a power and lying on coal deposits, including those we are not yet extracting, is now at risk of energy poverty. [[Applause]] He's in a situation where people can't buy coal today, and we don't know if it's going to be for the winter, and if it is, at what prices. Yes, this is your economy. You promised to protect the mines. You've been shutting them down for two years. You promised to stop with the European Union's climate policy. For 3 years - in 2020, in 2021, this year - you have made new commitments that the Union imposes on Poland, destroying mining and energy, destroying the welfare of Polish families. You promised to build a nuclear power plant so you could carry out an energy transformation. You've been in charge for seven years. Nothing happened to this case. You promised you'd end up with Russian coal. And what did you do for seven years? You made Poland even more dependent on Russian coal imports, and then when the war broke out, you made a decision to give it up overnight, and then you assured the Poles that you would provide coal at good prices. There's no carbon, and we don't know if it's gonna be for the winter. That's the truth. You promised that Poland would rise from its knees in this area. You lied, you cheated. What Sasin was saying out of that pulpit today was such an insolent lie, such turning the cat's tail, that I guess it wasn't much bigger in this room in this term of office. It was a lie in the face. Shame on you. Shame on you because you really are diggers of the Polish power of energy, which could and can be based on coal, that is the truth, and today we are a country with energy poverty. Ladies and gentlemen! What you've presented in this bill are import carbon cards. These are PRL carbon sheets, and it's imported carbon when we're lying on coal deposits. We're going in the opposite direction. We have our amendments and legislation - Cheap coal we want to free the mines from CIT, we want to release the production of coal from VAT for 3 years, we want to completely exempt it from excise duty, because coal is not a luxury good. We want to keep an extra 500 PLN per month in each Pole's pocket, the one who smokes coal. We are going in the opposite direction - not to pay for imported coal, but to reject EU climate policy and national extraction. And in this direction we should go, not in the direction which (the bell) designates Morawiecki to you on your knees in Brussels. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u493	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, near Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u494	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! You imposed an embargo on Russian coal and went on vacation. If we hadn't raised this problem in time, in good time, in good time, you'd probably have woken up in September. Only then would there be a problem. By introducing an embargo on Russian coal, you promised people that you would bring coal from other countries to Poland: South Africa, Australia, Venezuela, Colombia, Kazakhstan, and the mass of these countries was exchanged. If there is no coal in Poland, there will be nothing to pay for it and this bill will not be right at all. So, first of all, get to work, because instead of solving people's problems, you've been taking care of yourselves for months and arguing about obvious things, such as whether Poland should be a law-abiding state or a lawless state. Coal prices in Poland are so high today, because coal mining has been reduced for years and new clean energy sources have not been built, so consumption has not been reduced. In this place, power simply made us, each year and every month, increasingly dependent on imports of coal from Russia. Unfortunately, it is difficult for you to accept the truth. There's only one way to get back to normal. For now, you have to give people a lifeline, and that wheel should be either bringing coal from other countries, or increasing extraction, as far as it is. in a short time possible, and in the long term you simply have to bet on energy transformation accelerated, at the speed of the sprinter - wind, sun, biogas plants, geothermal sources, heat pumps. This is what we should invest money in today, this is really a Polish state right, this is the way to rebuild our energy sovereignty, as well as putting on people's health. The bill is a legal piece written on the knee. On this bill the government additionally, it turned out, there is no money, because in its original wording he wanted it to be financed by entrepreneurs for nine months. This has evolved somewhat under the influence of our amendments. The payments were originally due at the end of the first quarter. That's not enough. You've calculated it at less than 20%. people who still heat their houses with coal. If more households choose to benefit from these provisions, benefit from this refund, the refund will be extremely small and will not affect the fact that coal prices will be lower, but you will simply pass the cost of financing this refund on to businesses. What does that mean? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That no normal private businessman would join the program. It will only be joined by the companies of the State Treasury, so we should in principle call this law not the Coal Price Refund Act, but the State Treasury Compensation Act, which you want to subsidize in this way.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u495	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u496	Mr. Marshal, I'm almost done. The bill doesn't solve two fundamental problems. Firstly, it is the whole sphere of the economy, which also operates partly on the basis of coal and is not subsidised. There's not gonna be any way to solve her problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u497	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u498	And the problem in the gas market, which is also growing due to the lack of a contract with the Norwegians.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u499	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u500	As near Poland 2050, we are making amendments for which we will fight in further procession. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u501	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Andrzej Rozenk, near PPS. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u502	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What you're doing today is patching up a leaky boat. Of course, when the boat sinks, it needs to be patched. The only question is, why is this boat leaking? What have you done for seven years to help Poles get out of energy poverty? You didn't do anything, nothing at all. What have you done to make more renewable energy sources in Poland and less fossil combustion? You didn't do anything about it, just nothing at all. You actually pulled us back on RES because you blocked the development of wind power. You spend several dozen billion zlotys on an idiotic investment in a meadow near Baranów. This is what you can afford, and you can't afford to offer Poles some sensible initiative concerning e.g. retention, retention of water in Poland, which is decreasing. Why am I talking about this on this occasion? Because on that occasion, you could bet on small water plants. But that's it. It's too complicated for you. It's better to put a pier in the Baranów, which will serve no one, than to make a meaningful project for the citizens. Today the whole world is going towards RES, and you're talking about digging coal. Burning coal, listen, in the 21st century, this is pure barbarism. You all know that. It's barbaric. This is something we should leave to our children, our grandchildren. There's an alternative. The alternative is very simple. This is prosumer energy. Today we live at a time when Poland is threatened from the East and energy is a strategic element of Polish statehood. So why don't you bet on distributed energy, which is prosumer energy, which is the hardest thing to destroy? Why are you buying piers? Why do you invest in things that don't make any sense and our children, our grandchildren, anything smart? They won't? They'll only cause problems, damage the environment and climate disaster. Why are you leading Poland to the 19th century instead of the 22nd century? What's going on with this government? You're still gonna tell people that you have coal for 200 years? [[Voice from the room: We do.]] I heard that from you. Where's the coal if you're still taking it from Putin? Where's the coal for 200 years? [[Voice from the room: deposit.]] I'm going to ask you again about your energy diversification programmes. Where are the programs? What did you do with the gas? Who came up with the idea to prevent Poland from supplying more gas through a terminal rented from the United States, which could have been - I am talking about a swimming terminal - connected in Gdansk? Who torpedoed it in this government? What happened here? Who cares? I'm asking. Maybe somebody will answer. Around the PPS, of course, will support patching this hole, but I'll tell you honestly: shame for what you're doing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm just embarrassed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u503	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to sign up for questions? If not, I'm closing the list. 38 people checked in. I'm setting the time of questioning - maximum 1 minute. I invite Mr Andrzej Adamczyk from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? [[Voice from the room: He didn't make it.]] Thank you very much. I invite Mr Tomasz Głogowski from the Civic Coalition. [[The voice from the hall: I'm the one who can take Tom.]] Oh, no, I don't think that's gonna happen. Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Beata Maciejewska from the parliamentary club of the Left. I take it something was wrong, right? Name. [[Voice from the room:...but the party agrees.]] [[Voice from the room: No, it doesn't.]] Good. I'm sorry about who wrote it. Your Member has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u504	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I agree with this statement that we keep pouring coal into the furnace and burning taxpayers' money in these kilns and in this inefficient, bad energy policy of Poland, which you, or Minister Tchórzewski, are excellent representatives of. [[We were right.]] It's about this bad policy, building Ostrołęka, drowning money in it, etc., etc. Today we are waiting for the Polish government to finally stand on the side of Polish and Polish interests, on the side of those energy sources which are accessible to citizens and do not put in the pockets of Obajtek, do not put in the pockets of various large state companies, but give energy freedom to Kowalski and Kowalska, Nowak and Nowicka, each Pole. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can't do this all the time. You're still making more patches in a bucket, just all the time. You put the money in the oven and burn it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u505	Thank you very much, madam.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u506	At our expense, at the expense of the environment, people and future generations.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u507	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Grzegorz Braun from the Confederate circle. Please, please - there was a mistake concerning Mr Adamczyk's name and party - enter it after Mr Grzegorz Braun. And I would like to invite you. [[Mr Marshal, the Member mentioned me and did not really say. Ad vocem. I'm entitled to ad vocem.]] Okay, but I think maybe we'll do ad vocem later, 'cause there'll be 30 votes. [[Voice from the room: The human fleeting memory, Mr. Marshal.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, let's just remember one thing: we are sitting until noon today. 3. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] That's very good. There are only people who are sick or something. Remember that. Here you go, short ad vocem. It was a statement in the correction mode. You can't hear me, sir, unfortunately, because the speaker has turned off. Hello, I kindly inform you that you have made an appointment - I am speaking to you, Mr President - with me for a short time, in the mode of correction. You took two minutes. That's what I'm saying for the future. Mr Braun. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u508	You really have to be careful here, because what the dumbest thing to come up with or what to say with a joke is a united right-wing lie turning into reality. When I asked from this tribune how you'd value a chrust + beam at Orlen stations - soon to be taken quite free for holders of a COVID passport - I didn't expect you to come up with a carbon card design. This is a ready-made scenario for a movie, but there are no such ironists, satirists who would reach into this reality and show Polish viewers some kind of Bear 2.0 , turbo+. The question is, if the Germans are announcing that they will open mines, do we have a plan of this kind? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And since brown coal smokes the best in Germany, is there even such a concept that in Poland it works for Polish citizens? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u509	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Rafał Adamczyk, with a good name and a good party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u510	With a good catch, yeah. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The project concerns the protection of customers in households against a steep rise in the price of solid fuels. The voters in my district are asking a few questions. Should the price of coal increase on the household sales market remain at the level proposed in the Act? Will this amount continue to be fixed, unchanged for the ordinary Polish and Polish? Will a retail solution be introduced for households on existing commercial warehouses in individual municipalities? Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u511	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, near Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u512	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, today's situation is the result of 6 years of negligence in law and justice policy. Stop modernization and development of RES, basically complete wind power decommissioning, lack of effective modernization of energy networks... And it turned out that this coal, about which Law and Justice said it was Polish strategic raw material, was really Russian coal and today it was simply missing from the embargo. In addition, the government turned on the green light for such a coal mafia that drains Polish wallets and tries to build its position on hard work of miners. Minister! I have these questions. First of all, what about the system heat? What about the raises for housing cooperatives? 'Cause they're definitely gonna be. How much more will they pay for (the bell) heating the residents of the cooperative? Where will Poland import gas from? You're talking about the north pipe, the Norwegian pipe, but we all know there's no contract, so here's the question: where's the gas coming from? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u513	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Joanna Senyshin from the PPS wheel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u514	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation of households is increasingly difficult. In May, inflation was 13.9% The summit is scheduled for August. Citizens are wondering whether to pay their rent or send their child to extracurricular activities or buy medications, or if he can give up his leave. There's going to be a heating problem with the winter coming. In Poland there are about 4300 thousand. households using hard coal. They are to be able to purchase up to 3 tonnes of hard coal, briquette or pellets with an 80% content of hard coal per 996.60 PLN gross per tonne for their own use. The compensation of PLN 3 billion will be granted to those who will sell coal at a regulated price, of course from our taxes. But who exactly are you going to take and how much are you going to take? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u515	Thank you very much, madam. I invite Mr Janusz Kowalski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u516	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to the President of August 80 ¿ Bogusław Ziętki, Rafał Jedwabnego or Patryk Pieczce, precisely those unionists who were right and defending Polish coal, just like Solidarna Polska and Zbigniew Ziobro, because we said: let's not liquefy Polish mining, let's not sign the climate package in 2020, i.e. green deal. It is absolutely unacceptable to agree to tighten up the climate targets, as today the European Union has tightened up the EU ETS again, including transport and some of the construction. [[Voice from the room: 14 mines closed.]] This shows, ladies and gentlemen, that one of the most important battles begins at the moment - the battle for energy sovereignty. And I promise all the unions from Katowice, Bełchatów, Turów and Lublin: we will fight for Polish coal and we will do everything to make the social contract cease to apply because it cannot be that we have Polish coal and we import it from Colombia. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: The mines are closed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u517	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u518	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What happens in the fall, in the winter? Will there be warm water at home in Poland? Will there be electricity in the sockets? Or how many families are going to freeze in the winter or how many families are going to smoke garbage? But before I ask about coal, I want to say that Polish power plants have earned billions since the beginning of the year on energy sales. They produced more than they planned. They used up more raw materials. Effect? Simple - record low carbon stocks for winter and galloping coal prices. Who let that happen? Government? Is it true that we need 11 million tons of coal and the capacity of Polish ports is only 2 million tons per quarter? Where are you gonna get the coal? How much did you order? How you secured the Poles, because we know that the chrust+ program is not enough. Poles are afraid of autumn coal prices. Today 1 t costs 3,000. zł. That's an increase of 300%. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poles give up their vacations, seek a second job to collect fuel at galloping inflation, expensively, high rates of credit. How much are we gonna pay for the house heating in the fall? How much are you giving today? Three cards for three tons of coal? Why aren't you lowering your VAT? What about CIT? You've got an influence on that, too. What are you gonna do in the fall? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u519	Thank you very much, Member, for your vote. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u520	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have coal for 200 years - as the representatives of the PiS say. However, it will not be in Poland so that everyone will be able to go to the nearest coal warehouse and buy it as much as he wants, because only 3 t. The government assumed that economic operators would decide to sell coal below purchase costs, and for this group provided an amount of PLN 750 per tonne. On what basis did the government assume that by December 2022 the price of coal would not exceed PLN 1746? After all, on what basis does the government assume that private entrepreneurs will decide to lend coal sales? Finally, the most important question is: What does the government intend to do in a situation where only a small part of the difference in the purchase cost and the sale at the price of 996 PLN will be covered by the advance payment? What is the result of a surcharge of 3 tonnes of coal? And the last question is: How should those who have housing in (the bell) housing cooperatives feel and how will the payment be adjusted? And one last thing: it is good that Gierek built a port in Gdansk, because today at least you do not argue about who built the gasport, because coal from Colombia and Australia would not be delivered to Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u521	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u522	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If Gazprom had refused to sell fuel to Poland a year ago, it would have been a sanction for Poland. If we refuse to buy from Gazprom today, it is exactly the same sanction we imposed on ourselves. Unfortunately, the parliamentarians of democratic countries - pfu - elected pfu - have adapted to their electoral level, i.e. idiots, and are unable to understand that it is the same. Russia currently sells twice as much fuel at three times higher prices and laughs at gayro. The Americans buy the same oil, and even more than a year ago and at prices much higher. The coal is exactly the same - the price of coal goes up and Russia laughs at us, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, you are the ones who are guilty of all this, but you were even worse! You were on your knees in front of Brussels! It was you (the bell) who gave way even more than they did! I'm afraid we have to do it. it's short: the privatisation of coal, the withdrawal from all EU programmes, the green order, the fight against global warming and so on and just get back to normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u523	Thank you very much, sir. I invite you, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, near Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u524	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Last Sunday, when it was so hot, Poland produced 60% energy from renewable sources with quite cheap installations, despite what Mr Tchórzewski said here, and we cannot say that we are a RES tycoon. Let's think about what we could achieve if the number of installations were a priority for the government, if we had energy networks after the renovation and professional energy stores ready to receive surplus from these of course larger installations, because today we don't really need them. Instead, we are wondering today where to bring coal to Poland. This has led to the last 15 years of neglect in the energy transition - 7 years is yours. Minister, when will the RES Act change, which will release new installations (the Bell) and enable them to be built? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What do the windmills have for coal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u525	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There it is. Come on in, ma'am. [[Thank you.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u526	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask the Minister to remind you, too, from the opposition, that this is the current situation caused by the pandemic, as well as by the invasion of Ukraine and the sanctions imposed, in fact, has led us to have such high coal prices now. We will be mining coal, our Polish coal, whether you like it or not. And I'll remind you that this is the country that closed down the mines. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You tried to close it, and you did it together with the European Union. I'll also remind you of the dialogue you had with the miners using rubber bullets. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Yes, sir.]] Minister! Please remind the opposition and tell us how important this law is, how necessary this law is, how many individuals and households will benefit from this law and what criteria (the bell) all those recipients will have to meet in order to obtain these subsidies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u527	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Are you Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski? There isn't. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club... Remind me, sir. [[Left.]] Left. You're welcome. Thank you very much, sir. Even though you're a member of the Left, you won't get any extra time either. Mr Michał Grammarka, near Poland 2050. Michael, you're welcome. Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Decoration, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? [[There it is, there it is.]] There it is. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u528	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! When I look at the opposition, I see a hypocrite festival that has memory problems. We could use, I don't know, a lot of nuts to eat, because if I hear that suddenly the Left, the Civic Platform and those screaming people in the room are talking about coal... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mrs. Member! Are you suddenly defending coal today? Are you defending the Polish family? Are you defending a Polish retiree? [[Applause]] Oh, for God's sake, you wanted to give me a price. You're talking about windmills, you're talking about photovoltaic panels? You just don't understand one thing, it's not a guarantee... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] That's exactly what you want to buy. [[Voices from the room: 7 years.]] Renewable energy sources do not guarantee heat, do not guarantee that there will be electricity, light, and do not guarantee that it will be cheap. [[Some Members chant: 7 years! Seven years! Seven years!]] You just don't get it. This is a question of education, it is a matter of not being able to bet on Poles, on Europe, but on the German scenario, Energiewende. Really, pick another district. Maybe Schleswig-Holstein is better for you, maybe Munich? Go there, not from the Polish land (the bell), because you do not represent the interests of Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u529	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to speak because the Minister insulted me.]] Okay, but did he insult you by your name? I don't think so. [[Excuse me?]] Your name didn't come up. [[But it was clearly directed at me.]] No, ma'am. [[I'm asking you to apologize to the Minister.]] But, miss, there won't be such a formula. [[But I'm really asking you to apologize to me.]] [[Voice from the hall: But for what?]] But your name didn't come up. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The charge...]] Ma'am, ladies and gentlemen, can I say something? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[You insulted me in such a way that you deprive me of my right to Polishness.]] I have a request for you to make a motion to the ethics committee on this matter. I invite Mr Aleksander Mishalski from the Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Marek Dyduch from the parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in. Thank you very much. Mr Mariusz Gosek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u530	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is hard to listen because Mr Rozenek and other parliamentarians care so much about RES. Renewable energy sources are not stable energy sources. Atom, gas and Polish national welfare, coal... Take care of the Polish coal. [[Politics is unstable.]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, look at the politics of Germany and the Netherlands. [[Voice from the hall: Sweden had blackout.]] Look at these Dutch windmills going bankrupt today. Look at Robert Habeck, the Green Party German. What did he do? He said we should get back to coal. [[Applause]] They're your favorite Germans. Then listen to Germany and Frans Timmermans from Holland... [[40,000 people die from coal.]] ...that Frans Timmermans, who was responsible for the green order, for this sick climate policy that has led to today's energy crisis throughout the European Union, including in Poland. [[Applause]] If you don't want to listen to the Polish government, listen to Frans Timmermans. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Netherlands is returning to coal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u531	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Małgorzata Płępek from the Civic Coalition. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome. Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u532	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm very impressed, dear opposition. I am really impressed by how much concern you are about Polish coal. I remember just a few months ago the future president of the Republic of Poland, who was eliminated by her colleagues in pre-runs, Marshal Kidawa-Błońska said that Turów had to be closed when the European Commission pointed out that. [[Applause]] I remember very well another candidate, the future president of Simon the Holownia, who spoke about dirty coal energy. [[Applause]] Today you're talking about increasing the extraction. Ladies and gentlemen, it was you who urged the Polish government to close these mines and conventional energy as soon as possible. [[Voice from the hall: Talk about securing Poland and Polish houses for winter.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as this bill is concerned, today we are being watched by Poles in various parts of the country, also in my constituency. They're waiting for this bill, waiting for that price of coal. It's a very important bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question: Will this also be extended to network heating and residents of housing cooperatives?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u533	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u534	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think Jarosław Kaczyński's dream of expensive and return cards is being fulfilled. Yeah, they come back with carbon cards: 3 t per household. [[Applause]] The problem is that it takes 5, 6 tons to heat the house and 3 tons to keep the temperature at 12 degrees. I understand you can follow Gryglas' advice, buy yourself a blanket and get cold. And he'll survive this winter somehow. But that's not the point. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a resident of the mining community. In my municipality there is a perimeter of Piast and Janina mining plants. Do you know what the price of coal is today, peas in the mine? 811 PLN in Janina, 852 PLN in Piast. What do you give my neighbors, the people of these municipalities? A 20% raise. [[Applause]] It can't be like this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What right do they have to bear this price? These people want to buy goods at prices that currently apply, not twice as expensive. [[Voice from the hall: Let them buy it.]] They don't buy, they don't buy. I would like to tell you that this situation has not surprised us this year. I wrote an interpellation last year. I have an answer from Minister Pyzik, who writes that there is no coal, that everything goes down on the trunk. I'm asking you where the money went from selling coal through the Material Reserve Agency. Where's the money? [[Applause]] Why didn't the reserves be recreated when you knew there was no carbon left on the compound that winter was going on, that there was a big demand? Why were you doing business with the Russians? You imported 60 million tons of coal from Russia for six years. I can't believe you guys are so naive that you wanted to finance Putin. I rather believe that you and Putin have done business together - yes, since 2013. - because you had a political and financial interest in it, because you're so smart at that money that even from Putin, you enjoyed the money very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u535	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u536	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish Coal Group has been selling coal at the price of 850 PLN per tonne for several months. And this coal goes to the intermediaries who are selling this coal for $4,000 at the moment. PLN per ton. Jarosław Kaczyński went for power in 2015, promising among others. mastery of the coal mafia. This mob has grown to such a level that right now... Why can't you handle a simple situation? Why does the Polish Coal Group not reserve a margin for which coal can be sold? You can't control the fact that it's being bought out by bot brokers. This is total corruption, total pathology. And that's what you tolerate. Why? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This whole coal-card design thing that's up to $4,000. For a ton, it won't function. Why don't you put in the margins? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u537	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Piotr Polak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u538	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The bill expected, compensation and the possibility of buying coal at the price of 966 PLN also as expected and necessary to all those who heat their houses with the same solid fuel as the law says. However, Minister, I would like to ask you about those who heat and use solid wood pellets in their kilns. I would like to ask whether these inhabitants will be able to benefit from the help of this law and whether an entrepreneur who produces such solid fuel only from wood waste or other waste, even if agricultural, will be able to submit an appropriate application and benefit from this compensation of less than PLN 750. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u539	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u540	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By errors and omissions of the energy policy of this government in the winter 2 million Polish families will face a choice: food or fuel. Don't humiliate them yet - the search for ghost coal at a spectral price that won't be on the shelves. Because this bill, though intended to lower prices, is in fact a collection of godly wishes. For entrepreneurs it is too high a risk and a small profit. In addition, this law does not differentiate between those who cannot afford fire and those who can afford it. As a result, it will benefit a few strong ones, and those who really need it will not find it. What if these 3 billion PLN were allocated to green system solutions for families at risk of poverty, just as Habeck of the Greens does? This is why since 2016 we import green energy from Germany because it is cheaper. [[Voice from the room: Habeck returns to coal.]] If we were to do this by spending money on heating houses, on heat pumps powered by photovoltaics, we would secure for 3 billion PLN for 20 years not for one winter a city the size of Konin, Siedlec or Nowy Sącz. So, ladies and gentlemen, system solutions or wishful thinking - what will you choose? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Please move to Germany.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u541	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Ivanik, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u542	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since November, the Government of Law and Justice has known that Russia will attack Ukraine, so you also knew that there will be sanctions when it comes to raw materials from Russia. You also knew that there would be 8 million tons in Poland. For more than six months, you have been able to prepare the Polish state to download coal, if not from Russia, from other parts of our globe. You knew, and you really did it in June -- because you woke up after our protests -- a bill that wouldn't change anything. You'll wake up in December and see that this bill doesn't change anything. [[Voice from the room: Want to bet?]] I'll tell you more. Are you saying you're gonna open up new deposits? In the Polish Mining Group your vice president said that in order to open new deposits, you need to spend 200 million PLN. You don't have them, they don't have them either. What's more, you're assuming you'll add 3 billion zlotys. As we divide it (the bell) by your surcharge, it turns out that there will actually be only 3 million tons of coal. So as much as the Polish ports can accept it. The only thing you've done is there's another deal under your window, a coal mafia. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: She has existed for 30 years, quietly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u543	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Bąk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u544	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This difficult situation we are talking about today is caused by economic banditism, which comes from the East, not blamed by Poland. You have to look at the facts. The Government of Law and Justice responds immediately. [[Voices from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] He reacted this way in the case of fuels, reacted this way in the case of gas and now responds in the case of coal. Great respect and recognition should be given to the rule of law and justice. This is a sensitive government. for the needs of society. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: What needs of society?]] Society sees that. I don't want to hear about the return to power of POs and PSLs who haven't heard anything from society. There were endless protests here, and you didn't respond. Today we have a government that secures resources and meets the expectations of society as a whole, especially the poorest. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u545	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u546	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Isn't this bill a promise without covering? Right now people are saying, "No, we're not gonna buy coal, which maybe is in storage, 'cause it's gonna be $1,000. zł and we will definitely buy it in September, October. And what if they don't buy that coal in September and October because it turns out there's no carbon? The calculations you're doing when it comes to helping people are ridiculous, you can see that after today. Here, yesterday, Minister Grandpa said that there would be 750 PLN of help for the entrepreneur that is enough. And already this afternoon you say it will be 1073,13 PLN. I wonder how you guys calculated that you guys still turned 13? You're very thorough, but what's going on? These prices are calculated on the basis of ARA. The price of ARA in March was this, in April it is this, and in September it will perhaps be much, much bigger. So? Is that enough money? It's not enough (the bell), it's probably not enough. What will be the cost-effectiveness of those who want to import this coal and deliver it to those people who count on it and can count on it as a result of this bill? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u547	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Buj, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u548	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act specifies that the entity responsible for payment of compensation is the clearing manager. An application for compensation shall be submitted by the trader at one time from 1 January 2023 under the risk of losing the right to compensation. The application submitted after 20 January 2023 remains pending. Does this mean that the trader will sell fuel from the date of entry into force of the Act and that the settlement and payment of compensation will be received by 31 March 2023? That's what the bill says. The entrepreneur will therefore expect to settle for up to 8 or 9 months. This indicates that a private small enterprise is not going to join the project, because who can afford such a long loan period? Perhaps you can dispel my doubt. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u549	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u550	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Attention, attention! People of Jastrzębie, Rydultów, Wodzisław Śląski, Zor!
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u551	Let me help you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u552	The PiS government is responding, raising the price of coal in the Marcel mine. Price of peas - 797, today - 996... [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] ...in the Rydultowy mine - from 776,13 to 996. [[Voice from the room: Kaczyński. Moravian.]] Eco peas in bulk in Chwałowice - the price today 865, raises you to 996.60 PLN. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: And 60 cents.]] Minister! Why does the PiS government raise the price for Poles today, in a crisis? Why should the people of my constituency pay more than 200 PLN per tonne? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room:...to correct a few words.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u553	Thank you very much. Barbara Dolniak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u554	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poles ask themselves: why? Why didn't the rulers react last autumn, seeing and knowing what was happening, and what could happen? Good governance is the ability to use knowledge to prevent crises. What is the reason why the government works not by planning system actions, but by putting out fires? Let me remind you that approximately 3 million Poles use coal to heat their homes, who are exposed to stress caused by fear of what awaits them in autumn and winter, as well as from horror spending. Prime Minister! Knowledge must be used in the interests of the citizens, not of their own rulers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u555	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u556	Mr. Marshal! I am in such a strange situation because my question is for the rapporteur, and he is not in the Chamber, so I do not know if I can ask this question because... [[Voice from the room: You can't do that.]] [[Voice from the room: You can, you can.]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Ask them to someone else.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u557	It's up to you, but you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u558	Good. Mr. Marshal! I would like the company of the PiS Parliamentary Club to give Minister Tchórzewski a few things. I would like to ask how it is possible that a Member, the Minister of Energy, who is responsible for an unprecedented scam per billion, was elected to be rapporteur for this bill. Let's go over it. The Supreme Audit Chamber estimated that 1300 million were irretrievable losses due to the construction of the coal block in Ostrołęka C. I would like to say very clearly that this was supposed to be a coal plant for Russian coal and today this matter must be finally clarified. I would also like to say that Minister Tchórzewski (Dzwonek) said: this is supposed to be the largest investment in eastern Poland for 30 years. We have been with Mr Ionski lately in Ostrołęka. You know what we saw? Empty field. This is a scam of a billion, for which Minister Tchórzewski is responsible, who will probably have a motion to the prosecutor's office filed by the Supreme Chamber of Control in a moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u559	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Joński, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. I do not know why I was thinking that if Mr Szczerba is, he will be and will be Mr Joński. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: They're together. They're always together.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u560	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! And I was wondering why Minister Tchórzewski left this room when he saw on the board when we were taking the floor. Well, ladies and gentlemen, 1,300 million. Each Polish family paid for this big scam, for Ostrołęka, which was not created, for the largest supposed coal power plant 200 PLN. It was then that Jarosław Kaczyński, before the election, came and said that it would be completed that the predecessors could not. Beata Szydło was coming, Andrzej Duda was also coming. He said it would be built. Minister Tchórzewski gave his word, stabbed three times in a shovel and told us that 290 coal wagons would come there daily, of course from Russia. First, the president was the man who pulled coal from Russia, pulled almost 800,000. t coal. Later he was arrested, so the president was the catechist, who was the last president, because (The bell) pylons were destroyed very quickly and today after Ostrołęka was only sand. 1,300 million. How can such a man have the audacity to come to this room and accuse anything of opposition? [[Applause]] I didn't come here to ask questions, just to say that both this man and the others who put their hand to it will face an independent prosecution after winning elections, because there can be no agreement that public money is burned out, thrown out in the sand, made by PiS politicians, because there were no cases, in this company in Ostrołęka, there were people with a PiS card, and there is no 1300 million, it was issued again. Today I'm telling people you're going to build the biggest gas plant. That's what you're gonna do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u561	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u562	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! President Andrzej Duda said that Poland will have enough coal for 200 years, and 35 years will have enough cheap coal. Meanwhile, after 7 years of PiS government in Poland, there is a shortage of coal, and you regulate this cheap coal. One of the most profitable mines in Poland is the mine in Lublin, Bogdanka, where 66% Enea's shares are owned by a state-owned energy company, but not long ago, because a few days ago, on 18 June, a letter of intent was signed to take over Bogdanka by the State Treasury by the end of 2023. My question, Minister, is very specific: What is the purpose of this transaction? Why are you taking over Bogdanka? Are you going to close the windows in Stefanów and Nadrybie? Do you want to reduce jobs? Do you want to sell it to Western capital? I ask you to answer these questions because people in Bogdanka, the whole neighborhood (the bell), live from this mine. I can't imagine putting a stick in a well-functioning mechanism, and you guys are. [[Applause]] [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Privatise.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u563	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u564	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If people get cold in the winter, they'll charge you for it. The bill is absolutely absurd. Coal at 996 PLN, state price, limit of 3 t. It's impossible to do. We don't have enough Polish coal. We've only got two months. People buy coal already in August. Once again, the government is deceiving Polish society. This will cause panic and speculation. What about the heat plants? What about gas heating? What about oil heating, wood pellets? It also generates higher costs. We've had our goods and cards regulated before. This is the return to the history of the Polish People's Republic. What's it gonna end with? We remember that, it'll end in social unrest. It reminds me of the commune and headlines in the newspapers: citrus fruits have already sailed from Cuba to Poland, we will have oranges for Christmas. Shame and shame. [[Applause]] This farce must be stopped. Give up your resignations. You can't handle the economy. People won't warm up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u565	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Saluga, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u566	Minister! Where's the coal you promised? Mamit, you lie, you cheat Poles, you cheat that Polish mines will take him out, and you've closed 14 mines. Yes, you've closed 14 mines in the last seven years. You promised you'd replace imported coal. You have made Poland dependent on imported coal. Where is he now? I've asked that once before, Minister. Where's the coal contract? What kind of ships are going? What kind of tonnage? What ports do they go to? How long before it's reloaded? Where will the wagons be taken to deliver coal to coal stores? And finally, how much is this coal going to cost? You promise Poles, you mamite them with cheap coals of 996 PLN, and today in my mine in Jaworzno, in Sobieski, coal costs 811 PLN, which means you raise the price by 20%. It's just a scandal, one big scam. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Answer: When, what ships, what ports will the promised coal enter? Answer me. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: To Murmanska.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u567	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u568	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! For the last seven years, 14 mines have been closed by the PiS. 60 billion from CO-emissions [[Voice from the room: Coal+.]] Since November this year. Did you know there could be an attack on Russia on Ukraine, and what? The Prime Minister bought bonds in December and secured himself, but did not secure Poles in the matter of coal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u569	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u570	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Polish energy is black as coal, because our energy is dependent on coal in 70%. One of the first things you've ruined since the beginning of your reign was wind energy. If you hadn't stopped the windmills for seven years, today Poles and Poles would be much safer. Instead, you put us on a Russian carbon addiction, and now you're advising people to collect chrust in the woods. Today you are proposing subsidies to buy coal, which will not solve the problem of high prices, and in times of warming the climate is simply adding gasoline to the fire. It's extremely irresponsible. Poland raises PLN 25 billion annually from the sale of carbon allowances. Minister! When you start spending this money on energy transformation, for example. for the development of public transport? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your stubborn inability and short-sightedness condemns Poles and Poles to the economic, energy and climate catastrophe. Come to your senses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u571	Thank you very much. That concludes the speeches and the questioning. Please, Minister of Climate and Environment Anna Moscow. Come in, Minister. [[Voice from the room: Only one substantive question was. One.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u572	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've done this several times before, but I'm going to introduce myself again because I see that there's a need - Anna Moscow, Minister of Climate and Environment, also responsible for energy, female sex. [[Applause]] We should all speak with one voice in these days. We're in the energy war with Putin. [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Not with Putin, but with the Polish people.]] This room should speak with one voice these days. One voice with Poles, one voice in defence of energy security. Unfortunately, this is not the case. What does Putin say at the time? Putin says that there will be a shortage of coal in Poland - said Russian media. What do we hear in this room? The state scares citizens - there will be no coal in Poland. [[It was supposed to be for 200 years.]] You generate hysteria, panic, which leads to high prices and fear that there will be no coal. Delivering coal to Poles at a good price is our government's highest priority. Let me remind you of the debate of March, April. There's no embargo - wrong. On April 16 we are introducing an embargo - also wrong. 70% Coal energy - bad. Today we hear: increasing mining - bad, good. It is difficult to see what the voices and opinions of the opposition are actually. I will remind you of what you have already mentioned: close the Turów, close the mines, we want to breathe clean air. It was raining in this room too, and it was raining this year. [[Voice from the room: Elimination of mines...]] At the beginning of this year voices: more RES, let's close the mines, it rained in this room too. Where's the consequence? [[The voice from the room: But it was you who accepted the program.]] I will also remind you, because here there were a lot of comparisons to the politics of the Western countries, and it appeared in our fellow Members' statements: The Netherlands, Austria, Italy, Germany, the Czech Republic, and in fact they all returned quietly to coal. We don't have to go back to coal because we're loyal to carbon for all the years of our governments. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We stand with coal.]] [[Say it on the stacks.]] The consistent policy of our government based on a very responsible energy mix means that beyond the RES we are developing, we must have stable sources. These sources are stable in Poland, this is carbon, which is less gas, ultimately atom. Explain to Poles what they would do in January 2019 when it wasn't blowing when the sun wasn't shining. [[Voice from the room: Two of the most expensive energy sources.]] What would then be the heat delivered to millions of Poles, who you are supposed to be fighting for and who you care so much about? The myth is that the price of coal in the mine, which today is lower than that of 996 PLN, will be higher. Why? The bill says that this price is up to 996 PLN, which does not mean that it cannot be lower. It can be lower - this is the maximum price guaranteed by those suppliers who enter our program. A few facts about renewable energy sources, because I think it is worth recalling them, we have already talked about them many times. In parallel with the care for the stability of our system and constant energy sources, we also take care of the development of RES. [[You don't care, it's not true.]] And let me remind you: our 2020 RES target was 15% - the objective set by the European Union. We've reached 16.13%. in RES. We thank more than a million Poles for participating in the Prosumer programme, for being able to reach a record, for developing RES, for developing individual energy and increasing self-sufficiency. Poland is the leader of offshore wind energy today. [[Poland is the leader?]] It will be the first production in Poland in 2026. Let me remind you that there is now a law on land-based wind energy - another step towards the development of renewable energy sources. Clean air. You take care of clean air, so that Poles breathe clean air, but I will remind you of the infringement for the years 2007-2015. Firstly, for lack of clean air and breach of all standards, and secondly for lack of action in this area. [[Voice from the hall: What about the bill, what are you talking about?]] This is 2007-2015 and we have introduced a clean air programme in accelerated mode. Thanks to this, we have already funded 8 billion applications, paid 3 billion, co-financing contracts - 6.5 billion, signing - 381 169 contracts. [[Voice in the room: Answer the questions.]] This is June 17th. These are thermal modernization programs, these are roof exchange programs, windows, these are programs that provide clean sources of heating and hot water. These are responsible programmes for those who most need this support, with funding of up to 90%, up to 69 thousand, which is for the group that needs it most. In parallel, we have a shielding supplement, I will remind you - still working, providing additional support for the poorest, for whom the fuel used in the bill is the source of heating. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: The poorest had the coops, and you took them away from them.]] This is the rate of up to 1,400 PLN for those poorest who need such support. Let me remind you - the supplement has been in operation since the beginning of the year and by October this year a large number of Poles will certainly benefit from this program, and already a large part of it has benefited from it. [[Voice from the room: 2 weeks is enough.]] It is not true that PiS has made Poland dependent on coal from Russia. This is another myth that fell in this room today. [[Voice from the room: What do you mean no?]] Polish professional energy does not bring coal from the Russian Federation for its own purposes. [[Voice from the room: 60 million tons.]] She mentioned that, of course, we know that this coal was flowing through private suppliers to Polish households, it was not downloaded by the Treasury companies in any way, but still the amount of Russian coal was falling. You've mentioned the data for the selected years, and I'll let you mention it for all of them. [[Voice from the room: Not too chosen. 60 million.]] I'm talking about individual households. 2018 - 13, 2019 - 10, 2020 - 9, 2021 - 8, of which 7 million to individual households. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u573	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. Amendments were tabled in the discussion and a request not to send the draft law to the committee to submit a report. I propose that the Sejm do not refer this bill back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection.]] I heard the objection. We will therefore proceed to the vote on this issue in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law on safe abortion and other reproductive rights (Print No 2298). I would like to ask a representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, Mrs Marta Lempart, to present the reasons for the bill. You're very welcome. Hello, everyone watching upstairs. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: What? This one here? Disgraceful!]] You're welcome. [[Some Members keep banners with the inscription: Legal abortion - on yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u574	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Today, I have the honour to act as a very formal and very significant representative of the citizens' committee of the legislative initiative on Legal abortion. No compromise. I represent not only myself today, but more than 200,000. persons who have signed up to a project introducing health standards like those in civilised countries. [[Voice from the hall: the Third Reich.]] I come to you with a draft law that amends the law so that it meets European and global standards in the field of the protection of women's life and health. I come with a draft law that adapts Polish law to reality... [[Voice from the room: yours, I think.]] ...in which we all and all live, our reality and your reality, including your daughters, sisters, wives, mothers and friends, all of us. I come from a draft law, whose regulations are based solely on hard data, based solely on facts, which is based on what it should be based on - science, which is medicine. I come with a draft law, which is not only constitutionally compatible, but removes from the legal market regulations contrary to the Constitution, which are contrary to science, which are incompatible with European and world standards, and, above all, removes the effects of the last non-constitutional activities of Mrs Przyłębska's team sitting in the former building of the Constitutional Tribunal. This whole bill of ours is just a repair program, one of the many we need. This is a repair program for the protection of the health of people in Poland, which, first of all, introduces a substantive, scientific and legal standard for the protection of women's health in terms of access to medical services, which is abortion. This is a recovery programme which, secondly, eliminates widespread abuse and mass abuse, the constant practice of women's rights violations of access to health protection. Speaking of standard, we're talking about really basic things. We are talking about the fact that a pregnant woman has the right to terminate this pregnancy by 12 weeks of its duration and whether she will benefit from the medical benefit of abortion, as women in countries such as Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, France, Finland, Greece, Spain, Ireland, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Latvia, Netherlands, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden and Italy - and these are only European Union countries - women in European Union countries, women in countries with World Health Organisation standards, women in countries that respect international health standards and human rights obligations. Poland is not such a country. Let's fix this. This needs to be fixed, and that guarantees our project. We are talking about the fact that a pregnant woman has the right to discontinue this pregnancy by 24 weeks in eligible cases. What are the cases? Those that create a reality in Poland of a real ban on abortion, a practical ban on abortion, create a dead law. Following a statement by Mrs Przyłębska's team sitting in the former building of the Constitutional Tribunal, hospitals in Poland sentence women to torture by refusing them the medical benefit of abortion in the event of permanent defects in the fetus. We are losing and we will lose cases before the European Court of Human Rights, every time, because of torture and inhumane treatment. And women will die. Let's fix this. Our project ends with this sadistic practice. Pursuant to the 1993 Act on whether pregnancy resulting from the crime can be interrupted, the prosecutor decides in Poland. And it also decides, passively, by refusing for weeks to issue the certificate necessary to use an abortion procedure. As a result of the fact that the pregnancies resulting from the offence are not interrupted under the applicable law, it is, of course, done outside the system, even though the law theoretically guarantees such a procedure. Let's fix this. Our project ends with a dead law. In theory, there is also a rule in Poland that is intended to save the life and health of pregnant women, guaranteeing them abortion in the event of a health and life threat. How does it work in the current anti-abortion practice? Mrs. Isabella from Pszczyna, Mrs. Agnieszka from Częstochowa. [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] As it works, the women who go to hospitals where doctors paralyze fear and who miraculously succeed. How does it work? First of all, they know people in Poland who do not get pregnant. We've had the lowest birth rate since World War II, because women know what's at stake because we know what's at stake. Let's fix this. Our project brings back the protection of the health and life of pregnant people, guaranteeing them the necessary abortion. Not one more. [[Applause]] The key question is how do we do that so that access to legal abortion, safe, free abortion is not a dead law, so that it is not dependent on willfulness, ideology, politics. We all know what it looks like now. Abuse of a religious clause, unlawful formal barriers, unnecessary research, fictional committees, system playing for weeks. To harm to humiliate, to make the law more difficult to make it dead. Let's fix this. Our project introduces an obligation to provide an abortion within 72 hours of the application, introducing a common procedure for granting this benefit and a guarantee to consider the refusal to grant this benefit within 24 hours. Our project introduces an obligation to have the ability to provide medical services, which is abortion, even if all doctors in the institution invoke a religious clause through a contract with an appropriate sub-contractor who will provide such services. Our project eliminates the unlawful use by doctors of a religious clause in respect of activities that are not medical benefits, for example. writing prescriptions. These are all solutions in line with the recommendations issued by the UN Human Rights Committee for Poland in 2016. These include access to legal, safe, free abortion. They're talking about the fact that putting in rules that provide medical services in any case is a crime and is criminalized in the Penal Code is absurd, it's a confusion of order. Medical provision, medical provision is never, can't be and will not be a crime. It's 2022. Maybe it's time. Maybe it's time. Ladies and gentlemen! A great opportunity for all of you, a great opportunity to do something completely ordinary, completely normal, completely standard and obvious. 66% citizens and citizens of Poland support access to legal, safe, free abortion by 12 weeks. [[Applause]] 97% voters and voters of the Left support the right to legal, safe, free abortion by 12 weeks. [[Applause]] There's 88% for legal abortion. voters and voters of the Civic Coalition. [[Applause]] I know that the Civic Coalition Club supports our project, and the parties forming the Civic Coalition support the legalization of abortion by 12 weeks. Thank you all so much for this. [[Applause]] Changing your mind is very difficult and requires time, work and courage. I'm very grateful to you. There's 83% for legal abortion. voters of Poland 2050 Szymon Hołowni. [[Applause]] Will you listen to those you represent in the Seym? I'm asking the members of this group. There's 52% for legal abortion. voters and voters of the Polish People's Party. [[Applause]] Will at least half of you vote in favour? For legal abortion, there are 44% of the Confederate voters and voters. [[Applause]] Here too I expect almost half the votes in favour. And for legal abortion, there are 34% of law and justice voters. One-third of the votes in favor would translate, and that's an increase of 10% over a year and a half. [[Applause]] I wonder what happened. We're asking a very simple question today. Yes or no? Yes or no? [[Voice from the room: Who studied this?]] More and more people in Poland know that the ban on abortion does not mean no abortion. More and more people in Poland believe that medical benefits should be decided only by medical standards. More and more people in Poland believe that women know what they're doing. I wanted to quote one of the promises about how citizens' projects will always go to committee, they will always be there at second reading. Perhaps there are those who believe in it, so perhaps in their name, the honorable Law and Justice, you have made such a promise. Maybe this is the one you'll keep. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Not about killing.]] I'm just one person here. No one has to listen to me, no one has to listen to Marta Lempart, but what you see is research. What you've seen on the Polish streets since 2016, what you saw in 2020, is the voice of a sovereign, your sovereign, a voice that I know well. I can give you advice, good advice, don't ignore him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u575	I would like to thank Mrs Marcie Lempart, a representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would very kindly like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u576	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the citizens' draft law on the safe cessation of pregnancy and other reproductive rights introduced in accordance with the law on the implementation of the legislative initiative by citizens. The subject of the proposed law drawn up by the Legislative Initiative Committee on Legal abortion. Without compromises, there is another attempt to introduce changes in Polish law which are incompatible with both the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Changes that no longer characterize a fundamental lack of respect for life, but also, at the same time, a lack of respect for freedom of conscience, which is not only the right to have a certain worldview and to present its value, but also, and perhaps above all, to deal with that conscience in harmony. It reminds us of this, at least on 7 October 2015, of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. However, the project, which is the subject of our work today, moves not only in the area of protecting the rights of the conceived child, but at the same time enters into the area of freedom for doctors, proposing regulations that will actually deprive them of the possibility of exercising a conscience clause. Thus, the authors of the proposed amendments to the law demand not only freedom in deciding about human life, but also the introduction of a statutory compulsion to act contrary to the fundamental freedoms assigned to man. It should also be stressed that, in order to achieve the objectives set, they also try to use human dramas, which are often faced by young people and their families. What is characteristic and at the same time frightening at a time when parents' consent is needed for simple medical or even hygienic examinations, they want to impose full freedom on 13-year-olds about abortion. Yes, I didn't happen to say: impose, because instead of real support that is necessary in such difficult matters, they offer deceptive, supposedly simple solutions that carry unhealable wounds or even tragedies. It raises a simple question, for whom are these solutions proposed in this bill supposed to be safe? [[Voice from the room: For people, for women.]] Because Law and Justice care about security and compliance... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Since Law and Justice care about security and respect for the rights of every man, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is strongly opposed to this project in its entirety. We point out that it is contrary to the right to life, freedom of conscience and expression of views and parental rights. Both the scope of the proposed changes, which is illegal and the presented form, do not allow for further work on them. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I recommend rejecting the bill at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u577	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Nowacka, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u578	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This project is the opposition of Poles and Poles to the bastardry that Kaczyński, Ziobro, Przyłębska and all those who today on the right have so much hypocrisy in themselves that they talk about human rights and the defence of women. You're the reason the Polish are afraid to have children. It is because of you that young girls say: we are afraid to get pregnant in Poland, because we will not find help here, we will not find support and we will not find safety. You are responsible for such drama as Mrs. Isabella of Pszczyna. [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] And the civic project is the voice of women and men about normality in Poland, about the right to safe and legal abortion. Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition wants to work on this project, which is why we are proposing that it be submitted to the Committee on Health and Social Policy. We believe that the voice of citizens and citizens must be heard that Polish women must be safe (Applause) that Polish women must have access to sexual education, contraception, safe legal abortion and in vitro. We deserve the same rights as our friends in the Czech Republic, Austria, the UK, Germany. You think we're worse and dumber? That we won't be able to decide about each other? The Poles decide for themselves, only by you are they sentenced to abortion. They're talking about the need for normality. The Civic Coalition Club will bring about this normality. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u579	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u580	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This citizens' initiative is the answer to the hell of the women who the Polish people have prepared for the PiS. It all began in 2016, when Jarosław Kaczyński announced that they would strive to make even very difficult pregnancies, for which the child is sentenced to death, badly deformed, and ended in childbirth, so that this child could be baptized, buried and had a name. [[Shame!]] Thus, he gave impetus to the action of PiS and ultraconservative fundamentalists, for whom the most important thing is to give birth, whether a child from rape or a child with a disability who will end his life in suffering, whether a dead fetus or, on the occasion of a difficult birth, his mother will die. The most important thing is to have a baby. Since then, they have been very consistent in the taking away of Polish dignity and security: they take access to emergency contraception and prenatal research, to sexual education, promote a clause of conscience, implement a register of pregnancy, do not implement anti-violence conventions, deprive women's organizations who have been helping and supporting women for years, and finally carry out the Constitutional Tribunal controlled by the PiS and manage to tighten up the anti-abortion law that forces Polish women to be heroics. We also tried, I will remind you, a project that should never be in the Polish Sejm and which assumed that abortion would become a crime of murder and a woman was a killer. Today the pregnancy in Poland is conducted by the prosecutor, priest and Kaczyński with colleagues from PiS who enter the life of Poles with boots. That's enough. [[Applause]] It's a woman and a doctor who should decide on safe motherhood. Today we are in a demographic crisis because Poles do not want to have children in Poland, which is not safe for them in any way. That is why we are proposing that the project be submitted to work in the Commissions: Health and Social Policy and Family Policy. If that happens, we will make amendments to it consistent with our position on safe motherhood. We have a package of women's rights that consists of two proposals. They're inseparable. One, we'll take care of women's safety. You will find here everything that PiS took, what PiS prohibited, and what PiS limited to women. [[Applause]] Two: a new social contract, within which we are in favour of guaranteeing each Polish woman in an extremely difficult situation the right to take, after consulting a psychologist and a doctor, an individual decision to terminate pregnancy by 12 weeks under safe conditions. Women must have the right to make personal decisions about motherhood in accordance with their own conscience. Women must be provided with comprehensive care. Women must be safe and have the right to choose. They must have a choice, not a ban. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u581	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, parliamentary club of the Left. [[Applause]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u582	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Law and Justice! You're saying our project is radicalism. And do you know what the limits of radicalism look like? Radicalism, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, is here. It's that red stain. Recognize it? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Yes, unfortunately, it is Poland, the only large country in Europe with a total ban on abortion. Is this project radical? If you treat it in terms of radical empathy towards women, it is radical - radical in terms of concern, understanding, empathy and belief in women and their right to make independent decisions about motherhood, their health and their life. [[Applause]] For more than 30 years, there was an abortion pseudo-compromise in Poland, to which the gentlemen sitting in the Seym in suits and gentlemen in caskets, who together, but without asking women's opinion, decided what women in Poland were allowed to do with pregnancy and what they were not allowed to do. [[Applause]] Although the word "compromise" should be replaced by the words "compromise" and "hypocrisy." [[Applause]] There's no going back to that pseudo-compromise today. 30 years ago, you sold our rights, took away women's dignity and sense of security. But that abortion wasn't enough for you. You had to tighten the screw even more and you did it, Law and Justice. With the hands of Julia Przyłębska, you forced women to give birth, to give birth at all costs, to produce irreversibly damaged foetuses, to bear even at the cost of their mother's life - Iza from Pszczyna, Agnieszka from Czestochowa, Ania from Świdnica. It makes the Polish people just don't want to have children. You have led to the fact that women in Poland are afraid to get pregnant or do not decide to have a child. Are you guys proud of yourselves? Was that your goal? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] For the last 7 years, you have given women in Poland institutional violence against women. You took in vitro funding from women, a non-prescription day tablet, high standards of delivery care. Polish women are the only ones in Europe who do not even have access to modern, refundable contraception, reliable sexual education and legal sterilization, and the pregnancy register, which in fact is supposed to help women in Europe, is to be used in Poland to prosecute women who were pregnant, but are no longer. As if that weren't enough, District Attorney Ziobra is also after women today who helped other women to stop their pregnancy. We have Justyna in the courtroom, whose case is pending. What crime did Justyna commit? She helped another woman... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...a woman who wanted to abort a pregnancy, a woman who needed help. She gave her pills back. Justyna, we're with you, we'll always be there, and you'll never go alone. For more than 30 years, women in Poland have had to cope on their own, because the state washes its hands. What are they doing? They order pills and they have an abortion at home. They travel abroad, or they find a gynecologist who for an appropriate fee forgets that there is such a thing as a clause of conscience. Why do women stop being pregnant? Because they got pregnant as a result of rape, but sometimes it's just because they don't want or can't be mothers at the moment. They rely on relief organisations such as the Federation for Women and Family Planning and Abortion without Borders. [[Applause]] Thank you so much for the great work you're doing today. The possibility of abortion is not coercion. The possibility of abortion is the right to choose. It's the right of choice every woman has to have and you have to give to women after 30 years. It's a choice that a woman can benefit from when she thinks she doesn't want to give birth without confessing to anyone, especially a politician or a priest, because it's not a matter for a priest or a politician, it's a woman's private decision. [[Applause]] Because no abortion ban stops an abortion. You know it, and your president knows it, too. A citizen's project on legal abortion without compromises responds to this need. It is a project that restores dignity and security for women in Poland. It is a project which, after 30 years, gives them the right to decide whether to discontinue pregnancy, the right to make independent decisions. It is a project that guarantees that women who perform abortion will have safe access to medical services, in hospitals they will be treated with dignity, and if they decide to discontinue pregnancy at home by 12 weeks, and so 90% of women in Poland will feel safe and will have support. It will also restore women's confidence in gynecologists, because even you could ruin it. Today, this trust is very damaged. They're just scared and they're talking about it out loud. Women's health and safety have no political colors, no religion and no worldview, because women's health and safety are fundamental. Trust women and give them the right to decide their motherhood. [[Applause]] The left was (the bell), is and will be behind the legal, safe, free possibility of abortion without conditions, without hooks, without small printing, without any compromises, simply. And it's gonna make pregnant women have the right to decide if they want to be in it. I promise that, as soon as possible, we will introduce legal, safe abortion and in vitro funding from the state budget. Meanwhile, we will support a project that has signed over 200,000. Poles and Poles. I am applying for an immediate transition to second reading because Polish women cannot wait. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u583	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome. Thank you very much. I invite Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u584	God's greetings to all small people and to those who do not hinder them from coming into the world. Safe abortion of pregnancy is, of course, an oxymoron, an antinomy - you google yourself later, what it means - an internal contradiction. There's no safe abortion - a man dies. I'm filing a motion to reject this monstrous and grotesque project at first reading. Don't direct him to any committee, please. Let's forget about this festival of character in the Satanic field, which is just taking place. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Let's move on. Maybe we can get through this. I invite my colleague Dobromir Sosnierz, who will have a number of unpleasant words for you. [[Voice from the room: Sorry about Mr Braun, girls.]] [[Voice from the room: It's gonna get worse.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u585	Allow me to invite Mr Dobromir Sosnier. You're welcome, sir, near the Confederation. [[Voice from the room: Scandalous T-shirt, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u586	At first glance, it may seem that this bill is some bleak dream of a madman or rather of a criminal's dream, but it's just appearances, because it's really trolling, it's satire. For left-wing hypocrisy. To understand that this is just such a nasty joke, just pay attention to the language itself, which with the full consequence worthy of a better cause... After all, the Act here mocks this leftist gender madness and talks all the time about pregnant people, not about women, as in previous legislation, i.e. there is already a full readiness for pregnant men or people who, for example. After becoming pregnant, however, they felt a call to manhood. So you know-- you have to read it all with a wink, easy. Over the 12th week - in the next part of the project we have a clarification that by the 24th week, so not exactly without compromises this abortion, this is another joke for advanced in this law - can be invoked for any defect of the fetus. Anything! There's no limit! On the flatfoot, on the polydactyl. First one without faults, pick up the scalpel first. Don't be angry, but when I look at you like that, I don't know who would have escaped from the cleaver in this House. So that by week 24, you can terminate pregnancy as a result of an illegal act as well. It says here: if pregnancy is the result of a prohibited act being the subject of a pregnancy claim, which is, first of all, look what you wrote - a statement is enough. It doesn't even have to be established or proven in any way. [[Voice from the room: There doesn't even have to be a woman.]] It doesn't even have to be said what kind of forbidden act. [[Voice from the room: How many children have you had?]] And what's more, look, you can be the perpetrator of this forbidden act. It's not said that you can't. E.g. It is prohibited to have sex with a minor up to the age of 15, i.e. a person who has had sex with a minor up to the age of 15, may then invoke this law and terminate the pregnancy on the basis of your prepared law. Yes, further jokes - in art. 2 (2) 4 It is said that the statement may be in any form (the bell) that you want to be subject to abortion, and in Article. 3 (1) (a) 1, that written prior consent, means it was drunk, but you need to correct such laws soberly. This isn't the end of the heat. A person with a uterus over the age of 13 can decide for himself to kill his child even against the will of his parents. They're just balls. After all, the same people voted that you can't take a child until you're 18 to hunt. So a 13-year-old girl can't watch you shoot a rabbit, but she can kill her baby. I mean... You're kidding, right? [[Applause]] You're kidding. This can't be real. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, time.]] We still have an obligation to provide health care, including abortion. Whose health saves abortion outside of saving a woman? [[Voice from the room: Time.]] We don't know, but it's a duty. So not only does the Left want the right to kill children, but this leftist perversion requires her to force this witness on others. And if someone doesn't provide access to an abortion, then the NFZ terminates the contract with him. Of course, why do we need doctors in Poland who don't kill children.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u587	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u588	And the final joke: the bill is supposed to guarantee the implementation of reproductive rights. Calling abortion a reproductive law is LOL, the pump just.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u589	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u590	I assure you, no one has been reproduced by abortion yet. [[Joy in the Chamber]] In conclusion, I would like to say that the socialists of the nation were building concentration camps, the communists were filling the pits with bodies of people shot in the back of the head, and today's Left is trying to commit crimes according to their capabilities and their courage - the mass hecatoms of those who cannot defend themselves. [[Voice from the room: A Confederation provides Muppet Show.]] And Mrs. Lempart says hello to the letter she greeted her political opponents at the rallies.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u591	Thank you very much. I wanted, ladies and gentlemen, although I do not have to justify my decisions, which allow to extend individual statements, as in the case of the Polish Coalition I gave the opportunity to speak 2 minutes longer. I am doing this with full conviction, because I think that Polish society should know the views on this issue of all groups sitting in the Sejm and evaluate it. Please, Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050. Come on in, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u592	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After the speeches of my two previous speakers, all I can say is that if you want to release demons in Poland, then you start talking about abortion. We in the circle of Poland 2050 have different views on abortion and each of us will vote according to our beliefs. Some of us will vote in favour of passing the bill to further work despite the fact that today's wording does not agree, but they will do so out of respect for the citizens' initiative. We have different views, because we are a centre party, a party that captures within its reach both those who are in favour of legalising abortion, and those who believe that we should return to the so-called. an abortion compromise. But what we have in common is that we have respect for each other, and this respect is dramatically lacking in this conversation about abortion. We know that our positions on abortion are based on different experiences and different sensibilities. We believe that each of us, in Poland, has the right to his own views, has the right to present them on the condition that he does not hurt anyone. We are divided in Poland and we cannot run away from this. Even if it is that it actually is 66% Poles support the legalization of abortion law today, which remains the 34% Poles with different views, who also deserve respect. Let us be honest: we will not adopt this law in this House, just as we have not passed the Law on liberalisation in previous Chambers. That is why we want to offer Poles how we can get along. Instead of throwing yourself at invectives, we propose, first of all, a return to the state before the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment, because this sentence leads to drama and is hardly supported by anyone in Poland. Secondly, after today's opposition has won the elections, we want to organize a citizens' panel that will last a year and which will have to come up with a referenda question. Thirdly, let us hold this referendum and put it into practice. On the right and on the left, we hear that the decision on abortion cannot be taken by all citizens in a referendum. It is I who answer you: all these years we try to make this decision differently and we cannot. Let us make this decision in a referendum. I ask: Why is this not a referendum? The right side - we know, does not trust people, prefers to decide for them (the bell), even if not in the Sejm, through the Constitutional Tribunal. But the position Democrats surprise me. Are you afraid of direct democracy? In our view, there is some sort of disregard for citizens in opposition to the referendum. I would like to remind my colleagues, on the left, on the right, that the same citizens who elected us here will vote in the referendum. Trust them. The referenda decision gives more legitimacy, gives the strongest legitimacy. Let's give it to the citizens. We're different, but if we respect each other in this diversity, we'll be stronger. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u593	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Senyshin, near PPS. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u594	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Martha Lempart! Dear representatives of NGOs fighting for women's rights! [[Applause]] The Parliamentary Circle of the Polish Socialist Party fully supports the citizens' bill on safe abortion. [[Applause]] But this is a debate. Not about abortion, but about women's right to freedom and self-determination. The biggest paradox of history is that those who for Poland regained independence and freedom in 1989, 4 years later stole freedom from Poles. [[Applause]] By the 1993 Act, they compared the lives of embryos with the lives of women. They considered women incubators and deprived part of human rights. The only result of this law is the boom of the abortion underground and the tragedies of thousands of women who do not have enough money or knowledge to benefit from illegal surgery, buy or get abortion pills, go abroad. Now the pregnancies will even be registered - like cows. It is our moral duty to give the Polish people freedom. As a member of the Legislative Initiative Committee, I wondered what arguments to use to convince those who want to reject the law to be consistent with Catholic science. Well, one of the finest minds of the Catholic Church, the archbishop of Milan card. Carlo Maria Martini made the faithful aware that the bans served nothing and encouraged them to think on their own. Now I'm trying to talk you into it. [[Applause]] In 2006, he announced that condoms and legal abortion were less evil and in vitro fertilization was even good, but less. The legalization of abortion was supported by the fact that it eliminates abortion underground. Do you really want to support an abortion underground? In 2008, the Milan Archbishop declared that the flagship encyclical of Paul VI ¿Humanae vitae ¿, presenting the Church's position on birth control and artificial contraception, caused many damage. He felt that it was necessary to apologize to the faithful for their mistakes (the bell), too many bans and harshness in the sensitive issues of the family. Messengers and Members! Be like Cardinal Martini. Follow your conscience and your senses, not a ossified Catholic doctrine that is harmful to the faithful and does not allow them to use their free will. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u595	Thank you very much. Thank you to all the clubs, thank you to all the circles for presenting your position. Let's move on to asking questions. Ladies and gentlemen, would any of you like to add to your questions? [[May I?]] Please, because there's a limit of 34 people, and there's 28. Of course, remember there are club limits, so check it out. [[Voice from the room: There's supposed to be no room.]] There are clubs that have already exhausted the limit, but there are clubs that haven't exhausted it, and when it comes to the ones that have exhausted it, I'm sorry. [[Voice from the hall: We can't do that, can we?]] Not anymore. [[Voice from the room: What about the place of the PiS?]] In place of the PiS, ladies and gentlemen - I think it might happen in a year and a half, but I'm not sure. Good. [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal can't allow it?]] No, I'm afraid not. Unfortunately, I cannot change the decision of the Sejm Bureau on this matter, which we have accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, the list of questions to be asked and those to be asked are valid. I'm setting 1 minute for questioning. I invite Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Is there a Member? You're welcome. Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask you, Mrs Ursula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u596	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, symbolically throughout Poland, in support of the citizens' project, legal abortion. Without compromise, we wear green. For me as a politician who was sitting up there three years ago, just like you today, and very, very much wanted to change my country, it's especially important. Because green is the color of hope. It is a color that will introduce normality and decency in Poland. It is also the color of volunteers who collected signatures under this project throughout Poland, many organizations, ordinary women who simply want normality. Those signatures were 200,000. I am glad that today in the Seym their voices sound and claim the rights of women. About the laws that have been drastically reduced by this government. We're fighting for the right thing. And there will come a day when this case will prevail. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On behalf of the divided people, I declare full support - until the end - for legal abortion and full rights of women in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u597	Thank you very much. Mr... Oh, I'm sorry, Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Parliamentary Left Club. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u598	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the Citizens' Initiative Committee! So long awaited by millions of Poles law Legal abortion. Without compromise, it is the answer to the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal of Julia Przyłębska which is dangerous for women. This threat was convinced by Isabella of Pszczyna, who was hoping that the doctors would save her life, but she didn't get help. Worse still, Miss Isabella was fully aware that her life was in danger. This is from the last text to the mother. She wrote: Thanks to the anti-abortion bill, I have to lie down and the doctors can't do anything, they'll wait until the fetus dies or something starts, and if not, I can expect sepsis. They can't accelerate, they have to either stop heartbeating or something has to start. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question for the representative of the citizens' initiative committee. What do we know about the results of the investigation into Ms. Isabella's death? Do you know more cases of pregnancy or loss of health? What advice can be given to pregnant people with complications? Should they look for a hospital in Poland, or should they go abroad immediately? Whether and how the Act Legal abortion. Without compromise, will he bear the risk of the death of pregnant women? What is the situation of pregnant Ukrainians who want to abort pregnancy in Poland? Does a pregnant woman have anything to worry about if a pregnancy is registered but a woman doesn't have a baby? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u599	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u600	Here was the idea to treat as the advantage of this legalization that this way we eliminate the underground, but this argument would be equally appropriate to any other crime. We can also eliminate underground car theft, for example, but honestly, I don't think that's an advantage. You say it's a decision about a woman's body. No, it's not. The fetus is not part of a woman's body, which one of the previous speakers has already tried to explain to you, just like the chicken in the egg is not part of the chicken's body. [[Voice from the room: How do you know?]] [[Voices from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] You have no doubt about that. In the course of the evolution, mammals developed the ability to grow an embryo inside their body and combine it with a placenta. But it's not exactly a piece of a woman's body, like a chicken isn't a piece of a chicken's body. On this simple example, I hope you will finally understand. [[Voice from the hall: It's not... it's the Sejm.]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the hall: It's not... it's the Sejm.]] But so what? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what I'm teaching you 'cause you guys are telling cocopoles against science. Ontogenesis says that a new organism is formed at the time of a gamet combination and it is a separate organism. [[Voice from the room: Leave the women alone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u601	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u602	So, of course, a woman can decide her own body, but no longer her child's body, at least not to the point of killing him.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u603	I would like to invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u604	You're welcome. I could've explained that. [[Voice from the room: Less foolishness.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u605	Member, please. Thank you very much, Member. I invite you, Miss Joanna Senyshin, near the PPS. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u606	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Sosnierz did not understand what I was saying. I don't blame him because he doesn't understand anything. [[Applause]] The hell of women has been going on since 1993. The Catholic legislators claimed that the right to abortion is contrary to the Polish constitution, whose art. 38 provides every man with legal protection of life. [[Voice from the room: True.]] Today it was repeated by the representative of the PiS, but in 2006. PiS wanted to add in this article the protection of life since conception, because you knew perfectly well that the constitution did not protect embryos or foetuses. At the last minute, President Kaczyński withdrew from this absurd record and the PiS vote on the draft amendment to the Constitution fell. So now I call on the president of the PiS to respect the constitution and vote in favour of sending the project to committee, and the PiS with him, because it's always like your mother, and the whole club. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u607	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Arrow, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[I was called by name.]] [[Voice from the room: Without mode it is impossible.]] [[That's a corrigendum.]] Mr President, this is not an easy discussion. I've managed to manage it with you so far, of course, so let's not fight. [[Applause]] [[That's a corrigendum.]] Mrs Beata Arrow, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u608	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm trying to understand what the applicant thinks lies in the notion of conscious parenting. The answer, the definition of the concept: conscious parenting, consists in continuous development, which provides for active awareness-raising of both the child and himself. According to the applicants, does a 13-year-old child have a well-developed sense of informed parenthood so that they can decide on their own to terminate the pregnancy? [[Voice from the room: What about getting pregnant?]] A 13-year-old minor, because such a provision is in the draft law, is a student of the 6th or 7th grade of primary school, for which her parents are responsible. She's treated by them as a child, so please point out to me a parent who's willing to give his consent to a 13-year-old woman to decide who she is... [[Voice from the gym: To get her pregnant.]] ...and your state of health and the abortion procedure. Is one of your messengers ready to give such permission to your minor child? Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, full of hypocrisy. At noon, you defend the rights of the child in the Ombudsman's report, and under cover of the night, you want to give consent to abortion to your own children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u609	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u610	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! We have the power, which for ideological reasons took sexual education from young Poles and Poles, i.e. the possibility of avoiding unwanted pregnancy. We have the power to take emergency contraception in the event of another birth control failure, which means it has again taken the right to avoid unwanted pregnancy. We have the power to take away the right to have children by taking them in vitro. Many infertile couples will never have offspring. You even took that rotten 1993 compromise, taking away the third premise. It's time for a new social contract. It's time for women to decide about themselves. It's time for an abortion, for a legal, safe abortion until 12 weeks of pregnancy. [[Who's safe?]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the time. We will make this change without referendum and without the dictatorship of the Catholic Church. [[Applause]] It's been 100 years since Boy-Żelenski's inferno. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We really cannot be such a red island in front of the whole European Union. Polish women are entitled to the same rights as other European women. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u611	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left. There's probably gonna be something with a light in the dark. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u612	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, But above all, Mrs. Martha Lempart! Dear Activists! [[Applause]] For more than 30 years the cowardly cynical politicians of the right hand, various ointments, have had mouths full of phrases about unborn children, whose supposedly weapons, taking the right to abortion from Poles, denying Poles the right to self-determination and autonomy in terms of reproductive rights. Now I'm going to tell you about these unborn children, about your unborn children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's them every year. Twenty-two thousand. Last year it was exactly 220 455 children who were not born by you, because the number of children born in Poland has decreased annually since 1991, when Gehenna, threats, abortion restrictions began. Check it out. I do not have time to give you all these yearbooks here, but systematically, within 5 years, the number of children born in Poland has dropped by almost 200,000. From the moment they took the right to abortion from the Poles, the Poles are afraid to get pregnant and give up their motherhood. You're the ones responsible for this, these unborn children. Ladies and gentlemen! In 1980, I was...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u613	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u614	No. I'll have... Marshal Terlecki took my microphone twice today. Mr. Marshal. The Wizard won't do that to me. I just wanted to say one more sentence. I'm shocked to hear that the PiS is going to reject this project at first reading, but we're not going to let it go. There are messengers in this room who have been sent to the Sejm because they have fought for other women in the streets. In this Chamber (Applause) there are messengers, such as Monika Walej, whom you wish to drag in court because they are fighting for the rights of women in the streets. In 1992 I was a member of the then referendum committees, because then we tried to stop the upcoming abortion madness by organising a referendum. We've collected almost 2 million signatures. It was thrown in the trash. Today is no longer the time for a referendum. Today is the time to restore the rights and dignity of Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u615	Thank you very much. Madame, I wanted to tell you that Marshal Czarzasty has not spoken to you. You have a good end of the day. Congratulations. [[Microphone.]] [[Voice from the hall: This is the beginning of the next day.]] Nor will Marshal Czarzasty speak to Janusz Kowalski, whom I invite. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Pity.]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u616	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's June 23rd, Father's Day. It's one of the happiest days for me as a father, because I'm proud to be a father. Not only is it the law, but it is also the duty of the father to protect the life and health of his child until his death. Every father's duty is to protect his child's life. Of course, I can't judge those of you who come out here as parents, and you're talking about the fact that other parents have the right to kill their own children. The Lord will judge you for your own views. I will defend the right to these children's lives... [[Voice from the hall: What children?]] [[Voice from the hall: These are fetuses.]] ...which you want to take away is the most important law. Thank you in this place for all those who have the rights of unborn children with weapons. Thank you to the Family of Radio Maryja, readers of our Journal. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I thank all priests, priests, even those who were mocked (the bell) and who were mocked... [[Voice from the hall: Janusz, on your knees.]] [[Voice from the room: Say it on your knees.]] ...at the time of the women's strike. But the most important thing. Unfortunately, today's civilization of death has the face of Mrs. Marta Lempart and unfortunately also the head of the Donald Tusk Civic Platform, who promised to kill children until 12 weeks after conception. [[Voice from the hall: Tusk's wine, energy wine, what else?]] Ladies and gentlemen, you want as a Women's Strike and the Civic Platform to make women hell, because the biggest hell of women is killing your own child. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u617	Thank you very much. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u618	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For now, thanks to the abortion bill, I have to lie down. And there's nothing they can do. They're gonna wait for him to die or something to... start. The further messages you sent to your mother are too dramatic for me to have a heart to quote here. But those words, my dear lady, which tells me here, should sound in your ears. They're supposed to be dreaming at night every day. [[Applause]] Each of you, signing a motion for the party Constitutional Court of Julia Przyłębska, signed a sentence on women. [[Applause]] The sentence of trauma, fear, family tragedies, as well as death sentences. And you are even wondering that children in Poland are falling? When the Polish people tremble for their health, for their lives (the bell) when they survive miraculously, what will they get from you? Crying room? For you, the Radio Maryja family is more important than Polish families, we just heard it. [[Applause]] In these tragic circumstances, this subject has become an extremely important subject. This is the subject of the fundamental rights of every human being. And there are no more compromises with you. And we have the right to choose, and we will defend that right. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u619	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u620	Fellow Members! Today in this room is terribly empty, unfortunately not only on the right side of the room. But tomorrow, he'll be here for the votes. many who have voted against women in the past, many who have chickened out, abstaining from the vote, giving religious fundamentalists permission to violate the rights of your mothers, your wives, your sisters and your daughters. I'm talking to those of you in particular. We're looking at your hands, colleagues. [[Voice from the O.R.: On your arm.]] The Left is watching and our voters are watching, but your voters are also watching closely. 66% Poles and Poles, and among the opposition voters 90% supports the right of a woman to decide on abortion by 12 weeks. Practically everyone wants a woman to be able to stop pregnancy in the event of fatal birth defects, life or health risks. For as long as I can remember, we haven't been so unanimous in this case. [[Voice from the room: It works.]] I'm also talking to you (the bell), citizens and citizens. Look carefully at your hands in this room and remember this day well. Bill us next year at the urns. Tomorrow women will know who's with them and who's against them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u621	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Wargock, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u622	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We live in a democratic country. [[Voice from the room: Yes?]] Everyone has the right to express their own views. [[Voice from the room: Only women have no right.]] Today in the Sejm is the initiative of the Left Messenger, the left-wing community. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I've seen the composition of the legislative initiative committee, there are your names, so I think I'm right. [[Voice from the room: Bravo! Great. We're very happy about that.]] [[Applause]] Of course, bravo, we live in a free country, I mark. [[Voice from the hall: Only women have that right.]] We still find it difficult to communicate on this subject, because we are talking about completely different moral and legal levels. You're talking about women's rights, choices. The views of the people I represent are very clear. This topic concerns the right to life and we know well, we all feel (the bell), says our constitution and the natural law... [[Voice from the hall: But 34% of your electorate confirms our demands.]] Please don't disturb me. ...that the right to life is a natural right derived from human dignity and that the right to life as a primary right and the most important is the highest law in the hierarchy of values of other rights and freedoms of citizens. [[Voice from the hall: Where is the dignity of a woman?]] And, ladies and gentlemen, we don't understand each other... [[Voice from the room: What about the right to live women?]] ...no, no... [[A voice from the hall: And you give yourselves the right to... women.]] ...because the state in your speeches... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...you speak very clearly about women's right to abortion, to happiness, to their own life plans, etc. [[Game in the O.R.]] And I am very clear: these are very important laws. These are very important laws, we don't question that. But there's a coincidence in life that a child who has the right to live is not your belly or your tissue, it's human, it's the beginning of human life. [[Voice from the room: Sometimes a child is a threat to the mother's life.]] If a pregnant woman carries out a test - one woman experiences happiness, and the other woman who did not plan pregnancy is unhappy. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] But we have the right to live, and each of these women will survive their right. But the right of a child to live is a fundamental right. Ladies! 50,000. or 80,000. legal abortions that you want to fund in Poland will not make women happier. [[Voice from the room: But they must go abroad.]] Women want to be fulfilled, loved unconditionally, women want unconditional love, and you want such love... [[Voice from the room: Freedom. The right to decide.]] ...you don't understand, ladies, because the ladies of the Left have men as adversaries because they think men have no right to speak about the child they conceived, the woman has a right. A man, a husband, a partner has no right because he doesn't have anything to do with it. [[Voice from the room: Why should Kaczyński decide for women?]] There is something even worse - because your child also does not count as an obstacle to happiness at all. You won't be happy if you kill your children in your wombs. [[Voice from the hall: When will you introduce this law in Europe?]] It doesn't matter - what people, what times. Where the Left rules, there's the right to have an abortion. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: It was the right hand that introduced the right to abortion in the West.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u623	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u624	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We want to talk about our rights - us, women. We wanted to talk for a long time, and it wasn't hard to see us. We didn't fold umbrellas - there were black protests, there were women's strikes. We were all over Poland, in every village - small, medium, big city. We walked and screamed - we, women, men, too. Young people and older people - you ignored it. It was hard not to see us, but you tried hard. You've been separated from us by police, batons, shields, water cannons and gas. Strictly and impudently. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: You have come to our houses and churches.]] [[Voice from the hall: Do you live under the cultural house?]] We still want to talk about women's rights. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Here in the Seym, in an obvious place of debate and exchange of views. Don't block it, don't you dare block it. And to the applicants: thank you, we will win. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u625	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Górska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u626	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the presented project is forced to call, colloquially, gniote, which does not present any substantive value. It's a leftist rubble. First of all, an attempt on life, on the life of a conceived, defenseless man. Secondly, breaking the Polish constitution... [[Voice from the hall: Do you know what a constitution is?]] ...which the applicants had worn on their breasts not so long ago - of course, when it was convenient, in promoting destructive ideologies. [[A voice from the hall: We know where you wear it, and it is not the breasts.]] She's no longer important to you today? Thirdly, it was written in isolation from any truth, ignoring entirely scientific knowledge, the rules of the Penal Code, ignoring the code of medical ethics. Unfortunately, in a typical manipulative way, you prey on the emotions of poor, disadvantaged women. You treat people like people who don't know how to think, calling them health care (the bell) actually killing a conceived unborn child. But it is tragic -- not for us this time, but for you, but it is always sad and sad -- how poor you are in your madness, that you fear even as beautiful words as women or mothers, typing instead them into the project you present, such as any person -- not women, only pregnant persons have the right to provide health care in the form of abortion after 12 weeks of pregnancy. [[Voice from the room: A woman is not a person?]] Doesn't this insanity that you represent in this project remind you of words such as fascism, communism? [[Voice from the room: No.]] What about intolerance at least?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u627	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an hour for you. 0.20 polite request. We still have 13 questions and then the applicant's speech. Look, we're doing fine. [[Voice from the hall: What's the lecture for?]] If we could discuss it fairly calmly to the end, for which I sincerely thank you, it would be fun. And I have a request, either to a messenger or to a messenger who makes such a beating. [[Cocksucker.]] I have a heartfelt request: it doesn't help anything, it doesn't bother you, it just doesn't make sense. You're welcome. Please, Mrs Margaret Tracz, the Civic Coalition. Excuse me, miss. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u628	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the Civic Committee! Polish people and Poles want the end of women's hell. The hell that PiS prepared for women when the pseudo-tribulation of Przyłębska issued an outrageous sentence, which in practice prohibited abortion in Poland. [[Voice from the room: I Prof. Zoll.]] But tomorrow would be a chance to take the first step towards normality. The first step to introduce European standards for abortion in Poland. But there's no talking to PiS and the Confederation here - it's just a cry in the desert. You just hate women. You want these women to suffer. [[Applause]] You don't get any logical arguments. You are not getting a great project prepared by the Legal Abortion Committee. No Compromise. Finally, find out that the only way (the bell) to protect the Polish people is to have access to safe and legal abortion by 12 weeks of pregnancy... [[Voice from the room: Why not to the 13th?]] ...no compromises. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u629	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Kurowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? You're welcome. [[Voice in the O.R. The vaccine lady.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u630	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a very sad evening tonight, even though it's so beautiful, June. Why is he sad to me? Because I've never met with such joy to be asked to kill my own children. [[Voice from the room: Women's rights.]] [[Voice from the room: There are no women's rights.]] Ladies! Women's rights? As for those children who are being killed, there are women there too. Half the kids killed are women, too. And where do you have the right of those women who are being killed? [[Voice from the room: Women's rights.]] Let me continue. Abortion is a traumatic, dramatic experience. [[Voice from the hall: Who's asking you to have an abortion?]] It stays with a woman for life. This isn't a toothpick, as my predecessor said, and you guys are happy to talk about it. Few of this - I am a supporter of Polish language - on your tablets says: legal abortion. [[Voice from the room: It's written.]] My darlings, what is abortion if not killing? Legal abortion, of course. And I'm explaining to you what abortion is. This is an abortion. And what is pregnancy? He's a kid. And it's all very logical. That's why... [[Voice from the room: The child is when it is born.]] If you're saying that the day the child is born is the day life begins, then what are we going to discuss here? And if it starts early, does that mean it is? Ladies and gentlemen, you know perfectly well how you are here, that a child is a child since conception, you know that abortion is killing. You pretend you don't know that for your ideological reasons to please your bosses. [[You're the one who wants to please the boss.]] I wish you all to convert to the way of life, as Dr. Nathanson has converted. And I dedicate my words to you...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u631	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u632	... Ronald Reagan, who said: "I have noticed that all who are for abortion have been born. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u633	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Monika Rosa, Parliamentary Club, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u634	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Legally safe, free abortion is normal, that's standard, that's protecting women's health and life. [[Voice from the room: This is murder.]] [[Voice from the room: Are they healthier after this abortion? Happier?]] This is, ladies and gentlemen, the end of hypocrisy, closing your eyes and pretending that there is no abortion. The abortion was, the abortion is and the abortion will be. Legal, safe and free abortion is the end of fear, it is the end of running abroad, the end of stigmatization and the end of loneliness. Not one more - this scream should sound in your ears, in your heads and in your hearts, for the prohibition of abortion kills women. [[Voice from the hall: They have no heart.]] The decision to have abortion is not a question of your conscience, it is not a question of your views, it is a question of the decision of each of us separately, and it is your job to create such a right that each of us, regardless of our views, from the worldview, from the conscience, can simply make such a decision. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Murderer on the platform.]] This bill is about trusting women and trusting families. And the question we ask you during the vote is, do you trust women? Because we trust women completely, that's why the Modern bill fully supports. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u635	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u636	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A project was brought here about killing unborn children. It was brought by ladies who were born by the will of their parents. Congratulations. Congratulations. [[Voice from the hall: What did you bring?]] [[The voice from the hall: Exactly, it was the will of our parents. If they didn't want us, they wouldn't have us.]] The draft is incompatible with the Constitution, because Article. 38 protects life. It's against the Penal Code because you want to throw away the article. 152 and 153. It is incompatible with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. I also disagree and protest against abortion as a medical witness. [[Applause]] I'm a doctor. I've seen abortion, I've seen children murdered at different stages. [[Voice from the room: Like Chazan. He's seen a lot of things, too.]] I've even seen -- we've been shown to see what a child looks like when he was killed -- a child in the fifth month, in the fourth month, a child as small as a doll. That's why I'm protesting against calling women's rights to kill children. [[The voice from the room: Did you kill?]] No, never, and my mom gave birth to a child at risk, heroically. And a lot of women do. [[Voice from the hall: We didn't kill children either.]] But do not demand legal abortion because it is against human rights, the natural right to life. [[Voice from the room: Any woman can have a child in Poland.]] She might have a baby. There's no right to want to give birth to one, and there's no right to give birth to another. How do you love your children? How do you mothers love your children? [[Voice from the room: He has the right and does it.]] One thing I can say is, Lord God, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u637	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Hartwich, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u638	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want you all to they knew that when a disabled child is born in Poland, families and in particular women, they remain alone in poverty and poverty, without help. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Whether you gave birth to this child consciously, whether you were forced to, or just as I suffered perinatal damage and my son was born disabled, you will always be a beggar, you will collect plastic nuts, ask for donations, you will protest and fight for the dignity of your disabled child. [[Applause]] At most Mr Morawiecki will lie and talk about how he helps families with people with disabilities when it is not true. [[Applause]] Because it's not helping, and we all know it. But what's more, he's gonna steal what he gave. Because he stole the Solidarity Fund and actually took the life of our disabled children. [[The bell, the applause.]] I believe very... I'm talking to the ladies here and thank you from here for supporting our 40-day protest. [[Voice from the room: Would you kill your child?]] I believe very much that when this government changes, every Polish woman will be able to decide for herself. Polish women are wise and can make rational decisions. One more sentence. [[Applause]] Today is Father's Day. Cuba, you have the greatest dad in the world. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u639	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Kalet, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Mr President, I am trying to... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I am trying to have this difficult discussion calmly and sensibly. I urge you in the category: like a colleague in the Seym. You shouldn't talk like that. [[Voice from the room: This is not our colleague.]] I don't want to tease you. I don't want to get into conflict. But I'm asking you to bite your tongue sometimes. [[Voice from the room: Apology is due.]] [[Voice from the room: Apologize!]] Because you insult people, and that shouldn't have happened in this room. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u640	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The man who was just on the stand has no idea what he's talking about. The Ukrainians who came to Poland raped must flee Poland because you have introduced law. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You should apologize to all those women who were raped by the Russian army who were fleeing Poland because you introduced the law. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] And there are concrete examples for that. It's a disgrace what you said. [[Voice from the room: Lies!]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish abortion law is comparable to the law of Saudi Arabia. It is a more restrictive law than the law of the Ayatollah state in Iran. And that infernal law has its effects. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Mrs. Isabella of Pszczyna is dead. Mrs. Isabella of Pszczyna is dead because it made the doctors afraid to take action. [[Voice from the room: But not because of it.]] Mrs. Isabella of Pszczyna had the right to live, too. [[The voice from the hall: Stop lying, you bastard!]] You're hypocrites. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You know very well that abortions are carried out in Poland in the underground. [[Voice from the hall: Get out, you bastard!]] You don't want to see it. You want Pilate to wash off that responsibility. You know that very well. You know these abortions are being performed. You know that you too are responsible for these deaths in connection with this restrictive law. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Legal and safe abortion is every woman's right. [[Applause]] And it's gonna happen sooner than later. Human rights are not subject to any compromises. Period. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u641	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Pamula, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u642	Mr. Marshal! Dear Izbo! I am surprised that you are so sensitive to animals, to frogs, to birds, to weed, green here today, beautiful hearts are scratched. And man is part of that nature, have you forgotten? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Women's rights for women.]] [[Voice from the room: Women are aware.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u643	Thank you very much. Mr Mariusz Gosek, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u644	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I've prepared a completely different speech, but you can't listen to it. And on the day... [[Voice from the room: Come down.]] Easy, easy. And on Father's Day I wanted to say that last Sunday I was honored and became the godfather (Applause) of the little Otylia and that I am proud of it. [[Voice from the hall: So what?]] Standing under the altar in the Catholic Church, in a church like the one you painted and devastated during a woman's strike... [[Voices from the room: Liar.]] And a lie is It's a tragic example, for example, that you're playing a human tragedy. I'm talking about Mrs. Isabella from Pszczyna. [[The voice from the room: You provoked her.]] What a man to be in spite of the facts, despite... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Listen to me. What a man to be, to be controlled by the National Health Fund, who found irregularities... [[Voice from the hall: And Ziobra still, say.]] ...in spite of the ongoing proceedings before the Regional Prosecutor's Office in Katowice... [[Voice from the room: You signed this motion.]] ...in spite of expert opinions, despite those facts that are undisputed in the proceedings, give judgments and lie - to lie and to play this tragic example. What kind of person do you have to be? [[Voice from the courtroom: Are you the judge?]] No, I'm not a judge, but you're a judge. Worse, you're acting like prosecutors in the worst of times. And one more thing... [[Voice from the room: texting is a sentence on you.]] Ma'am! Calm down, ma'am. One more thing, there is no such thing in Polish law as the right to die, such as the right to the death of an unborn child. There's a right to life. And that is what you must remember, ladies and gentlemen. You're lying, you're wrong, you're misinformed. They're not gone. [[Voice from the room: You have blood on your hands.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u645	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u646	But, Marshal, one more sentence, please. There's no reason for it to go missing. If the child is conceived of a crime, you know that this condition has not disappeared. And also... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But this is the constitution that was introduced in your day in 1997. [[Voice from the room: It is not realized.]] And finally. One of the Members of the Left, I will not mention the name, she said that we will win. No, he's gonna win life. [[Voice from the room: We will win.]] The good will prevail over evil. May the good Lord God protect you and these unborn children. [[Voice from the room: We will win. That's how it's gonna be.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u647	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Sjojka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u648	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! In fact, I have prepared myself a statement, but I think that most of the arguments to you from the opposition are basically not getting any information or arguments. [[Nothing gets through.]] That is why I wanted to say just briefly that today I have the impression that you have shown a very high weakness, and that you, and you on the headphones, have shown a very high weakness in defending this project because many of you have deliberately repeated a lie. And I wanted to present just one example or two examples. That's the example of a patient in Pszczyna. I will refer to this case of patients from Pszczyna and patients probably from Czestochowa. [[Voice from the room: Isabella.]] [[Voice from the hall: Her name was Isabella.]] Here, as a doctor, I would like to explain very precisely to you that abortion in Poland is available in a situation of life and health threat, as in a situation of rape abortion in Poland is available. [[Voice from the room: It was just not made.]] I'm gonna say it again because you're just being resistant to information. In Poland - and as (Dawn) the doctor explains - in a situation of life and health, abortion in Poland is available. As well as in the situation of prohibited acts, such as rape, abortion in Poland is available. [[The voice from the hall: Only then the Ziobro asks...]] And in a situation where there is a danger to the life and health of a woman, abortion in Poland is available. [[The voice from the room: Why didn't he do it?]] I'll say it again. In such situations, the doctor is obliged to recognise and introduce appropriate medical procedures.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u649	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u650	If this patient died and died... [[A voice from the room: Well, such a detail.]] ...means the doctor didn't recognize the right condition and didn't have a medical procedure. I know you're gonna be lying to me about some information, but I just presented the facts. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: texting is true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u651	Thank you very much, Member. I would very much like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u652	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Seym! There are slogans here: abortion by the law of a woman, and the constitution for it: life by the law of a human being, art. 38, freedom and personal rights. Let me remind the Members of the Left that this is a constitution written by the Left and signed by the Left President. I think you forgot about that today. You have recently shouted here in the Parliament's Chamber: the rule of law, but today you are strangely silent when the provisions of the project conflict with the treaties of the European Union. Art. 2 The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, I quote: Everyone has the right to live. [[Voice from the room: Women too.]] So much for freedom. What freedom if you support records striking at the freedom of doctors by denying them the right to exercise a conscience clause? Oh, selective. But I agree with one of you (the bell), I agree with one of your slogans: that's enough. Yeah, that's enough of the lies you're serving out of that podium today. And that proves the weakness of the project if you're based on lies. Protection of life is not a matter of social agreement, and as one Member of the opposition said, the right to protection of life should be enshrined in human hearts, not in laws. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] But it's good that it's written in the laws, well that the right to protection of life is written in the laws. And I'll tell you more: let's keep it that way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u653	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u654	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the Social Initiative! The Polish People's Party was the first to speak, and is constantly talking about the need for a referendum on abortion and life. I must refer to the speech by Mrs Marty Lempart, who said a moment ago that 52% our voters and voters are in favour of legal abortion. I don't know where this data comes from, because we have different data. [[Voice from the room: from the IBRiS.]] This cannot be accepted because Poles and Poles want to hold a referendum on this matter, and I am glad that representatives of other clubs support this too. I'll support the data, too. There are two United Service surveys. Prospective survey February 2021 - 55.4% The respondents state that the rules on abortion (the bell) should be based on the results of the referendum on the subject. Another survey, for Virtual Poland, November 2021. - 57.9% voted in favour of organising a referendum on abortion law respondents. It's all available. But finally, the question is: Should men be ignored in this regard? Should we see men only in a maintenance context? They must have the right to co-decide on the further fate of their child. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Voice from the room: There is no child conceived. He has no idea.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u655	Thank you very much. Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u656	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project that we are debating, regardless of what you call it, simply concerns the right to life of the conceived child. [[Voices from the room: Women.]] Unfortunately, the project is based on bad, false assumptions regarding the basic definition of what embryo is, what fetus is. And this is basic biological and medical knowledge. Not the fetus, not the embryo. This isn't a cell cluster... [[Voice from the room: It's not a child either.]] ...and since it's not indeterminate, it's impossible to decide his life on a voluntary basis. This is the basic difference between biological and medical knowledge and what you propose in the procedated bill. We are on the side of science, knowledge (the bell), life and love. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u657	Thank you very much. I would like to ask a representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, Mrs Marta Lempart... [[Voices from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the room: Mrs Natalia Broniarczyk.]] I'm asking you to speak, ma'am. [[Applause]] I'm so sorry, ma'am. I just had the wrong information.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u658	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! For starters, I was very moved by Mrs. Iwona Hartwich's words. [[Applause]] Madam, you also spoke on behalf of my mother. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I represent the legal abortion committee today. Without compromise, but I will speak primarily on behalf of those who have been helping abortion for years. These people are doing a job... [[Voice from the room: They're breaking the law.]] ...which should belong to the state and be part of the health system. [[Applause]] The Anti-Abortion Act adopted in 1993 was never about eliminating abortion in Poland. It was only a matter of making those in need of abortion feel lonely, ashamed and isolated. The 1993 Act, so willingly referred to by politicians as a compromise... [[The voice from the hall: The truth will set you free.]] ...includes about 1% all abortions. The other 99% are abortions for other reasons. And all these reasons are important because we're important. [[Applause]] As an Abortion Without Borders, we help at least 90 people each day during a pharmacological abortion. [[They confessed.]] Every day at least four people leave with our help for abortion at a foreign clinic. [[I'm calling the D.A.'s office, and you're confessing to a crime.]] Only last year we spent over PLN 1.5 million on abortion treatments for those who couldn't afford it. And only in 2021, the total number of people who had an abortion with us was 34,000. 94 people each day, also now, after midnight, have an abortion. Unfortunately, there are people who haven't been able to help. In 2000, Alice Thousand was entitled to legal abortion - her case was one of three statutory conditions - but could not find a doctor. Everyone was holding back their consciences. Alicia lost her eyesight irreparably. Agata Lamczak died in 2004. She was five months pregnant when she was diagnosed with a severe illness. She was also denied abortion. She was dying in front of her mother. In 2008, 14-year-old Agata from Lublin was persecuted by anti-abortion organizations because some priest reported that she was in hospital. Her mother was deprived of parental rights only because she was trying to help her daughter get an abortion, trying to help her daughter who didn't want to be pregnant as a child. In 2014 the Council Chazan was cheating on his patient. He hid the birth defects from her to force her to continue her pregnancy, to force her to give birth. He made her watch the baby die. 30-year-old Iza of Pszczyna died in 2021. She orphaned a 10-year-old daughter. In the early stages of sepsis, she wrote from the hospital, "Mom, I'm lying here like an incubator. She died this morning. Politicians who are responsible for this murder tell us it's doctor negligence, and doctors tell us it's political negligence, and so on. [[Applause]] And in the shadows of your fights, we're having an abortion. [[Applause]] Now I have a question for you: Do you even care? Judging by the room, no. [[Applause]] The women I was just talking about are heroes because, despite the harm they've suffered, they've either decided or their families have done it, to publicize these stories in the care of all of us. We thank you and those who supported you. Your scream daily trumps the silence of political hypocrisy. [[Applause]] Politicians and politicians, voting for legal abortion, have a chance to restore your sense of justice and to make amends. This will not bring back those who died, but it gives us hope that Iza from Pszczyna and Agnieszka from Częstochowa were the last victims of this ban. The heroes are also all those who find ways to have abortion in Poland in spite of stigmatization. These heroes interrupt pregnancy in the care of children they already have. And now perhaps a surprise: 61% The women who had an abortion are mothers. These heroines are women who order abortion pills every day, take them in their own homes, get on trains, get on planes, borrow money for these treatments, have the courage to ask for support. The Polish ban on abortion, the 1993 one and the 2020 one, is one of the most cruel anti-abortion laws. So what if he doesn't punish us for our own abortions, if he's after those people who help us, he's helping us to do abortions without support. Fortunately, there are groups and individuals who, despite this right, have decided to support those who need abortion. One of us, Justyna Wydrzynska, who is in the O.R. today, is being charged with abortion. Justyna helped a woman who was terrorized by her husband. Justyna sent her her abortion pills. On July 14th, her second court hearing will take place. Justin's threatening three years in prison... [[Not much.]] ...for doing the country's work, for being on the side of empathy, for having the courage to help with abortions. [[Applause]] Yes, High Izbo, honored marshal, looks like an abortion reality in Poland. The law does not prevent unwanted pregnancies from abortion. A woman in an unwanted pregnancy thinks first of all about how to access abortion, how much this abortion will cost and whether she can afford it. And she's gonna have this abortion no matter what the law is. And now I would like to address politicians and politicians proposing an abortion referendum. The only legitimate abortion referendum takes place in the private bathroom on the positive outcome of the pregnancy test. [[Applause]] These referendums have a 100 percent turnout. There's no wrong answer. The question is simple: Do I want to continue this pregnancy? There's no resummation of the vote here. Whether you like it or not, it's none of your business. I know what I'm talking about because I remember being pregnant myself. I didn't check the criminal code, I didn't check the catechism, I didn't check the bill. The first thing I did was look at my bank account. Then I checked the prices of the Slovak clinics. I quickly learned that my salary is lower than the cheapest abortion in the Slovak clinic. At that time, Abortion Without Borders was not yet working, which helps to pay for the procedure. I was distraught. I ordered pills. I had an abortion Friday night. You know how I felt? I was very hungry after all. I ordered pizza, and the feeling of relief was indescribable. I can feel them all the time. [[Applause]] [[You're applauding the woman who killed the baby.]] Most people, like me, don't regret their abortion. I've never regretted it either. My abortion experience was good because I had my friend's support, I had support for women online, an organization that has been helping since 2006. [[Applause]] I had the support of a boy who was with me and never once questioned my decision. I wish this to all those who will need abortion someday. I'm trying to give that support myself. Every day as an Abortion Without Borders, we talk to people who need abortion or are in the process. We tell them, "Everything's gonna be okay, pill abortion is safe, it won't last much longer." more than a few hours. You don't have to take the day off tomorrow, you can normally go to work or school. Buy yourself some painkillers. We assure her: You are not alone, like you are millions. One in three women At least once in her life she had an abortion in Poland. On the other side of the phone we hear them telling us that they are relieved and ashamed because they feel no regrets. Then we say, "Dear, everything you feel after your abortion is okay, you don't have to explain." Honourable Members! Dear Messengers! If you know 10 women, three of them definitely had an abortion. It's very likely that you love these people, but you don't know about these abortions. To tell you about your abortion in public is to break the hypocrisy, revolution, act of courage. Katarzyna Bratkowska, Natalia Przybysz, Maria Czubaszek, Ewa Dąbrowska-Szulc and many others had this courage. I know very well that there are people in the courtroom who have had an abortion experience. Do you dare to raise your hand with me and show me how common this experience is? Thank you. [[Applause]] Abortion is a very democratic experience, bringing together people of different views, faith, place of residence, level of physical fitness, education or age. Abortion isn't just about the people who went on women's strikes. The moment to learn about unwanted pregnancy, to see these two lines on the test, this is a very often moment of verification of views. Then it turns out my life is more important than my beliefs. Then it turns out my situation is special. Believe it or not, we also have Catholic abortions, and we support them in Abortion Without Borders. [[Applause]] Then they call us and say that because of the abortion they could start their lives over, they regained their integrity, they believed that they had the right to decide about themselves. Sometimes they even say that if the God they believe in is good, then I'm sure he wants better for them, and abortion was the best solution for them. After 22 October 2020, when the tribunal tightened up the anti-abortion law - once again, because it was not the first tightening - people who were diagnosed with fetal defects began to talk to us. These rescuers are most often found in the Netherlands, where abortion is available until the 22nd week. It costs 1000 euro, but 1000 euro is also included in the price of arrival and stay. Pregnant women with fetal defects ask: Why do I have to leave my country? Why do I have to feel like a runaway? Why can't I go to the hospital and get home as soon as possible? The doctors from the Dutch clinics speak straight: Polki is now the largest group among our patients. They are patients with special needs, often injured by what happened to them in Polish hospitals. They need to be calmed down and assured that they will be helped. Polish anti-abortion policy made it necessary to go to a doctor with a lawyer's number. Preferably with a lawyer's number. FEDERY, who will tell the patient what her rights are, and the doctor will convince her that she has to save the patient's life. Dear Members, legal, available, free abortion is our business together. Vote in accordance with abortion reality today, vote in accordance with social needs. Vote for this - for yourself, for your friends, for your sisters, for your mothers, for your daughters, for your friends, for the postwoman who brings you mail, for the lady from the seym café, for the administration staff, for the lady cleaning up the seym halls, for the teacher of your children, for the nurses who strike before the Seym today, for the refugee who fled to Poland before the war. Women close to you may need an abortion someday. Vote for each other and for them. And if you vote for them, who are you gonna call when you need an abortion? [[Applause]] Honourable Members! It's time to finally take responsibility for your decisions that directly affect us all. For you, it's just a vote, for us, it's a matter of our lives. Your morality is no more important than our needs than our decisions. We had a legal abortion project on Mother's Day because mothers have abortions. Today is Father's Day, today is your chance to give your daughters an important gift - to give them their dignity taken in 1993 and trampled back in 2020. [[My daughters don't want a present like this.]] You have a chance to bring them back to life, you have a chance to give them justice and justice. [[But they don't want to.]] You can show them that you trust their decisions and believe that they know best what they want and what they need... [[But they don't want to!]] ...because we (the bell) are able to decide each other and we will decide each other. If you vote yes, you can finally get away from us. Now I would like to address President Jarosław Kaczyński, who is unfortunately not in the Chamber. No politician has ever been as close to the truth as you were to talking about the fact that every average man in Poland knows how to do an abortion. You were right to admit that your decisions have no meaning. Dear President, you spoke about the people in this Chamber - you have told the truth about yourself, about your social level, about your colleagues. Outside most people can't afford to go abroad, most people don't have anyone to leave their child in custody when they have to disappear for two days for abortion. Not everyone has a job, not everyone has a day off on demand. Fortunately, there are cheap, easily available abortion pills. The World Health Organization says that pill abortion is safe. You can use them yourself. These are pills for pharmacological abortion. [[Applause]] They are called mifepriston and mizostol - let each person know their name. Mifepriston, you swallow, after 24 hours, you take mizostol, you put it in the cheek cavity, you hold it for 30 minutes. You can order a safe abortion kit from womenhelp. org. We'll be there for you if you need us. Abortion with pills is safe, it's not a crime. You can stop your own pregnancy, you're safe even during the pregnancy registry. Don't buy pills from dealers or they'll send you regular paracetamol and rob you of money. And if you need support in abortion abroad and you can't afford surgery, call Abortion Without Borders: 22 29 22 597. [[Applause]] No matter how you vote, we're having an abortion now and we're doing it tomorrow. Thank you. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u659	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u660	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In situations where women's health and life are at risk, the decision to take appropriate medical procedures should be made very quickly. This is the only treatment that guarantees the protection of a woman's life. As national examples showed, delaying decisions ended tragically. In many cases, women who were denied the right to help died in agony. This was also how their mother's children were taken. The government has not taken any action to change this situation. Moreover, situations where public-funded healthcare establishments refuse treatment to save their health or their lives continue to be tolerated. What are the reasons why the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki treats women as second-class citizens by refusing to treat them throughout the world that could save their health or their lives? I ask you kindly to reply in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u661	In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to proceed immediately to second reading without referring the draft law to the committee. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this point - as you might listen - to thank you very much for attending the session of the Sejm, Mrs Marcie Lempart and Mrs Natalia Broniarczyk. [[Applause]] I wanted to thank the ladies and gentlemen who are in the box. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I would like to thank Members for their participation in this discussion on life. Ladies and gentlemen, half a minute's break and we're moving on to the final point, i.e. to the Members' statements. I'm calling a half-minute break, and we're doing the final point. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 1 to 6 p.m. 1 min 02]] I'm reopening the session. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 22 June. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Do any of you and your fellow Members wish to make a statement other than you? Ladies and gentlemen, we have 15 statements. I'm setting time for a statement - three minutes. I find the list closed, of course. I ask you, Mrs Wanda Nowicka of the Left Club, to make a statement. You don't have a messenger. Mr. Grzegorz Braun of the Confederation. There's no envoy. Mr Sławomir Skwarek from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr Tomasz Zieliński from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr Grzegorz Lorek of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There it is. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u662	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! On the past Sunday in Zelów, a plaque commemorating the Zelowian was unveiled. Jan Jelínk. He was born in the Czech community in Zelów, Poland, son of Pavl Jelínk and Karolina Jersákova. From 1937 to 1935, he studied at the missionary school. He became an evangelical pastor and later worked as director of a textile factory in Zelów. In 1937, he accepted the ministry function of the evangelical-refomed parish in Kupiczów in Volyn. Apart from Poles in Kupicz, which during this period was located in Poland, there were also Ukrainians and the Czechs lived. When the Russians occupied the town during World War II in 1939, he helped Poles fleeing to Romania by giving them accommodation in the parish building. After the takeover in 1941, Kupiczov was regularly preparing and delivering food for the Jews to the ghetto in Kowl. He hid them and helped them escape. He supported Poles persecuted by Soviet troops and banners. In 1942, he married Anna, with whom he voluntarily joined the army of Ludvík Svobody, commander of the First Czechoslovak Corps in 1944. Jan worked in the medical service, and Anna was the liaison. They participated actively in the dukielsko-preszowska operation and the liberation of Czechoslovakia. During the war, Jan Jelínek completed an officer's school and left the army as a lieutenant at the time of demobilization. He was awarded the Czechoslovak Valentine's Cross, the Medal of the services of the Czech Republic in the second degree, the Czechoslovakian Military Memorial Medal with the print of the USSR, the Medal for the Victory over Germany in the Great Patriotic War 1941-1945 and the Dukiel Memorial Medal. In 1948, he was promoted to lieutenant reserve. During the Volyn massacre together with Anna, he gave refuge to Poles fleeing the village affected by the aggression of UPA soldiers. After 1944, when the Germans were expelled from the region by the Red Army, Jelínek issued false documents to people persecuted by the NKVD. In April 1945, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) The Jelínks and the military got into Prague. After liberation, they settled in the village of Oráčov in the district of Rakovnik. Jan Jelínek took up the service of a priest in the parish near Podbořany. On behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czechoslovak Republic, he helped the Czech Republic to return from Poland and Ukraine to its homeland. By means of false birth certificates with the stamp of the church council of the evangelical-refomed parish in Kupiczów, he protected Russian emigrants from being sent to Soviet gulags. Since he disagreed with the communist regime, he did not support the establishment of the United Agricultural Cooperatives and refused to cooperate with the security camera, he was in prison for 3 years. After he was released, he could not stay in the country of Karlov, and therefore he could not return to Oráčov when he returned. After returning to his hometown, he was hired by his friends at a paint and varnish factory in Prague. He stayed there until he retired. He gave his sermons until 2005, that is to say, 93 years of age. He was awarded for his activities, among others. a medal of the Righteous Among the Nations awarded by the Institute of Memory of Martyrs and Heroes of the Holocaust of Your Jad in Jerusalem. In 2021, the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda posthumously awarded the medal to Virtus et Fraternitas Jan Jelínk and his wife (The Bell) for his heroic attitude in helping Poles who were victims of totalitarian systems in the 20th century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u663	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Janusz Kozik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Is it? There isn't. Mr Maciej Kopiec, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u664	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Jarosław Kaczyński theatrically resigned from the government, fleeing from responsibility, moving to her favorite role as a principal without a briefcase. He ceased to act as Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of the National Security Committee. Hydra, as you know, has a lot of heads. Jarosław's head will be replaced by the head of his command, well-known CEO, Mariusz Błaszczak. The head of the PiS stated that now he will focus on what is most important for Poland. Poland in the PiS-communist system is equal to the party, so it will now deal with the formation and maintenance of power through a campaign based on public money, state positions, politicized companies and mediocre, passive, but faithful people. Let's sum up the success of the Sun of the Jarosław Nation. The crisis at the border with Belarus, the dehumanization of immigrants, illegal push-backs, starving people and restricting media freedom, i.e. censorship, so that no one learns that the Border Guard is breaking the law and international conventions. Using a tool to fight terrorism - Pegasus - against citizens, unpunished eavesdropping and browsing the content of our mobile phones. Repressions against Members of the opposition: without Kaczyński's protests, we were gassed, stopped and terrorized on the streets. The issue of the Police Directive on proceedings carefully with people protesting against the decision of the Przyłębska Kitchen Court on abortion - people could count on gas, handcuffs, police batons, jerk and reliable prosecutor's office. The impunity of an endition that sweeps the streets and sets fire to Warsaw's apartments. Stubbornness - the hands of Zbigniew Ziobra - the justice system. Developing, supporting and financing institutions with dangerous ties to the Kremlin, such as Ordo Iuris. Permission to finance endemic militias from the Justice Fund, which, for state money, arm themselves with military equipment. There are no procedures regarding cybersecurity, as a result of a leak of data about the Polish army, as well as emails of people in the government who have become publicly available news of truth and horror. Tolerating Szumowski's actions, which with the safety of people in pandemics made profitable business on public money. Tolerating in their surroundings, and today also promoting the actions of fraudsters like Luke Meiza. Disdain for the Ombudsman, Professor Adam Bodnar. It's just a few of the most important things. If Kaczyński really wants to do something good for the security of the country, he should give his government a call to resign immediately and not compromise the European country with the Eastern drive for authoritarianism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u665	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u666	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The inhabitants of my city of Bydgoszcz are deeply concerned and outraged by the actions of the University of Nicholas Copernicus, who, failing to manage university hospitals, intends to withdraw medical care in Bydgoszcz and the region until the 1970s. Liquidation of University Hospital No. 2 im. Jan Biziel under the propaganda sign of merger or consolidation means intentionally reducing the rank of Bydgoszcz as an academic environment, increasing the queues of the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz and the region to operational procedures and specialists. It also means firing excellent doctors, nurses, and medical staff. It is a violation of the promise given by the rector and the authorities of the University of Poland to the local government of the voivodship, that the hospital will never be liquidated for teaching purposes. The inhabitants of Bydgoszcz have many, sometimes justified, pretensions that the entities located in Toruń are working for their development at the expense of the institutions and inhabitants of Bydgoszcz. This is why Bydgoszcz patients and doctors are even more outraged by the fact that a public officer from Torun, the Rector of the University of Lublin, arbitraryly and individually decides to liquidate hospital units in Bydgoszcz and thus to reduce the conditions for treating residents. I have already appealed from this place to the rector of the UMK to come to terms with and stop trying to harm the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz, but as you can see, no results. Therefore, once again I appeal to the Minister of Health and to the Members of the Law and Justice, who have ruled Poland for 7 years, govern Polish science and govern Polish health services, so that University Hospital No. 2 in Bydgoszcz will not be liquidated by the UMK under any banner and under any propaganda pretext. And once again I appeal to the Minister of Science and Education, to the Minister of Health and to my colleagues from the Health Commission to not block efforts to establish the Medical University in Bydgoszcz on the basis of our Bydgoszcz hospitals and to agree to continue training of medical personnel at the College Medicum UMK in Toruń based on hospitals in Toruń. I know that the Rector of the UMK and politicians from Torun are afraid of the Bydgoszcz competition, but universities and university competition are one of the fundamentals of scientific development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u667	Thank you very much. I invite you, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u668	Private Mr Kaczyński! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are limits in this Seym even to the citizens' project, so there is no way to ask questions in the debate. Therefore, using this statement, I would like to appeal before tomorrow's vote. We have a solution ready on the table - abortion must finally be safe and legal. Let's legalize it and then join the civilized world. Once and for all, let us determine what the rest of mankind has already established: a woman has full rights, including the right to decide about her own body. If religion, beliefs, or beliefs forbid abortion, then let's just He doesn't do it. 62% Poles and Poles support the liberalisation of the law, and among people between 30 and 39 years of age it is 99%, i.e. these are the people concerned. Dear fellow Members, we have a unique opportunity tomorrow to finally legalise abortion and to end this debate once and for all. Let's do it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u669	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u670	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 14 June 1940 The Germans have activated the death machine. Nine days ago, on behalf of the Coalition Left Club, I attended the celebrations... Excuse me, my friend, please calm down, because I'm talking about something very serious and sad. ...I participated in the celebration of the National Remembrance Day of the Victims of the Nazi German Concentration Camps and the Holocaust Camps. I lay a wreath in front of the Pawiak Prison Museum in Warsaw. First of all, prisoners of concentration camps took part in the ceremony, and Stanisław Zalewski spoke poignantly on their behalf. Many Polish families have this terrible past in their heart. My family, too. We must always remember what happened during the war. I was surprised that the Marshal of the Sejm and other parliamentary clubs outside our club were not represented at this ceremony. Sad.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u671	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Glenc, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr Jacek Decoration. There isn't. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mrs Karolin Pavlichak, parliamentary club of the Left. There it is. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u672	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, I want to come forward and present the dramatic appeals of two professional groups. But I also stress that protesters in a situation of growing social unrest will arrive every day. Today, under the Seym, the nurses and midwives protested for a decent wage, work and respect. Health workers are not at the expense, as today's authorities show, of value, added value to this whole broken and broken system. They demanded, among others. financial security for increases and recognition of qualifications held. This was so close, because these assumptions were included in the amendments of the Senate to the Law on the Lowest Salaries, but in principle they were rejected by the PiS-owska majority in the Seym Health Commission. This is how the right-wing law in Poland is written - to the detriment of workers. The second dramatic appeal is a letter from the Social Insurance Institution directly addressed to the Prime Minister. The answers, of course, dear workers, will never be answered. This is disregard for a large social group whose current salaries are in no way adequate to the number and extent of tasks performed. As a result of the enormous scope of tasks, there is no increase in salaries of employees, equipment for the workstations necessary to perform them or decent working conditions. It's all about requirements. This is a warning that the bet crew is determined to take radical action in this situation. Since March 2020, i.e. since the outbreak of the pandemic, there have been a great deal of tasks and responsibilities on ZUS employees. This has contributed to the payment of welfare allowances for parents of children whose institutions have closed down, solidarity allowances or the handling of individual shields for entrepreneurs. The increase of tasks and the further burden of benefits for Ukrainian citizens is currently underway. Plus, there's bullying workers and mobbing, talking about firing those who take strike action. And here people working are the biggest capital of this institution, and only thanks to them were it possible to make positive changes and to implement huge labour expenditures as part of the tasks imposed. Don't despise the workers, PiS-owska, don't despise what they ask. After all, it is a struggle for survival in a country created by you, a fight for honor, dignity and respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u673	Thank you very much. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u674	Dear Marshal, Thank you so much for allowing me to add myself to these statements. Especially in view of the late hour I direct these thanks, as well as expressions of outrage towards the shape of the current Sejm rules, in view of what is important in such matters, such as the citizens' project aimed at standardising Polish rules on abortion, legalising abortion, abortion in Poland, is taking place. Unfortunately, during a normal debate there is no possibility to ask questions, there is no possibility to discuss. I wanted to say something very important. Namely among less than a thousand people, where evacuations from war areas of Ukraine were directly involved, there was a 20-year-old resident of Mariupola, who was the victim of sexual violence and rape by the Russian army. When we evacuated her to Opole, the first thing we had to do was set up a gynecological visit for this woman. The gynecologist said she was pregnant as a result of this sexual violence. This was the moment that this 20-year-old Mariupola found out that we evacuated her not to the free world, but to the hell of women. It was a moment when it turned out that this doctor had no legal opportunity to perform the legal abortion of this embryo derived from a beastly, criminal act of war, a war crime. The only thing we could do was take this poor, traumatized 20-year-old Mariupola apartment to Opole PKP station and take her a ticket to Berlin, because it is there that her right to decide about her own body, her right to return to relative normality can be respected. Hence, my statement is an expression of great outrage and, at the same time, of the hope that the proposal for legal abortion will find support in this House. I very much thank the representatives of the Legislative Initiative Committee, who today presented the assumptions of this project in this very hostile to the rights of women in the House, where most radicals dominate and have the majority - radicals who think only of what they call their conscience, ignoring completely what the foundation of women's rights is, namely the right to decide about their own body. Therefore, I believe that no referendum has the right to be held on human rights and that the right to legal abortion is the fundamental human right, the right of every woman. That is why tomorrow or actually today (the bell), because it is after hours. 24, I will vote in favour of further proceeding on this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u675	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u676	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, I will raise a very important topic of deduction in the PIT declaration of expenditure incurred for the purchase of medicines. Every year, during the settlement of PIT, persons with disabilities who incurred costs related to the purchase of medicines could deduct these costs in their PIT declaration. I ask the open question: Will the relief for medicines disappear after 2022?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u677	Declaration on the European Union's energy policy and the return to coal energy Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Netherlands announces an increase in the production of coal-fired power plants in order to reduce dependence on Russian gas. Germany's gas shortages also want to compensate with coal. The German Minister of Economy said that it was bitter, but simply inevitable. And this is the key word to the whole of the European Union's green policy. Inevitably, Polish mines were to be extinguished, and green energy was to be avoided in households. The Government of Law and Justice takes care of Poles, cutting speculations of the owners of fuel depots and subsidising the coal levy. Poland - a country rich in coal raw materials will not punish citizens for failing to comply with the green requirements of EU dignitaries, which were only a front for the creation of Nord Stream I and Nord Stream II. It is therefore necessary to establish the European Union's energy balance together with the declarations of demand and, above all, to meet the energy deficits in each country. However, it is obvious that German coal, which is burned in a German power plant, no longer pollutes air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u678	Declaration on Physical Culture Day In my statement today, I would like to draw attention to the 22nd June Day of Physical Culture. The essence of this day emphasizes in a special way that the undertaken physical activity has a salvific effect on the whole body. This day is aimed primarily at promoting physical activity and healthy lifestyles. It is clearly associated with the culture of society, which also consists of internal concern for one's own well-being and mental and physical health. Physical activity affects the health condition, also increasing the body's immunity, which is why it seems essential that we remember this sphere of our life and not neglect it. A positive change in the perception of physical activity through new fields, growing fitness clubs or walking paths has been observed for many years, resulting in the number of people attending particular sports activities and activities. Every year there are people who declare at least moderate physical activity. Despite the growing demand for movement and active spending of free time by society, the inhibition of this process was the COVID-19 pandemic, which caused negative changes in the physical activity of many people. Although many people had far more free time than usual in the pandemic era, this did not translate into increased physical activity. I would like my statement to serve to highlight the essence and purpose that sounds out of the meaning of the day. Thanks to activity we increase the body's immunity, we are stronger and confident, so it is worth spending time and celebrating this holiday at least three times a week, although in a moderate way, and the body will thank us for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u679	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! June 10th this year There was an extremely interesting and important scientific conference in the Seym: "People's universities facing the challenges of modern times." The conference was accompanied by the opening of an occasional exhibition devoted to the history and development of Polish folk universities. During the conference, representatives of these institutions, public administration and the world of science discussed the possibility of active participation in the debate about the Polish model of folk universities, and also had an opportunity to learn about the new innovative dimension of their activities. During this event we had the opportunity to get acquainted with the rich offer and program variety of these facilities. What is worth noting, it was the first meeting in 1939 in the Polish Sejm of representatives of environments forming a grundtvig school. They were created by the Danish pastor, philosopher and writer Nikolai Frederik Severin Grundtvig. In the 19th century, he created the concept of folk universities to serve as schools for people over the age of 18. In Polish lands the first folk universities began to be established in the Russian occupation, and the symbolic date of their creation was 1900, in which the gardening farm in Beelin was opened. The programme of these out-of-school educational institutions was based on the pedagogy of a community built on deep human relationships reaching the sources of folk culture. They placed and gave the opportunity for a wider understanding of development. Today, in today's challenges, they also have an interesting role to play. They may be an alternative to other educational offers. I would like to thank the initiator and the organizer of the event by Barbara Dziuk, President of the Parliamentary Group for. The development of the Rural and Municipal Houses, and all those preparing the conference to refresh the idea of folk universities, which constitute an important educational proposal and form part of a new model of lifelong learning. I am convinced that the conference in the Sejm will initiate and open a broad public debate on the role of contemporary folk universities and the challenges they face and will contribute to the emergence of further ones.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u680	High Izbo! Recently, we have been able to see Members and Ministers of the current government drive around our district and hand out various pages of promises. It was similar to the ruby scenes from the films of the unsatisfied Barei, who showed absurdity of the Polish People's Republic with a savage. They gave promises, and the recipients were obliged to express their thanks, low prostrations, and to place clear photos on social media and on the offices' websites. All that was missing was the cloves. This whole situation shows how in a pill the pathology of the PiS government, which is closer to the standards of a deep commune than of European civilization. Handed cards are so-called. investment projects. This is to be a specific compensation for municipalities for lost tax revenues after the so-called. Polish Lada, which is the biggest tax scam of the last 30 years. In theory, they are meant to provide funds for selected investments. However, it is worth looking closer to this financial pyramid. Firstly, if this authority had not taken away the profits from the municipalities, compensation would have been unnecessary. Our villages and cities would not have to submit applications to Warsaw's power. The council of the municipalities would decide for themselves what to spend money on. And no one would have to bow down in the generous belt of our taxes to Members and Ministers. Secondly, promenades will not compensate for reduced income. So-called. Polish Ład has trained more of our money from the municipalities than was promised to return in promenades. Thirdly, it is not known whether these promises will be fulfilled. Investment targets were set many months ago. Since then, PiS-cost and PiS-inflation have destroyed prices, especially in construction. In many cases, there is no chance of making the notified investments for the money promised. In addition, in order to make it difficult for municipalities to implement promes, the PiS government introduced strict conditions for their use. Many municipalities in Poland are no longer able to reach for the promised funds. So it may turn out that it will be just as it will be with the other promises of the current authority. They'll only stay on paper. Fourthly, they didn't make promises for themselves. They hacked into our hard-earned money we paid taxes on. We all noticed that in such an embarrassing way not even PRL-wowski notable behaved. This situation shows a lack of respect for the current power for hardworking citizens. Seeing the pathological behaviour of the authorities, we have developed together with experts of the movement Poland 2050 proposals for simplifying taxes for citizens and guaranteeing income for local governments, i.e. all of us. In terms of income taxation, we propose a uniform tax rate, which is simple and easy to settle taxes, and a reduction in VAT. In terms of local government revenue - increase of participation in PIT and CIT and additional participation in VAT. Already 3-percent copy of local government in VAT requested by Poland 2050 would automatically mean about PLN 7 billion more for kindergartens, schools, sidewalks, roads, culture or sport in local governments. In the democratic country that we want Poland to be, the transfer of funds should be based on adopted, transparent and permanent mechanisms. This would make it possible for local governments to plan and implement expenditure and investment in the long term. It's all for the benefit of the locals. This is a vision of Poland 2050 Simon the Holovni.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-22-sejm-57-1.u681	I am ordering an adjournment to this day, i.e. On 23 June 2022, by 11 p.m. 9:00 a.m. I would like to thank the empty hall for being able to conduct its deliberations in such peace because the room is empty. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 1 min 25]]
