ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u1	Please take your seats. Here we go, ladies and gentlemen. I'm opening... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal Kaminski, Mr. Senator Ujazdowski, Mr. Senator Świlski and everyone else... [[Voices from the hall: Shh...]] Please take your seats. I open the thirty-nineth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Mariusz Gromka, Senator Alexander Sweed, Senator Richard Świlski and Senator Jerzy Wcisla to the sitting. The list of speakers will be followed by Senator Mariusz Gromko and Jerzy Wcisła. Dear Senators, in connection with the outbreak, after consulting the Senior Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a special formula. The meetings will be held at the same time in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication, i.e. remotely, as governed by the rules set out in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal, under which you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Marshal and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Office. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. I therefore ask that you give any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted and so many are currently attending the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its 50th meeting on 11 and 12 March this year, adopted the only amendment tabled by the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Foreign Trade in Goods, Technologies and Services of strategic importance for State security, as well as for the maintenance of international peace and security and the Act on the Military Property Agency. In addition, it accepted part of the Senate's amendments notified to the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in its territory. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the thirty-sixth meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I inform you that the minutes of the thirty-seventh Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to make available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that points 3rd, 6th, 8th, 9th, 11th, 12th and 13th of the draft agenda be considered, even though the committee's reports on these items have been submitted at a later date than referred to in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose to change the order of consideration of the previous paragraph 13th: second reading of the draft law on amending the Law on forests and consider it as second point; the ninth point so far: the Law amending the Law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and certain other laws and consider it as a third point. This is the implementation of requests for resorts in this matter. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose to supplement the agenda with points: second reading of the draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine The second reading of the draft resolution on honoring the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 on the 25th anniversary of its adoption and considering it as the 15th point. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? At the same time, I will warn you that today in the Sejm 2 additional laws on the issue of war in Ukraine may be adopted, and if so, tomorrow 'Cause they're urgent laws. We will consider them last. That's the thing that's probably going to happen. The vote on the points to be met today is planned tomorrow after the 1997 Constitution. And these laws, which will come from the Sejm, will be voted out after their examination, I hope tomorrow afternoon or evening. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the thirty-nineth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland. I mentioned that urgent laws from the Sejm could be affected. These are the law on amending the standard of digital terrestrial broadcasting, the law on amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine, and the second law on specific regulations on transport and maritime affairs in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine, concerning the working hours of railroaders and seafarers engaged in the war in Ukraine. If these amendments are adopted by the Sejm, the committee's meetings on the subject are scheduled tomorrow morning and the agenda may be extended to include items on the examination of these laws. I would like to inform you that the vote on point 1 will be held today immediately after its consideration. Tomorrow we will begin the session at 10.00 a.m. from the examination of paragraph 15: the second reading of the draft resolution on honoring the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 on the 25th anniversary of its adoption. The vote will also take place immediately after considering this point. Then, as I said, we will proceed with the vote on the points that have been dealt with today. After these votes, we will consider the above mentioned laws that will be passed today by the Sejm and vote on them at the end of the Senate meeting. Today at 12.00 a half-hour break will be announced in the session for the opening of the exhibition devoted to Prof. Bronisław Geremek Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that on 23rd, 24th and 25th March there will be a long-term retreat for Members and Senators. Today they begin at 8:00 p.m. at St. Aleksandra at pl. Three crosses, and Thursday and Friday at 7:30 in the Seym Chapel. I would add that the Convention approved a one-day change of one of its April meetings, not 28 and 29 April, only 27 and 28 April. Please bear this in mind when planning your activities. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on commemoration of the 80th anniversary... [[Senator...]] Yes? Oh, there you go. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! You died Professor Marian Zembala, my colleague, who graduated from the Wrocław Medical Academy in 1974, very well-known surgeon, transplantologist, long-term director of the cardiosurgery center, Minister of Health. Please, let's honor his memory with a minute of silence. The funeral will take place next Saturday in Katowice. [[Everybody up.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[Voices from the hall: And let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Voices from the room: Amen.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u3	So we begin to consider the item of the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the exit of the Polish Army from inhuman soil and the creation of the Polish Army in the East. I would like to welcome Ambassador Anna Maria Anders, Ambassador of the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Republic of Poland to the Italian Republic and the Republic of San Marino, our colleague from the previous term of office; Mr Mateusz Szpytma, Deputy Chairman of the IPN Committee on the pursuit of crimes against the Polish Nationals, and Mr Andrzej Bida, Director General of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 663, and the report "Print No 663 S." I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Marek Komorowski, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u4	Dear Ambassador, Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! This resolution commemorates 2 events: the 80th anniversary of the exit of the Polish Army, called Anders' Army, from the Soviet Union, i.e. from inhuman soil, and the 80th anniversary of the creation of the Polish Army in the East. It is a tribute to Polish soldiers fighting within this army, the command of the Polish Armed Forces during World War II, and especially to General Władysław Anders, an outstanding Pole and an outstanding commander. Of course in content and form, especially in the content of the resolution... In such a short text, it is difficult to say all the elements, but the committee tried to simply highlight the most important issues. You can say that the resolution consists of several parts. The first refers to the cruelty of war on the civilian population, which was not directly involved in the war. Mass deportations in 1940 and 1941 into the Soviet Union... It is estimated that even about 1.5 million Poles have been exported. The Poles remained there without the prospect of returning. Many did not survive transport itself, as well as conditions of residence and work beyond human forces. The Polish nation was in a tragic position at that time. However, Germany's attack on the Soviet Union in the framework of the operation changed the geopolitical situation. The conversations began. Gen. Sikorski, chief commander, the Prime Minister of the Polish Government began talks about the creation of the Polish Army in the Soviet Union. Another part of the resolution mentions these circumstances. The Polish army began to be formed, but the circumstances of its creation, residence and training were not easy. Anders' army was an example of an army that represented the entire national mosaic of the Second Republic. There were Jews, Ukrainians, Belarusians, Lithuanians, Poles of various denominations. However, discrepancies in the use of the Polish army in war activities and the deterioration of Polish-Soviet relations resulted in the evacuation of the Polish Army to Iran. From the army, which came from exiles and equestrians, General Anders managed to create an army of winners and this is what the final part of the resolution says about it. The Italian campaign where Gustav's break in the Battle of Monte Cassino was crucial, but it was also important to break the Goth line in the Battle of Ancona or in the Battle of Bologna. The army was vibrant with cultural life, which strengthened its morale. She ran schools. The army had a firm faith in victory. General Władysław Anders himself for about 115 people evacuated from the Soviet Union was like the biblical Moses, who led them out of the house of captivity, from the inhuman land through Persia to Palestine, those 115 thousand people, but the goal was to bring them to Poland. Gen. Anders led an army out of Soviet hell. The Drama of the Anders Army, but not only the Anders Army, was a lack of opportunity to return to Poland after the war, because the return involved a great risk of being in a communist prison and being subjected to persecution. Here I would like to quote the words of Pope John Paul II: There is no place in the world that does not resemble a Polish soldier fighting for independence, and there is no fair Europe without an independent Poland on its map. And at the conclusion of this report, I would like to quote the words of General George Patton, an outstanding American general during World War II, about the Anders Army from his memories in the book War. When I met her. Gen. Patton recalls: Polish troops look best of all I've ever seen, including British and American. At its meeting on 17 March, ladies and gentlemen, the committee adopted a draft resolution with amendments. At the very end, I would like to quote the text of the Senate resolution on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the exit of the Polish Army from inhuman soil and the creation of the Polish Army in the East. In 1940-1941, the Soviet authorities then carried out mass deportations to Siberia of the Polish population from the Polish territories occupied by the Soviet Union. Conditions in Siberia were terrible, and mortality was high. Many Poles died of hunger, cold, disease and exhaustion caused by superhuman physical work. It was only on 30 July 1941 that Władysław Sikorski signed the agreement with Ivan Majski in London and announced on 12 August 1941 the amnesty for the exiles gave the possibility of creating Polish Armed Forces under the command of General Władysław Anders to the deported and Polish prisoners of the Gulags. The amnesty lasted only until 16 January 1943. During that time the Polish Army called Anders' Army began to be formed, where Polish citizens of different nationalities found themselves. The conditions for the formation of this Army were very difficult. The number of food rations for the Army was reduced to 30,000 at about 70,000 soldiers. Without seeing the prospect of improving the situation of the Polish Army, General Władysław Anders obtained on 18 March 1942 permission from the Soviet authorities to evacuate to Iran soldiers who constituted an surplus of more than 44 thousand. From 24 March to 5 April 1942, the Polish Army was evacuated. During this time Polish-Soviet relations deteriorated significantly and after the intervention of British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, the Soviet authorities agreed to evacuate the entire Polish Army to Iran. The second part of the evacuation of the Polish Army was carried out from 9 August to 1 September 1942. In total, about 115 thousand people were evacuated from the territory of the Soviet Union, including more than 37 thousand civilians, among whom there were nearly 14,000 children. Then, by order of the Supreme Chief of the Polish Armed Forces General Władysław Sikorski of 12 September 1942, the Polish Armed Forces in the USSR and the Polish Army in the Middle East were formed the Polish Army in the East and its commander was General Władysław Anders. Within the framework of it, 2 were created on 21 July 1943. Polish Corps The higher tactical union, which was the core of the Polish Armed Forces in the West, fighting in the British composition 8. The army in the Italian campaign, among others. in the battle of Monte Cassino for breaking the Gustav Line, the Battle of Ancona and the Battle of Bologna. The contribution of the Polish Army to the East, including 2. The Polish Corps, in the final victory in the Second World War, is invaluable, and the Polish Army and Polish soldiers became the Army of the Winners. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, convinced of the special importance of the Polish Army in the East for the fate of the Second World War, pays tribute to all its soldiers, our Heroes. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. And to conclude, yesterday in the Senate there was also a conference devoted to this subject. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and, at the same time, to the authorised representative of the applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, who works remotely, has signed up. [[Voices from the room: No, he's gone.]] [[Voice from the room: Remotely.]] Is Senator Jackowski available? [[I am, of course. Am I the marshal...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ambassador! Dear Mr. Vice President of the Institute of National Remembrance! Dear guests! I would like to thank Senator Mark Komorowski very warmly for this initiative, which brought such beautiful fruit in the form of this draft resolution, which was very carefully followed during the meeting of the Legislative Commission. I would like to thank all the members of the committee very much. for a very constructive atmosphere during this discussion. This showed that this resolution was well refined from the language side, but also the substantive side. I will not summarize this discussion, it is all included in the minutes and transcripts of the committee meeting. Nevertheless, it is worth to emphasize the good atmosphere of cooperation between senators, who often have different views on issues from the latest history of Poland when it comes to historical discussions. I would also like to stress that this resolution is of particular importance in the situation in which we are currently in Europe. I'm thinking about the situation after February 24th this year, and so about the beastly war that's going on with our eastern neighbor. I think that this resolution, which refers to the events of the past, concerns the same great imperialism, brutality, disregarding human rights, with civilizational standards in achieving its political, military and other goals, also takes on an additional context. And in this way the draft resolution, even though it refers to events from the past, shows the drama of the countries of Central Europe and Central and Eastern Europe, which directly Whether in Tsaric times or in the times of Soviet communism or in other times, they experienced it based on the self-carriage of the Greater imperialism. And that, too, should be remembered here. And one more note at the end. In fact, during this discussion, a question was raised about the formulation of the land of inhumanity. I believe, High Izbo, that for our generation, the great book by Józef Czapski, who was a close associate of General Anders and, after all, carried out a search mission for missing officers at the time when the Polish army was formed in the Soviet Union under the Majajski-Sikorski agreement of 1941, from December 1941. It shows what Utopian Soviet communism meant, how it approached man, human rights, the laws of nations. And the fact that in the draft resolution we used this wording, which is obvious to us... It is worth recalling the character of Józef Czapski, an outstanding Polish painter, a writer, and above all the hero of World War II, a person who played a very important role in the creation of the Polish Army of General Anders and who also played her entire life, then emigration in France... And Józef Czapski died in Maisons-Laffitte, so in the place where the culture was published, so well deserved for Polish culture, issued by Jerzy Giedroycia on emigration. It is also worth recalling this figure of Józef Czapski in the context of the proposed resolution. As well as the character mentioned in the text of General Władysław Anders, who is the hero of our history, the hero of the history of Europe and whose thoughts, achievements Also publications, because he was also a writer and published very important books No, they show that in an excellent way he was able to diagnose the essence of Greater imperialism. Thank you very much again, Senator Komorowski. Thank you for your vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u7	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, senators. Alphabetically Janusz Gromek, Aleksander Szwed and Alice Zając made speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. You're welcome. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the Polish Army's exit from inhuman soil and the creation of the Polish Army in the East. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 1]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the exit of the Polish Army from inhuman soil and the creation of the Polish Army in the East. I ask you to approach the presidential table of Ambassador Anna Maria Anders, because I would like to present your resolution to the Senate. [[Applause]] [[Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Poland in the Italian Republic and the Republic of San Marino Anna Maria Anders: Thank you all with all your heart for the initiative, for your support. It's good to be here with you.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u8	We proceed to the second agenda: second reading of the draft law on amending the Law on forests. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and is included in print No. 619, and the committee report In print No 619 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Environment Committee and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, to present a joint report of the draft law to the Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u9	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Marshal of the Senate on 25 January this year. addressed to the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, the Committee on the Environment and the Legislative Committee a draft law amending the Law on Forests to be considered at first reading. According to the current legal state, the approval of the plan for the installation of the forest is not subject to appeal to the administrative court, but according to the Convention, drawn up at Aarhus on 25 June 1998, on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters which bind the Republic of Poland and, according to EU legislation, the public, including non-governmental organisations, should have access to courts in environmental matters. The lack of judicial control of forest installation plans was identified by the European Commission as one of the allegations in the complaint lodged on 15 July Ub. to the Court of Justice of the European Union. The proposed project recommends among others. Such amendments: the introduction of the right to challenge the approval of a forest installation plan by means of judicial and administrative proceedings, the granting of a card to lodge a complaint for the approval of a forest installation plan or for the approval of a simplified plan for forest equipment not only to operators authorised under general rules but also to environmental organisations, provided that they carry out their statutory environmental or nature protection activities for a minimum of 12 months before the date of the complaint. I would also like to emphasise that it is our country's duty as a member of the European Union to implement EU directives. In this case, the Directive was not fully implemented. We propose that this complement to the implementation should concern environmental organisations carrying out statutory environmental or nature conservation activities, any person who has a legal interest in bringing a complaint, in particular forest owners, prosecutors, ombudsman and ombudsman. Of course, at the committee meeting we had government representatives and representatives of various organizations. I will provide you with brief information on the evaluation of this project by our guests. The Minister for Climate and Environment, a representative of the Government for Forestry and Hunting, expressed a negative opinion on the conduct of these legislative work; according to the Minister, until the Court of Justice of the European Union has delivered a judgment declaring Poland's infringement of Union law, these work should be stopped. In addition, he had many comments on the solutions contained in the project. First of all, it considered that this proposal was contrary to the administrative control system of administrative activities before the administrative courts and it was not clear what allegations could be made in the complaints. The Directorate-General of the State Forests also negatively assessed the project, both in normative content and in justifications, inter alia. pointing out that the Polish Government is of the opinion that the provisions of the Aarhus Convention do not confer on environmental organisations the right to challenge forest plans before the courts. The Polish Forests Association in the Republic of Poland requested the withdrawal of the project. He believes that we should wait for the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Commission. The National Secretariat of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection and Forestry NSZZ (Solidarity) also expressed a negative opinion, quoting the same arguments as the Directorate-General of State Forests and the Polish Forest Association in the Republic of Poland. The Ombudsman said that the direction of the proposed amendment deserves approval. However, he asked for clarification of certain entries. The Polish Association of Judges of Administrative Courts responded positively to the project. It considers that Poland is obliged to comply with the Aarhus Convention and that access to justice also applies to the approval of forest planning and simplified forest planning, regardless of whether the forest is owned by the State Treasury or is a private forest. The association raised doubts as to the nature of the project's members who were able to challenge the plan for the setting up of the forest. It considered, inter alia, that these powers should apply to environmental organisations claiming their statutory objectives, provided that they are engaged in environmental or nature conservation activities for a minimum of 12 months before the date of the complaint. These records were included in the project. The National Agricultural Support Centre and the Polish Districts Association have proposed some changes, among others. refer only to the approval of forest planning plans and not to those simplified forest planning plans prepared by the old lady. The workshop for All Beings, Greenpeace Poland and the Frank Bold Foundation assessed the legislative initiative as valuable and necessary. The National Judicial Council and the Silesian Association of Municipalities and Districts have not submitted any comments. Then I'm asking you to... I would also like to inform you that the committees at the joint meeting on 2 March considered, at first reading, the draft law presented by the applicants and amended it, and now they are asking for the adoption by the Senate of a uniform draft law amending the Law on forests and a draft resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. Thank you very much. May I add that, after the adoption by the Sejm and the Senate of this law, it will enter into force 14 days after the publication in the Official Journal of the Laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u10	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. The applicants have authorized Senator Joanna Sekula to represent them. [[Danuta Jazłowiecka. Mrs. Joanna Sekuła... Mr. Marshal, Mrs. Joanna Sekuła, because of...]] Oh, she's sick, so that you... yes, you're replacing her. Good. [[On this occasion, I would like to thank my colleague, Mrs Joannie Sekule, who has prepared this project very honestly. This required a lot of work. Thank you for preparing this project.]] Thank you. The question is Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u11	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, that didn't come out of that report... I have been to all committee meetings and I would like you to highlight the positive features of this very good draft law on forests, especially in the context of what is happening to Polish forests in recent years, i.e. there is an excessive logging of forests and many issues need to be sorted out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u12	Thank you. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u13	Thank you very much, Senator, for that question. Indeed, rather long-term discussions at committee meetings were held when we talked about how huge quantities of wood we cut. Last year it was 40 million 127 thousand m3 and the plan for the current year is 40 million 408 thousand m3. These are huge amounts. Out of this last year, 4 million m3 were exported from Poland, and an additional 4 million actually went up in smoke. We also discussed the need for a large participation in the preparation and presentation of forest planning, but also in general societies, which will be able to control how these plans are prepared and, above all, what actions are being taken, how these actions are carried out, because very large numbers of forests are being cut out outside of these plans, without agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u14	Thank you. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a few questions, but let's start with the most obvious ones. The first question concerns the question of the procedure pursued by the TSUE. Does the senator know when there might be a verdict and if there have been any preliminary findings? Maybe not so much a finding as a preliminary suggestion as to what this judgment might be, because such a preliminary statement is usually published. That's the first line. Two. Why should this bill work backwards? And in an unlimited way, because art. 2 of this law states that it is possible to apply it to all plans approved earlier before the entry into force of this law. And maybe the third question, I can fit in time. The original version also included the rights of owners of private forests. Why did it come out? Why aren't they here? Maybe they didn't fall out, then I'd ask for a corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u16	Thank you. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u17	Thank you very much, Senator, for these questions. With regard to the first question concerning the judgment of the TSEU, I do not know when this judgment will fall, but at the committee's meeting it was mentioned that . and, above all, the Government's comments. That we should not change this law before this sentence is passed. As the applicant, we disagree, we do not think that we should wait until the sentence is passed, and perhaps our country will be punished. In fact, the changes that we are proposing are, first of all, changes related, once, to the implementation of the Directive, two, to the implementation of the Convention. And it doesn't really make sense to wait for the TSUE's sentence. It's just a minor problem that's been running for two years now, if I remember correctly. With regard to the application of the law backwards That was your second question. The Act provides that organisations wishing to lodge a complaint against plans for forest equipment approved prior to the entry into force of the Law will only be able to do so within 30 days. So there will be a very shortened period when such plans can be challenged. This is a limiter that will ensure that you will be able to reduce complaints on a very high scale. As far as private owners are concerned, private owners are included in this bill, so they will also be able to sue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u18	Senator, you're welcome... No, no, I'm sorry. Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I would like to ask you something because the amendment introduces the right to challenge plans for forest equipment by administrative procedure. In the impact assessment, we have information that this will not affect the income side of the public finance sector. We are aware that the State Forests are running the forest economy all the time. The action which the operators mentioned here might bring will, if any, suspend the implementation of the plan for the installation of the forest. Do you really believe that this is what we read in the OSR, which means that the complaint will not harm the financial revenues of the State Forests? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u20	You asked Senator Gogacz. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u21	Thank you for that question. Mr. Senator, we haven't talked about such details, because there's really no specific data to determine how this will affect the financial side. In recent years, however, we have seen a very sloppy preparation of law and equally sloppy preparation of plans for forest equipment. There is a very large phenomenon of deforestation outside these plans. We hope that the possibility for organisations to lodge a complaint or, in general, civil society will force these plans to be prepared in a very reliable manner.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u22	Thank you. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, a few questions. There's no limit here, in terms of issues, I'd call it, not so much territorial property, but where such an environmental organization... It is about its operation in the territory concerned, within the organisational unit concerned. The complaint can be submitted by any organization from all over the country anywhere, even by the way, not interested in a given forest area or a given protected complex. On the other hand, I don't think they can. I don't know if they can; you can explain it. To submit those who are reasonably interested in the subject, e.g. local authorities. The question is: why in this way we favor very much different environmental organisations? [[Timer signal]] And an extra question. Are these organizations financially responsible for any damage that will not be done so much... It is about the damage that the operators will suffer in connection with the introduction of these provisions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u24	There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u25	Thank you, Senator, for that question. Indeed, the law does not contain elements related to territorial property, and it can actually happen that the organization from one end of Poland will protest against the plan of the installation of the forest from the other end of Poland, but please remember that the action will be brought before the court and the court will take due account of this complaint. However, we provide in this draft law that the organisation must meet specific conditions, must demonstrate experience, must function for at least 12 years and show what work it has in this operation, to what extent it is a reliable organisation. Then she'll be able to file such complaints. So here we are hoping for the integrity of all sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u26	Thank you. Senator Piech...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u27	I'm sorry. What about the organization's financial responsibility, e.g. for issues related to losses of entities which, as a result of filing a lawsuit, would suffer such losses? What if the lawsuit doesn't work?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u28	Mr. Senator, come to the question. Oh, there was a question, it sounded... Yes or no? You didn't answer. [[Yeah, there was a question. I can answer that, can't I?]] Yeah, yeah. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u29	Mr. Senator, these will be court decisions. The court will determine the consequences of this complaint. There will also be financial consequences if they have to.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u30	Thank you. Senator Piech.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have this question: what was the size of wood resources in Poland in 2019? Do you have that information or not? Well, listen to me. As far as wood resources are concerned, we have reached 2 billion 656 million m3 gross roughness in state forests, generally in forests in Poland. In 2015, these resources were smaller, amounting to 2 billion 491 million m3. So we've grown 150 million m3 of this thick wood in the woods, and you say the woods are being cut. [[Senator, ask the question.]] Well, I'm just saying, do you know these numbers and have you read the report on the state of the forest, for example? of 2014 and 2019? On what grounds do you claim that these woods are being cut out?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u32	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u33	Thank you for that question. Mr. Senator, this isn't just my claim. In fact, the whole of Poland sees the situation of state forests, how They're being cut. When it comes to wooding and cutting, we cut down trees that are several, several decades old, and even over 100 years old. This is a completely different quality than those of the current forests, which are up to half a meter long... This is a completely different quality of the forest.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u34	Senator Piech. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u35	So what is the average age of forests in Poland? You know? [[No, sir. I don't know about that.]] At the moment, 62 years old. And you say we're cutting... [[Mr. Senator, this is a question, not a discussion. I draw your attention.]] Good. [[Do you have a question?]] And the second question about wooding. [[First.]] The reduction in forest area observed in recent years is due to the criteria for granting private land for forestry under the Rural Development Programme. That's what's causing the alder to be at one point, not another. Well, for example. In 2015, only 5.7% of the population were wooded. the area to be forested. It was 2015. So what were we doing then? And why wasn't it protested then? [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u36	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u37	Thank you, Senator, for that question. I can't tell you what the average age of the forest is today, but it's certainly not 60 years, just like you said. I don't know what year your statistics are. [[For the period from 2019 ……]] Yeah, it's really changed a lot over the last three years, Mr. Senator. And as far as the second part of your question is concerned, we have not had this discussion, and it is difficult for me to answer that question. Back to this year, 2,000... Which one? [[2015.]] Mr. Senator, you've just quoted the data on the woods. It is a pity that we do not confront this with data on logging. I think that would actually be a fair comparison. The transmission of only such partial data is indeed distorting the image. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator... [[One more question.]] But, Senator, I have an announcement to make. If you can fit in 30 seconds... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u39	Of course. Well, if you haven't read the report on the state of the forests in Poland, then why are you quoting the data about excessive logging... [[Mr. Senator, question, please.]] But that's the question: why? [[That's not a question, that's a part of the discussion.]] That's the question. [[I'll answer that, Mr. Marshal. May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u40	You're the one who can't ask a question? [[I asked you why you quote such data, and you don't have...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u41	Mr. Senator, thank you for your attention. Mr. Senator, you have much more experience in the Senate. This is my first term of office in the Senate. And you know very well that it is my duty to report on the work of the committee. I passed the report and pointed out the data we discussed at the committee meeting. Speaking of which, I don't know the age of the woods, I told you I don't know the age of the woods today, and I noticed that you gave the data from years ago, not the current ones. Hence, I believe, I have answered truthfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u42	Thank you. [[I would ask, however, that the questions asked concern what we discussed at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.]] Thank you. I'm calling a half-hour break by 12:30. It's the opening of the exhibition. And after the break, we'll go back to that point. [[Adjournment in the sitting from 12 minutes 01 to 12 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u43	I'm reopening the session. We return to the second agenda: second reading of the draft law on amending the Law on forests. Do you have any further questions for the rapporteur of the committee, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka? You're welcome, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u44	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Senator! I have a question about why you're pushing this project. I say yes because you are also acting on behalf of the project applicants. Well, you are pushing this project, despite many negative opinions, and it is precise, concrete, but the most important thing here is that it is contrary to the position of Poland, which was presented before the TSUE, so in a way you are lowering the level of argumentation that can be applied there. 'Cause everyone's always gonna be able to say, 'but you don't all think so.' That's the first line. And the other, because I didn't get a clear answer from you to one of the questions. Well, the provisions of the project are still in place, and perhaps the law, but I hope that they are not to act backwards about all the plans for the development of the forest. Is it possible that... [[Timer signal]] ...that one environmental organization can do this? Can she do that? Is it possible... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, it's time. There's a minute to ask a question.]] I'm just gonna finish the thought. Is it possible for one environmental organization to block forest management across the country? Because according to this he can do it, but of course he only has 30 days to do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u45	Thank you, Senator. Let me remind you that the time for questioning is one minute, and I will be strictly guarding it. You're welcome, Senator, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u46	Senator, I answered both of these questions in the first round of your questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u47	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to ask the senator of the applicant a question? There are no calls. Thank you very much, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Here you are, Secretary of State and Representative of the Government for Forestry and Hunting, Minister Edward Sark.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Thank you very much for the discussion that took place here, because it also sheds some light on how we are discussing forests, what state of knowledge we have. But it is also an opportunity to correct a few points in this discussion that is taking place in the Chamber. At the very beginning, I would like to say that the government will not present its position to this Senate project, we have an opinion and this opinion is negative in relation to this submission. Let me make a few points here. The first point, which is very important for this proposed regulation, is what you have already discussed here, namely the lack of an impact assessment of this regulation. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about a very important sphere, which concerns 1/3 of the area of our country, because today forests occupy 9 million 200 thousand hectares, or 1/3 of the area of the country. I would also like to say very clearly that these forests today are 80% managed by the State Forest Forests and 20% of the forests in Poland are privately owned. The State Forests today are properly responsible, you could say, for the forests in their entirety, because in the case of private land often by the elderly, who are responsible for the so-called. The simplified plans for the installation of the forest are entrusted with tasks as if they were the supervision of private forests. So it can be said that the State Forest Farm, 26 thousand foresters in Poland in these 429 forestry sites, because there are so many in Poland, is responsible for the state of Polish nature. The very important information is also that in Poland 80% all Natura 2000 areas lie on the forest land of the State Forests. This is very important information, because we in many places of this discussion about forests forget that, thanks to the work of foresters and their 100-year experience, the state of these Natura 2000 areas can be said to be very good and thus also these Natura 2000 areas can function properly, in accordance with existing EU legislation in this area. What's the state of the forest? Because in general in this discussion also such concern about the state of Polish forests sounded. Ladies and gentlemen, on a national scale, the plans for the installation of the forest through each forestry, and as I said, there are 429 of them in Poland, are drawn up once every 10 years. An environmental impact assessment is always drawn up for such a plan and these plans are carried out in the context of a public consultation, a broad public consultation. There's no way that the plan for the woods was built without such consultation. The question therefore arises: if, according to your proposal, such a plan for the installation of the forest is to be challenged by the administrative court, what would the administrative court decide, what would it decide? Would he assess this environmental impact assessment and examine its records or question its records, or for example. The court will only investigate the procedure? In my opinion, he's only going to investigate the procedure, nothing more the court is actually able to bring into this case. Of course, one can imagine that he will appoint no one knows how many experts. But who will cover the costs of these various expertises, and how long would it take to approve such a plan: one, two years, or longer? Because it is important to say that there is an entire appeal process in such an administrative procedure. So that would mean a good thing about the consequences... And it is a good question that you have also asked: is it possible that one organisation will challenge the plan of the forest device? Yes, with one click in the computer you can challenge all plans of the forest device, not only those to be adopted in the future, but also those adopted earlier, because this regulation was formulated by the applicants. This means that for a good cause the paralysis of the entire big industry in Poland, which is responsible for 2.5% GDP, gross domestic product. This means that at one point, 0.5 million people who are engaged in forestry will find themselves, so to speak, on the margins of social life. This means the collapse of 7 000 different types of economic operators who are doing business in this area today. Of course, I leave out plants such as big paper mills, of course I ignore industries such as those related to construction, etc. These are big areas that we can't even imagine. This would de facto mean freezing the overall functioning of the economy. We've been investigating this since the State Forests were formed, which is 1924. This is all documented, we know what the state of the forests is, and especially what their state is after World War II. The area, the area of forests has now increased, according to the strategic documents, to 30% and ultimately to 33%. Thus, in December of this year, the Director-General, having regard to the financial condition of the State Forest Farm, issued decisions on the basis of which we do not only use the so-called. the right of pre-emption in the case of notarial acts in the case of forest land, but at the same time the Forests have embarked on intensive purchasing of forest land in order to increase the areas of potent forestation. I will just say that from 2013 to 2021, 5 thousand 700 ha were additionally wooded in Poland In addition, the wooded Land that hasn't been wooded so far. The State Forests bought the same land with their own resources. However, at the same time 532 thousand ha were renovated. 532 thousand ha have been renovated, i.e. simply made additional care, plantings, etc. For the amount of PLN 2 billion 300 million. That's the huge money that's being absorbed right now. But this state of the forest is so important... Besides, in a moment you will receive an appropriate report, because this was also a question, a report which will present the situation for the period 2018-2019, and there will be details given. Today, I would like to say this: when it comes to wood resources per hectare, in Poland these are currently formed in state forests at the level of 280 m3, even 290 m3 and we give the average stock, i.e. 280 m3 per hectare, in a situation where in Europe it is only 168 m3. Our state of the forest in terms of the contents of the stands is really one of the biggest... We are at the forefront of this in Europe. As for the anxiety that appears in the O.R., the state of acquisition... This state of acquisition has been equally strictly observed by the State Forests for years. If today we assume that the increase per hectare per year is within 9 m3, then the Forests of these 9 m3 never they do not obtain more than within the range of 6 and 7 m3, i.e. always with the extraction of wood - Yeah, you could say that. - Mm-hmm. These 3 m3s are like a plus to what's growing. Of course, forests today face various dangers, starting with climate change. This is also a big problem, because after World War II on many lands, many habitats were generally planted, for example. pine, and this tree state is not adapted to such habitats, which caused that today in many places we need to rebuild the stands so that they are resistant to changing climatic conditions and, above all, to drought. Right? That's a big problem, because that's why, for example. The ability to absorb carbon dioxide is decreasing, which in turn the European Commission draws very much attention to. As long as we have this quantity of 26 million t CO2 equivalent today, This country they know The Commission wants 38 million to be absorbed in the future. And that's a very big challenge, because in this case it would mean... We would have to pay the penalty for failing to comply with that requirement. But this is a completely different subject. The document is currently being negotiated at European level. And here, of course, we have our arguments. Moreover, the decline in forest absorption is not just a problem of Poland This is a pan-European problem. I want to say very, very clearly that, as far as our resources are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we have nothing to worry about. The wood industry, on the other hand, is very critical of us. She criticizes us from this point of view that it is obtained just a little wood raw material. Especially now that we are after 24 February this year, after Russia's aggression against Ukraine, the question is universally asked: what are the possibilities of our forests with regard to biomass? What are we supposed to replace fossils with, for example, heat? There is no other alternative today. And in many European countries, this is very clear. As soon as biomass, and this biomass is not only forest but also agricultural. This is also another subject that requires a really broad analysis. If we're gonna get away from the fossils, what are we gonna do about it? What would replace these fossils? We, within the structure of the State Forests, tried to recognize this topic. Ladies and gentlemen, today's forest policy is also that, on 1 ha of the forest in Poland, despite this policy which is being conducted, there are about 10 m3 of wood. So the question is, should this wood really stay there, or could we just replace it with biomass? And it's not about burning wood, it's about what's often repeated. Because there is no such process in Poland. In Poland, the logs of the tree do not burn. Cranes or various types of post-production waste from wood processing are burned. And there is, of course, a question that keeps coming back, which is the issue of exports. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we are wondering how we could and whether this is possible in legal terms, rather the answer is: not for example. stop exports in the internal market of the European Union. This is impossible from the point of view of European law. Impossible. Well, unless we really want to give some weird passwords. But there's no way for today to stop this process. I would like to say another very important thing: State forests do not sell wood to outsiders, foreign entities. There's no such thing as a trial. Forests as a result of the auction and as a result of the offer are selling wood to our national entities. And even if later this entity decides and the market often causes this. The fact that in part this wood escapes us abroad is that we bring a similar amount of wood to Poland today. Our problem today will also be that some of this wood, e.g. from Belarus or Russia, he won't come to us, he won't be brought back. This also means very big problems in the wood industry. And that's what we're paying attention to. Of course, we can consider in some categories this element of fleeing wood here, especially wood logs, the most valuable ones. For non-European markets. There are possibilities here, but together with the Ministry of Development, we are looking at how these issues could be resolved, because the quantities, believe me, are not... Please do not compare the GUS data we have with those quantities that are actually exported because these are completely different values. The export problem as such outside the border is indeed and we are wondering how it could possibly be reduced. I will also refer to this initiative that you have submitted. We believe that this initiative is premature. Poland is As already said here, as the senator said In a dispute with the European Commission, whether the Aarhus Convention obliges us to allow environmental organisations to appeal to the court of the plan for the installation of the forest. We stand here in the position that the Convention does not impose such an obligation, because the right to court is only entitled to projects, and the plans of forest equipment are not an undertaking, they are merely a plan, they are simply a plan. At the moment, this dispute that is taking place before the Court of Justice has, as it were, certain stages. We have also tried to avert it at the legislative level. As you will remember, not further than in January, we examined the draft amendment to the Law on Forests and the Act on Nature Conservation; it was about art. 14b Forest Act. The European Commission put the matter in such a way that this article from the Forest Act should be included in the Nature Conservation Act. And we agreed to it. In fact, it is a so-called issue. good forest practices. There the charge against Poland was or is such that Poland did not sufficiently compensate for all these issues concerning good forest practices, i.e. that not all these practices are well described. Because the fact that they're used by foresters, we know, and that's not a problem for us. The problem is how to change it by regulation or law. This is where we met the expectations of the European Commission. We argue the same with regard to the plan of the plantation of forests, that there is a possibility in Poland to challenge plans of the plant. We have 3 such cases in Poland, but under civil law, when the organization even led to the fact that the acquisition of wood was stopped in a given editing. But these are completely different issues than the basis on which you want to challenge the plans of the forest device, i.e. in the context of an administrative procedure. What we're saying is that this initiative is actually going or is it going to make us... And we know the behavior of many environmental organizations who often understand this process... In fact, you could say that this process is understood by 99% of society, but by the rural one, while research shows that in many areas, when it comes to urban residents, this process or this economic function of forests is often misunderstood. Why is this happening? This is because we often look at the forest from the point of view of one generation, from the point of view of the environment in which we live. We'd just like to watch. old trees to which we are attached, and some cuddle with them, drawing on, so to speak, some health benefits. The problem is that the forest is also a young forest and this medium forest, and this mature forest, and the one that is already dying. This is the continuity of the forest. If we were to upset this process, it would turn out that at some point we would have a gap in which de facto there would be large phenomena of forest extinction. In fact, it's enough... If someone went to the Białowieża Forest during the fall or winter period, that's where he could see the process. Now that it's green in the spring, it's not so visible. But after all, in these 3 foresights, i.e. Browsk, Białowieża and another Now I've run away with a name. We're not allowed into the woods at all, because we don't know who's gonna fall on their heads. So, ladies and gentlemen, if we stop running this economy, we think it would also be an ecological disaster for our forests. Many of your senators understand that without some interference, reasonable interference, it is impossible to conduct forests properly or maintain their continuity. It's obvious to us. Now there is a very big challenge for us, how to convey this to society, how to educate society, so that in these processes, especially around big cities, all these processes are understood. Hence, forests change their policies, i.e. that. walk away from complete logs, i.e. such logging, where all woodworks are cut and then completely replanted. We move away from such action in the presence of big cities, rather for the sake of fluffing, care. And here's a note. Well, ladies and gentlemen, 80%. wood in Poland is obtained in this way It's a hobby, it's a different kind of cut, it's a care. Only 20% of the wood is completely ground, and it is limited to various valuable places, such as peat bogs, such as various kinds of wetlands, such as some naturally valuable objects that are de facto described today and which foresters are looking after. But we are still talking about active protection, not completely passive protection, where any activity is banned at all. Because once again, it is not necessarily effective when it comes to nature conservation. And, of course, we also point out that this regulation, which you proposed by the senators of the applicant, violates the principle of non-retroactivity. Well, the introduction of this record would mean that we would have a large number of cases coming out one time. Which would have affected the court to examine whether these documents had been issued correctly. We see a lot of threats and not fully described consequences that involve this regulation. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u49	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u50	Yes, Mr. Marshal. Thank you. Minister, I have a practical question. Well, I suppose there's a lot of planning going on. Well, I don't know, probably hundreds, or maybe thousands of these plans are being prepared as part of the entire stock of State Forests every year. Tell me if there's any statistics in the ministry that would determine how many plans are causing social emotions. It's about the percentage. Is he significant or not? Because I suppose the vast majority of these plans are evidently due to the quality of the forest and all the conditions that are needed for the rational breeding of the forest. And is there any statistics that determine such matters of dispute, right? Let's say when the forest plan says something different. I mean, social expectations don't really mix with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u51	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u52	Mr. Senator, when it comes to the plans of the forest equipment, so that we are very precise, there are not thousands of them, because the plans of the forest equipment, as I said, are drawn up once every 10 years for each fortress. So, as we have, let's say, Krasiczyn's Foresight, it is in 2021 that draws up a plan for the installation of the forest by 2031. Isn't it? And another approved plan for this editing will be only in 2031 or 2032. The plan is for 10 years. So you could say that there are 429 plans for the foreword. But that's what we're getting at. simplified plans for the installation of the forest for each county. This is where the county's responsible. So as many as we have counties, we also have simplified plans to make the woods the same for 10 years. So as for the number, that's how it's shaped. At the same time, not all plans for forest equipment are made within one year. They're bonding. Let's just say, in the last year and a half, I've spent plans for a forest device for fifty to one hundred accents, but certainly not more than a hundred. So that's pretty much the scale. Because they're not made at the same time for everyone. Otherwise, among others. WIDE would have great problems to develop environmental impacts. And when it comes to public participation and disputes, there are disputes with each plan, but mostly, 99%, Mr. Senator, they are being resolved at local level. And at this level, local government is involved, organizations are involved. If there's a good dialogue, it's 99%. These plans are agreed without any major... or de facto agreement. Environments like this and others come to an agreement. I think there's a small scale that comes to us later, resulting from that, for example. The Regional Environment Directorate has other indications on the impact of the proposals contained in the plan. When all the documents are sent to the Ministry, our Forestry and Hunting Department evaluates the whole procedure before it goes to the Minister's signature, which is to approve the plan of the forest's equipment for a given editing. That's the briefness of the procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u53	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski for one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will present 2 short questions that I have not received before from the applicant's representative. When can the judgment of the TSUE be pronounced? How much longer can it take? Are the rights e.g. local and local authorities, if this law were to enter into force, would it be smaller than environmental organisations? I would also ask you to comment on the statement in one of the opinions, namely that the draft law confers on environmental organisations powers exceeding the ownership rights of the State Treasury, which are not subject to any liability for damages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u55	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u56	As far as deadlines are concerned, As I say, when we talk about proceedings before the TSUE, we expect that in the summer of this year we may already have a position on this matter. But as for the terms that could be given here for sure, we're not able to give them. We expect it to be summer or the end of this year, then it should be the position of the TSUE. We have also asked for the Court to issue a position in this area, because even if we wanted to decide today how to regulate the access of these organisations to the opinion of plans, it would be very difficult to decide on the basis of Polish law at the moment. We're discussing this, we're considering different possibilities. In any case, the whole procedure is very complicated and has far-reaching consequences. As far as local governments' rights are concerned, I can say that this right that we give to organizations is nothing unauthorized, just like unauthorized. They would actually... I think it would be an expression of a complete lack of imagination on our part if we gave the organisations this kind of power, because it would mean, which is no secret, that our industry is a serious competition on the European and even world market. All you have to do is use any organization to completely block this industry. And let me remind you that we are, for example. the largest furniture manufacturer in Europe. And that's what you can do. Today we have a serious problem arising from EU documents, because these organisations are also trying very hard to gain influence at the level of the forest degradation regulation, which is what the French Presidency is considering today. where it completely changes e.g. definitions for sustainable forest management. This would mean that a country could be on the list of countries in distress. and automatically the European Commission, some experts or NGOs could block any manufacturer from producing, for example, those seats that you have here in the Senate. It would simply mean that each product would have to have a certificate, which would indicate that it was obtained in accordance with the provisions of that Regulation and, by the way, would have to be introduced so-called. the geography of this product, so we would have to give exactly the number of the forest plot on which the tree on this chair was obtained. And this would have to be done by the manufacturer, and that would mean very far-reaching administrative constraints that de facto paralyze the entire industry. Besides, all countries are now raising it, this is not just our position, because we are consulting, especially in a group of so-called similar thinking countries, these are the countries of Scandinavia, Germany, Poland, Austria. But for example. The Netherlands is very much behind. Only Holland doesn't have any woods. Right? These are stories of this kind, and I think you know it very well. Local government laws are very limited here. Right? It seems irrational to me that, in a situation where, in many places, we raise the rights of local communities to decide on local matters, suddenly the right to how this spatial policy, because I understand it, is to look like a community... In Polish law, it is the municipality that decides, for example, what the spatial planning plan looks like. I would still understand if there was such a proposal that the municipality is shaping this development plan, the plan of the forest installation is part of this development plan. That's what I'd understand. But in this case there's no such proposal, there's something completely different here.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u57	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Senator Stanisław Gogacz, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. With regard to the reasons for this amendment, it is still referred to as the grounds for the action brought by the European Commission to the Court of Justice of the European Union. But as far as the content of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union is concerned, that judgment may be very different, it may be against the content of the action which has been brought before the Court of Justice. Tell me, Minister, would you be tempted to evaluate how the amendment of the Forest Act we are discussing, this amendment, can affect judges who decide in the EU Treaty on a possible judgment that could end the complaint? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u59	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u60	Mr. Senator, we've been at it since the beginning. I am talking about the government side, and we are pointing out that this initiative is premature, and it may even turn out that it weakens Poland's position in this dispute very much, and we are paying attention to it. Really, ladies and gentlemen, there is no need for us to now prepare legislation that, for a good cause, can weaken our arguments very much, and that is how we perceive this legislation. She in many places does not allow us to use all the arguments in this discussion you are quoting. I also do not make all the arguments, because we are, so to speak, in the course of proceedings before the tribunal and I do not want to reveal all our arguments, because in this case it would mean that I am acting to the detriment of Polish forests. That's what I think. Forgive me if I do not answer some of the questions about this issue, but we are in the process of proceeding before the tribunal and it is not in our interest to discover all our arguments, because it is, once again, about powerful interests, also economic ones. We are talking, of course, about protection, about access to information, about possibilities to challenge, etc., but we are also talking about the very serious economic consequences of possible legislation or settlement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask me another question by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to talk to you about these... I was surprised to hear that information when you mentioned that almost everyone or basically every plan of the forest equipment is causing tension. What kind of tension are these? Is this about the availability of a road network, the availability of a forest, or the plan of clippings? Is there anything more you can say about this, or is this the kind of data in the department? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u63	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u64	I ask you, as far as the plan for the installation of the forest is concerned, this plan is laid out, we can imagine that it is something like the planning of the municipality, he is laid out and the people, the society that lives in a given region, in a given village or in a given town, a city, he sees that in this plan there is a separation, because that is what it is called: separation in a given year, e.g. in 2026, it is foreseen that it will obtain 1000 m3 of wood. And people ask why so much? Can you do less? How? Why don't you guys cut down on something? That's the kind of discussion I was talking about. It's not always a conflict, it's not, because it's not. Often these are questions, and this is the natural process of agreeing such plans. In most cases, I can say that the foresters are able to rationally explain why, explain this state of the tree state or some phenomena that occur there. Or they show that, for example. In this separation wood was recently harvested, let's say, 40 years ago or 50 years ago, and there came a time that this tree state should just be renovated, or else we'll grow old. The problem of Polish forests is also that we get very old. We've got about 15% right now. The old trees, which means that we also have the possibility of absorbing carbon dioxide automatically. Besides, there are beautiful studies, graphs that show how in the case of aging stand, its ability to catch... This can be seen in the example of a pine tree, if it reaches 100 years of its life... Its ability to increase mass and absorb the best are at the age, let's say, 50 and 60 years old, and then they just drop pretty rapidly. But the tree, when it dies, as some experts say, actually 50% its CO2 in the first 3 years of decomp puts it into the atmosphere. As long as this process of CO2 donation to the atmosphere continues, it is also subjected to some kind of analysis and testing, but generally at some point the tree drys, as we speak in the everyday language, which is dying, and it gives carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u65	Thank you very much, Minister. I see there are no further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulphur: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Józef Zając. Here you go, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! Because of my hobbies, which is hunting, I often have the opportunity to watch the forest. It is not my main concern, but anyone who passes by the forest is unable to turn around and not watch, because it is something beautiful, something that makes our world more friendly. Because I've been doing this for many years, I'd like to present three such pictures, cross-cutting, in the sense that there are different years when it happened... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to ask for silence because the senator is speaking. Please don't disturb me. You're welcome.]] Thank you very much. I remember the 1960s, the 1970s, when the woods And the berries were often used in the forest, and the mushrooms were wasted. It was hard to grow what we see today. Those woods went through war, you could see, there were huge clippings everywhere. I even have pictures and when you compare the same area of the forest in the picture one day and today, it's only then that you can see what it was. Forests were rebuilt. And in fact, the hat's off in front of those who did it then, the foresters, the school kids. That's because the woods were planted. As far as I can remember, the percentage of the country's forested area was about 18% back then. , and today we're somewhere on the border I don't know if I'm gonna make a mistake. It's about 30%, isn't it? So this is a fantastic result. But that's the result. these many years of work on restoring the forest area. Which was interesting, when you went into the woods, it was clear in the woods. There were no abandoned branches, no excavations. Even the litter was won because it was used on farms. On the one hand, it was very pleasant to walk in such a forest. Plenty of flowers in the spring On the other hand, the forest did not build the land at that time. In later years, when the tree stood improved, let's say, in the 1980s and 1990s, it was already evident that it was beginning to use the forest to obtain the tree. And that's when the woods began to be cut out more massively. This was not so mass due to the technique of obtaining the tree. was made with a saw. Before one trunk, one tree was beheaded, it took half a day, maybe more. But it was conducted correctly in my opinion. And finally this third picture, present. Maybe I'll sum it up first. Notice that forests have remained almost insensitive to the political views of their users. They all valued the forests, and I think we should continue this view of the forests too these days. But in today's picture of the forest that I have from the last few winter hunts I've participated in, there's a bit of a rumble. Well, I met with a section of the type that the Minister was talking about, namely, the local one. Not that we cut the whole area in Finnish, let's say 10 or 100 hectares, the ground is processed, we grow, we plant, only selected trees are cut out. And what happens then? Well, there's something going on that scared the hell out of me. I'm sure this thickest stump was taken. The trunks of diameter, say, 20 to 30 cm abandoned, based on the growing, young trees that have been crushed by the falling large tree. And a lot of branches left behind, which, according to American theories, are said to be cultivated in the woods. I have huge doubts as to whether this is really the case, whether this is not just a theory explaining some kind of host laziness. And that's what I'm seeing in the Guestland Forests, that's the Guesthouse, lying on the Vistula River, not far from the Vistula River. And I have to say, whoever I've been talking to in the woods, everyone said that everyone doesn't like it very much. Therefore, realizing that hosting forest resources is something that requires great knowledge, it requires great tact in relation to nature, I think that we should first of all start training young people in the field of the environment, in which they would not only talk about weed, flowers near the house, etc., but above all about something that covers 1/3 of the surface of our country, i.e. forests. I'd have many more comments, but these are so general. I'd like to finish at the show of what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u67	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor remotely Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If you will allow me, I would first like to refer to the words made by the Minister and correct many of them. Indeed, it is today that Poland has a proceeding before the TSUE on violation of the Convention and violations of civil law, i.e. the right to court. The Minister may say that forest planning is not an implementing instrument, but on the basis of these plans implementing decisions are taken, i.a. decisions concerning the extraction, i.e. logging. So, Minister, this is a weak line of defense. This line of defense cannot be used before any court. It's too bad you're even going through with this. That's one thing. Secondly, I do not know whether, knowingly or unconsciously, you are sorry, but I assume that you have misled the High House many times. First of all, the law cannot act backwards. Where the decisions regarding the plans of the forest device have become valid, they are already valid there. After the adoption of this law, it will not be entitled to challenge them before an administrative court because they are valid. We know the general rule that the law doesn't work backwards. In addition, administrative decisions appear to be two-way. Even if a second instance decision is brought before a general court, it does not stop the process of its implementation. She's being executed. And if the plan for the installation of the forest was issued at the level of the administrative decision, and some party would challenge it to the general court, then it would not be possible for the administrative courts to stop the process. Worse, compensation may arise from the fact that the forest plan itself has been prepared in a faulty way. You also say that the plans to organize the forest are being taught and that the parties can pay attention. Yeah, they can. But these comments need not be taken into account. And if they're not considered, then what? Nothing. The parties shall not be entitled to appeal before the General Court. I would remind you that in the case of land-use plans, which are much more complex, such a right of appeal to the general court exists and there are no risks there. Local governments are not afraid that they will have to defend common land-use decisions before courts. And this is a much more complicated process, because a process that often projectes forever. Once a decision has been made, even to build a road, it is a decision forever. Finally, Minister, there were 25,000 people working in the State Forests, and now there are 27,000. You've increased your employment. These are the officials. They're not people who deal with logging, planting. The author of this is a forest service facility. You're ordering it outside. And there's a few dozen, dozens a year, as you've noticed. There is an institution called the Directorate-General for the Environment, which employs about a thousand workers on a national scale and which spends more than 100,000 administrative decisions a year. They can do this, they can defend these decisions before common courts, because there the right to common court is written and written from the very beginning. The level of complaint is 1.5%. What does that mean? The fact that if the decision is properly prepared, no organisation is complaining to it. I don't understand this creating an atmosphere of fear, creating lies that fall. I assume, unwittingly, Minister, I assume that you simply do not know and unwittingly mislead the High House by saying that here is some armageddon that will happen. That's not true. The parties will have the right to challenge, the courts will decide, and wherever the decision has been adopted in breach of the rules, those courts will repeal the decisions, transfer them to re-preparation, review. Nothing out of the ordinary is gonna happen. And wherever it is right, the parties who challenged it will bear the costs of the action, for there is a substitute, the cost of the substitute, etc., etc. We know all this from administrative proceedings; those who worked in the local government, i.e. they made decisions, they know how it works. So there's no need for scaring. I don't understand why this kind of argument, about disaster and any kind of threat, appears at all. I understand why you're so stubborn about this weapon, because you've actually increased in recent years... One of the senators asked. I'm sorry to hear that Senator Jazłowiecka doesn't know the data. Well, Mr. Senator, in 2010 more than 40 million were cut in Poland, i.e. some 30 million m3 of wood were cut in 2020, and the plan for this year is similar. Increased acquisition by 25%, by 10 million m3 of wood. These are giant numbers. Besides, to make the matter clear... the minister even said it, and that's something in terms of scandal. Because there is no waste from forest biomass Everything that is of biomass is suitable for processing. You can grind it, add glue and make a plate that will produce furniture at the end. This can be done with branches and with any other raw material that is of forest origin. You know that very well. But you'd rather burn woods, because that's why the State Forests get a much higher price for raw materials. And I'd prefer the woods to be used primarily to protect the air, I'd prefer the woods to serve society. Because they're state owned, and they're not privately owned by some management group today. Only this group feels like masters in this situation, because those foresters who have been working there for decades are really doing a hard and extremely good, extremely friendly job for forests. I often talk to these foresters and I hear: we do not agree to such reprehensible, robbing timber and logging that are being conducted today, we do not agree to destroy the Szczecin Forest, as it happened recently, or the Carpathian Forests, as it is now. Even under my family's Koszalin, there are simply complete aggregates. People look at it and they're scared. Literally terrified. And it goes entirely to the foresters' account, although they are guilty of God's spirit, because it is the decision-makers who make the wrong decisions. In this situation, saving the prestige of Poland Because there is no, so to speak, defence against the right of access to the court; this is one of the arguments which stems from the Aarhus Convention and stems from European law But also giving Poles the chance to defend themselves against those who make decisions that are harmful to the state forests... And that means all the citizens, all the Poles, not just from this group, which today is trying to own the forest estate, buy foresters for pennies, or pay for giant groceries. In this situation, I ask the High House to support this project in its entirety because it serves national interests, national interests, serves Poles and serves proper forest management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u69	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor, Senator Magdalena Lover. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm going to start by saying that I want to express my really great appreciation and respect for the work of foresters, grove, foresters and fortifications, for all workers who don't manage as much as they do not make the smartest arrangements we're talking about today. The law did not arise from excessive trust in the managers. She came up with a lack of confidence in those decisions that are generally very controversial. We don't agree on this scale of cutting down forests. If the Minister assures us it's so great, it's all the more surprising to resist social control. The state forests are not government property or property of anybody but citizens. Therefore, if citizens have the right to their decisions, to challenge, to critical opinions on decisions as complex as spatial planning plans for which municipalities are responsible, then I do not see any reasons why decisions concerning forest equipment would not be subject to social control. Why are people managing a large, powerful entity like the State Forests afraid of small NGOs and their citizens? If it's as good as you say it is, then there's no reason to be afraid of these smaller organisations and individual citizens. On the contrary, I would say that transparency will give you splendor. Well, if it's okay, it'll be okay. If our assessment is wrong, she's gonna change. Since we have the right to challenge various cases before the court, since we have the right in the case of complex spatial planning, we also have the right to co-decide on our ownership of forests. It seems to me that the reasons set out in one of the opinions I read, the justification that the court has no jurisdiction. Is every judge an economist? Yet, he judges disputes between the taxpayer and the tax office, between the citizen and the authorities. Is every judge a doctor? Yet he evaluates medical errors, and we submit to those judgments. I have the impression that in this bill like in a lens you can see the attitude of the rulers towards the citizens: state means government. No, it's not. There is a balance between a court that settles matters and a citizen, between a citizen and a government. We really have a right to court, it's guaranteed in the Constitution. Then what are you afraid of? What are you afraid of? If the court judges the case, we're gonna have to surrender. If it's as good as you say it is, there's no reason for this great, powerful state body, the State Forests, to tremble in front of a single citizen or non-governmental organization. It will be much easier for us to avoid disputes with the European Union, which is asking for civil rights, for nothing else. I will tell you more: there is a war going on in Ukraine, and forests are a natural barrier against many types of troops. Think of forests not only as a beautiful area of nature and fresh air, as our common property, our common treasure. Let us also think of them as natural protection and something that will serve the security of the state. In a word, there is no reason why we should not accept the solutions contained in this bill. There are a lot of reasons why we should adopt this bill without amendments. And this is my reaction to this bill I am announcing in this speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u71	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan. Also remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u72	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Can you hear me? [[Yes, Mr. Senator, you can be heard, but you can't see what we regret, of course.]] Thank you very much. I too, like my previous speaker, Senator Kochan, and the previous speaker, Mr Gawłowski, will be behind this bill. I believe that there are no problems for everyone to express their opinion when it is necessary. And I'm going to refer to what this forest economy looks like. Well, Minister, I would like to say that I come from Zielona Góra, from Lubuskie Voivodeship, where almost 70% The surface is the woods. I'm kind of living in this world. I don't go into the woods hunting like Senator Hare, because I don't think it's a hobby unless it's a gun-free hunt, because then I believe that a level playing field would be a level playing field with the animal. But I'm going back to that... Well, I live by the forest, and I often walk in it, for 50 years, you can say, somehow I am connected to this forest, but I haven't really seen such devastation as I have seen in recent times. In places where woods are cut out, it's been deserted for a long time. Perhaps it must be, but only after a while and after our interventions do employees appear and these places are wooded. There's really a lot of them in cut-out woods, and you can see that with the naked eye. You don't have to be a specialist to notice that over the years these forests have been lost. Maybe in statistics. I don't know. It looks good, maybe these plantings are in other areas of our country, but when I look at Lubuskie, I can see that these forests really are dying, Minister. There is not one point that I would like to draw attention to in the discussion. Well, the State Forests, as a monopolist, when they set up an area for the forest, may not do so. But when in this area, for example. administers it or when the local government sells it, then it is called. exclusion from forest cultivation, which has never been done there, and for 10 years such an entrepreneur or self-government must pay you for something that has never been there. You didn't care about the area, you didn't forest him, you didn't cut anything, there was no economy. I've been bugging about this for a while now, because I think it's open discrimination, and it's just a sign that you're a monopolist and you can introduce things like that. It's just unhealthy. This is wrong when it comes to any practice. Well, how can you pay for something that didn't happen at all? I understand that the entrepreneur is cutting out the woods and there are benefits to it. But today you have to pay dearly for cutting out a tree. And I suspect if an entrepreneur wanted to cut out the woods, he couldn't afford it. 1 ha or 2 ha of forest is a powerful money. I'm not talking about the problem sometimes with one tree, although you've solved this problem very nicely, introducing a law of Szyszka, thanks to which people, companies or companies cut out beautiful stands. I'm not talking about local governments anymore. They cut a bunch of trees in the trunk 'cause somebody probably had some interest in it. But I would point out to work on not being a monopolist in the sense that you race people for something that might in theory be and is not. I find it very wrong and I would like the Minister to draw attention to this in the future and not toss money to the Forests from something that they have neither produced nor put in, just because they are a monopoly and have a bill behind them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u73	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogusława Orzechowska. [[Voice from the room: Remotely.]] Yeah, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is only one thing that reminds me of this discussion and the attempt to introduce this law: a diversion. We remember in our previous term of office when we introduced a law to limit or even prevent the distribution of forests and to introduce an economy to ensure that these forests are well-maintained. We remember all the activities of eco-terrorists who actually led to the fact that now Białowieża Forest in part is already destroyed, because suddenly someone who is unable to distinguish between a small worm, which is a barker, from another worm that exists somewhere in the ground or from another animal, e.g. From the mole... These eco-terrorists caused, unfortunately, part of the stand in the Białowieża Forest to be destroyed. I live in a voivodship where forests are a huge area. In addition to forests, there is an economy that is based on the production of furniture. I think, as the Minister said, that this bill leads to some eco-terrorist who suddenly comes up with something who can block the operation of the entire economy, and leads to everyone but Poles being able to develop. I understand that you don't like PiS, but why you hate Poland, I'm not able to understand. Especially since we have foresters who, I think, are really the best in Europe. I've been seeing them many times, and I think all the things I've been listening to a while ago, that's one big load of bullshit. I will vote against this bill. I think it's possible that you're afraid now, before the next court ruling, that it's not going to be your way, so there's an attempt to introduce a law that will make it impossible for the foresters to have a good, real job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u75	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Invited guests! First of all, there is one point that I think should be corrected here. Namely remotely, but ex cathedra, one of the speakers taught the Minister about the law and stated that the lodging of the complaint did not stop the execution of the act. It is a matter of proceedings before the provincial administrative courts. That's the truth, Art. 61 §1. But there is also §3: After the case has been handed over to the court, the court may, at the applicant's request, take the initiative on the part of the person who is complaining of the decision to suspend the execution in whole or in part of the act or act. What does that mean? That, in the event of the wrong will of the complainant, the complainant who brings the complaint to the NSA, it is theoretically possible to stop. We've also heard from this law specialist, and maybe I'll say that everyone knows that the law can't work backwards. Yeah, everybody knows that. So where does the art come from? Two? Where the approval is concerned with the approval of forest management plans, there is only one category here before the date of entry into force of this Law, one condition: this must be brought before the date of entry into force of the Law and the administrative court shall be brought before the date of entry into force of this Act within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this Act. Only 30 days and 30 days. Theoretically good, efficient organization, secretary, copy, paste and you can submit these complaints to all forest management plans without any time limit. Not to bring it in, just for the moment of adoption of this plan or approval of this plan. And maybe that's what this is about. I don't want to talk about how the woods are taken care of by our foresters. I think it's good, and if there are exceptions, you can always report it to the appropriate supervisory authority. I think it's okay. And so should our citizens have free access to forests and should also rest in these forests. They, of course, also have an economic function. Yeah, but what's this bill or this project yet, not the bill, has to do with it, would I call it, obviously, a quest? Nothing at all. It's in the opposite direction. This is about kicking out, blowing up forest management opportunities on the basis of a plan. That's it. It is not known why an organization that wrote a single sentence somewhere in its statute 12 months ago can block the implementation of forest management throughout the country. What are the economic consequences? Minister as if he had put it exactly: 2.5% GDP, 500 000 dependants, in some way related to forest management, e.g. in related industries, etc. Is that what you're proposing? I'm asking because such an organization doesn't really correspond. He wants to judge himself? There you go, there's civil law. You have to put something on the entrance to start the trial. And here, this circular path, on the side, can block practically everything. Is this supposed to come out of the Senate? Well, no, the applicant is a special committee, the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. There are committees responsible, I would call it, professional, senate, responsible, I would call it, economic departments, etc. Then why didn't it come out of the professional committee? I have already made it clear here that the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs has one function, namely, when the project comes... sorry, not the draft, the law of the Sejm, and the expert committee says that this law needs to be improved here and here... So what's the climate committee doing? It requests rejection, then there is a joint meeting, and since there are only representatives of the majority in the climate committee, which is mainly the Civic Platform, then there is a motion for rejection. There is no substantive discussion, there are no proposals considered in a way, I would call it logical, which could possibly heal the bill and turn it back to the Sejm, but there is a motion for rejection. We have a tool to fix a watch with a hammer: the climate committee. But, obviously, I was wrong because it's not the only thing the climate committee can do. The Climate Commission... This is the conclusion: on the basis of Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate The Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs requests that proceedings be taken... And here's the project. Well, the Climate Commission has been given another task: bringing projects that I think are lobbyist, and I say it with all my responsibility to finish the Polish economy, or at least not to prevent it. They worsen the Polish position before the TSUE, the position of our website. Early, little of that... the state that's watching us doesn't see it. First OSR, impact assessment of the regulation 1 card, date, exactly 21 January. The next OSR, the impact assessment of the regulation of 2 March, 5 pages, mainly negative opinions of people who know about it. And another OSR, March 3, 6.5 pages. Please, how it's changed. And the applicant's country is immune to these arguments. So why are you going this way? I could really understand that I probably talked about it at the committee meeting if we gave more authority in the process of approving plans for forest equipment for local government units, mainly for municipalities. I know these municipalities: small town, 5 villages around, 60% the surface is the forest. There it must be agreed with the local government, because they are really co-economy: foresters and local government. And it's supposed to be agreed, because both sides are about the same thing, about the well-being of the inhabitants of this area. How will the welfare of the inhabitants of this land be cared for by someone who does not respond materially, who does not respond on a business basis, as does the foresters, someone who is not chosen? And where are these environmental organizations chosen and by whom? Whose interests are they pursuing? My previous speaker said eco-terrorism. I ask: how can an environmental organization from Szczecin participate in proceedings in the Opolskie voivodship? What business does she have with this local community? Ladies and gentlemen, a little emotional, but this needs to be made clear. And, Mr Marshal, I would ask that the proper report to the rule committee from this speech be made. The question is exactly what was the process of investigating the project or forming the print project No. 619 in the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. Who's been coming over here? What exactly did he give you? Who formulated this project? That can be determined. It doesn't come out of nowhere. And then we'll explain exactly what happened at the beginning. [[Mr. Senator...]] What are the objectives of this project? Yes, I'm listening, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u77	Mr. Senator, you're the only one who appealed to the marshal and, I understand, the Senate Bureau, and I think... [[Yeah, 'cause you're the president here.]] I understand, yes, yes. But I think If you're having such doubts, I'm giving you such a warm answer. That's... [[I will appear at the sitting of the Rules of Procedure Committee, I promise that to the marshal.]] I think you should take advantage of the way the regulations give you. I think it's a rule committee first. [[Good. It's a date, Mr. Marshal. I'm talking about the Rules of Procedure Committee.]] I mean, I'm not encouraging it, but I'm saying that I think it's...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u78	Good. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, I'd like to fit in in time. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone says that the project is: (a) premature, (b) unnecessary, (c) establishes a caste, another caste of organisations, which in an irresponsible way can cause very serious damage. But we continue to do so, without any arguments, because the substantive arguments given here by Senator Piech met with this answer: but I see that it is different. Where are the sources of this vision except belief? I would like anyone who gives a number here to use the source, to give exactly what he says is so, not different. Because it seems to me that way, it's not in the Senate. I didn't hear any information about the sources, I only heard it in the speech of the Minister and Senator Piecha. If I still can't hear... You can still sign up for the discussion, please, you have other data, so present them. For now, I think everything you've said is purely literal. For these reasons, I will certainly vote against this project. And I believe as I promised you to the marshal. That's what we're gonna have to start checking on the rule board. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u79	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that Senators Janusz Gromek and Alexander Szwed have submitted their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. The Government representative may only comment on the proposals submitted but no proposals have been submitted. Therefore, I am sorry, Minister, that is not an option. During the debate, I asked if you would like to speak in ad vocem mode. Now I just don't have the option because there's no conclusion. Therefore, we proceed with the examination of the third order... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It will be held together with other votes, of course. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 660 and the report of the Commission In print No 660 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, I present a report on the work of our committee on amending the Law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and some other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances met yesterday at its meeting, heard the Minister of Finance's information about the bill, heard the opinion of the Legislative Bureau and held a discussion. The result of our work is the preparation of the report, which is included in print No 660 A. In this report, we propose that the High House adopt 20 amendments. Most of these amendments It is legislative in nature, more precise, but these are very important amendments. The content of these amendments was agreed between our Senate Chancellery, the Legislative Office and the Minister of Finance, so that we were able to proceed quickly and efficiently with this law and devote more time to substantive discussion than such legislative decisions. One amendment is indeed substantive and therefore I exclude it into a separate pool. I would even like to inform the senators that the Committee on Budget and Public Finance is bringing a marshal to you so that all these legislative amendments can simply be voted in one vote. And here there was no doubt from any of the senators. Of course, the Legislative Bureau has prepared more amendments. Some of the talks and arrangements with the Ministry of Finance also withdrew, but at the same time adopted the principle that certain things that are more important could later be negotiated with subsequent amendments and other laws, which also form part of this block, this law amending the law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and some other laws. This law is a large document, extensive, very specialised, very important, because it regulates the whole system of the institution of the pledge letter. Moreover, it also introduces the definition of a pledge letter to this document. It also regulates a number of matters relating to the functioning of mortgage banks. So there are many solutions here, which are extremely important. The law that I am discussing here mainly implements the European provisions of the relevant directives and amends a number of laws that have so far regulated the area of matters that I mentioned earlier. Thus, the Act implements the provisions of Directive 2019/2162 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on the issuance of covered bonds and the public supervision of covered bonds and amending Directive No 65 of 2009 and Directive No 59 of 2014 together with Regulation No 2160 of the European Parliament and of the Council of November 2019 amending Regulation No 575 of the European Union of 2013 as regards exposures in the form of covered bonds, part of the regulatory package on covered bonds. This package also takes into account the views and recommendations of the European Banking Authority, which has carried out a comprehensive analysis of regulatory developments in the context of the framework for covered bonds in individual Member States, recommending their harmonisation at European Union level, in line with the best principles. From the reporting obligation, I will also mention which laws this law amends or some of the provisions it repeals. Thus, the Act amends a number of other legal acts, including: the Act of 6 July 1982 on perpetual books and mortgage; the Act of 26 July 1991 on income tax on natural persons; the Act of 15 February 1992 on corporation tax; the Law of 29 August 1997; the Law of 7 December 2000 on the functioning of cooperative banks, their association and their banks; the Law of 28 February 2003 on insolvency; the Law of 14 March 2003 on Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego; the Law of 27 May 2004 on investment funds and the management of alternative investment funds; the Act of 29 July 2005 on trading in financial instruments; the Act of 29 July 2005 on public offering and conditions for the introduction of financial instruments to organised trading and on public companies; the Act of 21 July 2006 on the supervision of the financial market; the Act of 7 September 2007 on the Functioning of the Republic of Poland; the Act of 29 July 2005 on the Functioning of the Republic of Poland; the Act of 15 January 2016 and the Act of 15 January 2016 on the Act of the Act on the Financial Acts of the Republic of 15 January 2016; the Republic of the Republic of 15 January 2016; the Republic of the Republic of 15 January 2016 and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Poland; the Republic of the Republic of So, as you can see, this range of issues that this new law regulates, as I said, is very large, well-worked at the Ministry of Finance. I'm not discussing the contents of this bill here. It seems to me that if there are any questions from the senators, the minister will surely provide some more detailed information. The kind of thing that triggered the questions at the committee meeting. The problem was also reported to our committee by the owners of minority companies of the Treasury, i.e. those in which the Treasury is an important owner of the issue of forced minority shareholder shares. This case at the stage of work in the Sejm, but also in correspondence to our committee, caused a lot of doubt. This applies to a situation where minority shareholders are called upon to sell shares. The bill says that... it seems that the rules of this sale are quite well secured, after analysis it seems to us in the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. But here I would also like to ask the Minister to clarify this question in some way clearly and clearly. The majority of the shareholders of the State Treasury companies have doubts about this matter, which most often became them, having employee shares, i.e. receiving several hundred shares of large companies of the State Treasury. Of course, they have a marginal share in the ownership structure of the State Treasury companies, and in connection with the Act they may be redeemed. So there's a concern from these shareholders that their interests... that the price at which these shares would be forced to be bought out could be dishonest, understated, etc. They offered you stockholders, their representatives... They even created a special foundation, mainly for those shareholders who came to us, related to Energa. But these problems also occur in other places. It is simply this price that can be clearly underestimated as a result of the various types of manipulations that may be carried out on the market, that forced redemption will be carried out when the price of these shares, these companies, falls, is low. So it can happen that at a time when there is a low share price, there is an attempt to buy these marginal shares from these shareholders. Here there is a security, which refers to a fair remuneration, that you can also prosecute your rights if it turns out that the price offered by this main shareholder is too low or even unfair according to the owners of the shares. This is the court or the obligation to buy out at the price that the best shareholder will receive. This obligation, this law later applies to all those shareholders who would or would have to sell their shares. It was proposed to introduce a limit here... Now, if it were sold on the market on this stock market, at least 1% action... They'd want it to be more, they even offered it to be 10%. shares, which seems difficult to accept, probably because of the directive. But this case, I think, requires such clarification. We've also removed the records. It was also the subject of a discussion of such a special... It's an art. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 act. This case was discussed, but soon, I'm talking to her about order. This was a solution which favored cooperative savings and credit banks, which extended their time to raise appropriate capital until 2032. SKOK has the right, which is issued in the form of individual decisions of the Banking Guarantee Fund, if I am not mistaken. Here, perhaps, the Minister will correct it, if necessary, such a desire. But it's possible that it's not all SKOK that this amount... that it's not the size of 10 years. We thought that this provision should not have been sufficient, and therefore the said provision has been deleted. We propose that this record be deleted. And that would probably be all the comments I would like to make at this stage. We don't have as much time as the previous report on the woods. You know, it's always easier to talk about simple things than difficult ones. But we're at your disposal right now. And I can provide even more detailed information about this extremely important law, because it regulates a very important area of financial matters, the stock market, in general everything that concerns the normal economic functioning in the modern world, in Poland in particular. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u81	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The draft law was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Is the representative of the government, Minister Piotr Patkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, willing to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators Godyla and the Swede have made their speeches in the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Klein. The discussion is closed. Does the representative of the government want to respond to the legislative proposal put forward? No. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the National Heritage Act related to the names of public spaces and monuments. The text of the Act is contained in print No 644, and the report of the Commission In print No 644 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Culture and Media and to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Act on the Protection of National Heritage in connection with the names of public spaces and monuments adopted by the Sejm on 24 February. I would like to say that I will have a... pleasure is probably a bad word, because I would like to present a negative opinion of the committee and a motion for the High Senate to reject this law. I will try to quickly justify it in my speech, or at least present what we talked about at the committee's meeting and what is in the reports submitted to you and the opinions provided by the Legislative Bureau and the expert opinion that has come to us lately, but it is already in your mailboxes. I'll explain why we ordered a separate opinion. So that, as I say, we are asking the Senate, after considering the bill passed by the Sejm, to reject this law. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know more or less what this project is about. That's it. notabene already has a second project on similar cases. The first law, which was implemented in 2016, aroused huge discussions and outrage in the local government environment concerning in general any attempts to interfere with the local government law and all the powers of the local government, which have so far been inviolable for many years. This led to a discussion in 2016 I remember it very well. We discussed it for a long time in the Senate. Senator Klein was surprised that there was no discussion about an important bill. I see that it is probably not going to be a huge discussion now, and it is a pity, because it is worth to bend over and reflect on this proposal from the committee of culture and the local government committee to reject the law. Ladies and gentlemen, this law limits the right of local communities to decide on the change of street names, squares, facilities and municipal organisational units, as well as the removal of monuments. The applicants justified this solution by the desire to include the memory of those particularly deserved with increased protection by limiting the admissibility of changes in the names of public spaces that commemorate the merits of those persons. I have already mentioned that in 2016 there was such a law on banning the promotion of communism or another totalitarian system. The difference between these laws is that that law ordered that the names and monuments should be removed from the public space by the legislator, and this law prohibits the change of names and the removal of monuments where these names or monuments are desirable in the opinion of the legislator, i.e. as if they were working the other way. Ladies and gentlemen, if the council of the local government unit changes the name of the street, object or municipal unit or removes the monument, the voivode will have the right to restore the name or monument and charge the costs of restoring the local government unit. I draw attention to the fact that such decisions concerning the change of street names usually take place in municipal councils... I mean, they always take place on the basis of a resolution of the municipal council, but they are usually preceded by various types of public consultations, discussions in the press, etc., etc. The reasons for changes or departure from the previous name are different. Every time local governments make decisions that are inconspicuous. They wonder, listen to the social voice, listen to the conclusions, have very long discussions. And this voivodship bill will be able to arbitraryly change the decision of the city council, change the decision of the entire community and say that it does not like the decision. He'll have the right to do that. This entire catalogue of cases where this is possible is so wide that de facto the voivode will be able to do so in any situation. This is, ladies and gentlemen, very disturbing, because, as I stress, it will be an arbitrary decision of one official. In the previous law, we had some records about the IPN opinion, etc. There isn't even an opinion here, just a voivode can decide yes and no different, because he wants to, citing the right article. Of course, in the legal opinion of Mr Marek Jarentowski, our legislator, you will find information that we have already talked about this in the 2016 Act. It is contrary to the spirit of the Constitution, which mentions the principle of subsidiarity, decentralisation, the state system, public tasks to meet the needs of the local government and that all these tasks are carried out by the local government unit as their own tasks. It's always been like this. I repeat, it's always been that way. The amazing idea of centralising street names is simply contrary to the spirit of the constitution, with the assumption that certain tasks are carried out by the government and other tasks carried out by the government. The explanatory memorandum to the project does not explain why local communities are left the right to name and to place monuments, and they are denied the right to change this decision, which is obvious in law and is included in various other laws. There is also a lack of information that such situations should take place at all and that they should be burdensome for members of local communities. There's no such information. We do not really know why such a law is being introduced. During the committee meeting, someone gave an example. He said that all this was due to the fact that one of the roundabouts in Warsaw was to have a changed name, from the roundabout Dmowski to the roundabout of Women's Rights, and that it was all about this one situation. Perhaps it is, and perhaps there are wider reasons. But I don't know what the reasons are, we don't know them. A representative of the initiators did not come to the committee meeting. This is a parliamentary project. He did not appear at the committee meeting, he was unable to answer any questions, he did not want to say why this idea, why this law is suddenly being processed, as if we did not have any more serious problems at the moment than such matters, such as can wait for each other calmly. That's not all that's negative about this bill. Nor did a representative of the Ministry of Culture appear, although the law, as you will soon find out, also concerns amendments to the Radio and Television Act. They probably didn't notice. So that at all... Now look back. There is no representative of the Sejm and there is no representative of the government. We are left to ourselves, unable to ask anyone a question about the bill. That is why I am allergic to you not to politically approach it, because it is a law that today may serve the present power for something, but may in a moment use another power for the opposite. It just doesn't make sense. And I'm also paying attention to what is a flaw, which the Legislative Office has also pointed out, i.e. that this law is to act retroactively from 1 January 2022. Well, that's already a scandal. And what I'm talking about is that there are two cases that are here as a drop-off, and it's a drop-off that wasn't even on the project, but suddenly there's an amendment somewhere, and no one's gonna justify it, and she's in, and she's outvoted. This one is about amending the Radio and Television Act. We ordered an additional opinion on this matter, because there was no one to answer us, why this amendment, there was no such person at the meeting of our joint committees. And these changes that are planned here relate to programmes and financing programmes that are being made abroad. And one more thing. Art was also introduced. 9, which amends the Act on Public Benefit and Volunteering. And what's your mom doing on that shift? We have here a change allowing the President of the Council of Ministers to order non-governmental organisations and certain other entities to carry out public tasks in a wider way than before, with the exception of competitions. Such a competition may have been omitted so far, but only in cases where it was necessary for the protection of human life or health or for an important social interest or an important public interest. But even this has been crossed out, which means that now it will mean allocating these funds from the budget at its own discretion and will happen. This is really outrageous. Let me remind you once again that the laws usually apply not only to the current... This applies not only to what the current authority does, but also to what the next authority can do with these laws. So that's... please, I'm asking you to think about it. There are other shortcomings in this bill that I no longer want to discuss. I would just like to point out once again this amendment concerning the Radio and Television Act, which contains a completely new wording, and that the cost of creating the programmes and programmes referred to in paragraph 1. One, two, shall be covered by the State budget. So right now, we're dealing with an input that's gonna cause extra TV funding, really, without any justification. According to Jan Dworak, which we specifically ordered because we did not know what these changes were for, and why this change is not necessary at all and should be rejected. As regards the existing legislation that currently exists in the legislation, there is no need to make such changes in it, as it allows these foreign programmes to be created without such changes. I'm already overlooking the fact that there's no change in a law as important as the Radio and Television Act without any consultation, without the government's opinion. And we don't have the government's opinion here, there's no ministry's opinion, we don't know what it is. Looks like it's just a phone call I can only guess from the TVP headquarters to one of the MPs and he's preparing this change to order. That's what it looks like, sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, we still have... I'll just remind you, while we're on these changes, that the TVP budget right now... This change will allow for additional funding and will also allow additional actors to be recruited to create TVP programmes. We don't know what's behind this, we can only guess. In addition, this financial issue recalls that TVP's budget is at record high thanks to the compensation of the budget for lost subscription revenues, at the moment it amounts to PLN 3 billion, ladies and gentlemen, more or less. It's never been this good, it's a record-breaking amount in public media history. Therefore, it is difficult to find reasons why information tasks related to the extraordinary situation outside the eastern border of Poland would need to be looked for additional money in the budget reserve for programs from abroad, because we can guess that this is the case, although it is not written about it anywhere. That's completely unwarranted. And no one cared enough to bother the two committees to answer any questions. Hence our decision to simply reject this law. She can't be improved. Changes in the Act on Radio and Television are unnecessary, changes increasing the powers of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister to grant funds without queries, without competitions, etc. are unnecessary and unwarranted, and the entire law restricts the rights of the self-government, inalienable, seemed to be recorded in the division of the authorities in the Constitution. It turns out that these rights are violated by the ordinary parliamentary law, not approved by the government, not socially consulted either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u83	Thank you very much, Senator. Wait a minute. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Halin Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Madam President, it has already been apparent from the President's statement that no one of the initiators of this law appeared at the committee meeting, and I understand that there was no opinion. And was there a speech on the committee... Because perhaps the government does not really know whether such a bill has been filed, even though the Members voted. Was it discussed in any way at the meeting of the government? Was this subject discussed at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u85	No. It is not usually customary for the Council of Ministers to comment on parliamentary projects, but we usually ask that at committee meetings. This time, no one showed up at all, no government representative. And I have to say that... well, a government representative is one thing, but, as I say, there was no one at the committee meeting on behalf of the initiators or the author of these weird outcasts and these weird amendments, which he should have done.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u86	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask this question to the initiator of this law, and in particular to the initiator of these outcasts, but perhaps the senator will also be able to answer. At what stage of the legislative process did these contributions appear regarding the revision of the Radio and Television Act and the amendment of the Public Use Act?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u88	I'm not gonna say exactly which stage, but I do know that already at the process stage, after sending the project to the committee, which means somewhere over there... I suspect that someone may have just tabled such an amendment at one of the readings or at the committee meeting. But I also know that she didn't raise any additional questions at all; she wasn't at all on the committee, so that we're dealing with a very disturbing situation. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, we have talked here many times about how the law is now being made in Poland, but this cannot be done. It can't be that there's no government opinion, no public consultation, there's nothing, there's just some weird bill being made, it's voted uncritically, it's being introduced to the Senate and it's making us make a decision. Even if it was a great bill, I'd say we shouldn't work like this. I mean, it can't be that we're working on a project, a bill voted out by the Sejm, but we're not even able to ask what it's going to cost, why it or not. It is unbelievable, it is sloppy, when it comes to the way of creating law in Poland today. And in the case of this law, the way in which it is carried out and treated is already scandalous.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u89	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Madam Senator, Madam President, this amendment that you asked Senator Mateck about has been introduced without first reading, so it violates the rules. She was introduced at second reading in the Sejm, so it violates the principles of correct legislation. I therefore have a question: whether, at the committee meeting, the issue of introducing the minimum 2 amendments suggested by the legislators was not considered, namely, the deletion amendment added, with the exception of the second reading, Article. 3, 7, 9 and 12 and the amendment deleting the act backwards? Was such an option considered during the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u91	I mean, because the Legislative Office has brought this to our attention, we could of course consider making such amendments, but provided that anybody can answer the questions about what these amendments are for, etc., etc. The rejection of these amendments, unfortunately, would not have improved this bill either. Because it seems that most senators... the committee's opinion was nine votes in favour, one against, five senators abstained. I think almost everyone, except one senator, had doubts about this bill at all. And I suspect that a great many of these doubts concerned the very point of denying local governments the right to name the streets. Because that's what it looks like right now. And I think that the colleagues in the council committee could justify it more precisely. Maybe somebody's gonna take the floor. You know, Senator, that I am an experienced self-government officer, but I have participated in changes many times, and I am even the author of today's law on street names. I created this project myself and it is used so far. And it never occurred to me in my many years of self-government career that there would be a government that would think that the voivode, at her own discretion, would be able to invalidate the opinion of the entire city council or the entire council of the municipality.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u92	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Senator, à proviso of this last task: it is already in our law based on this 2016 law that the voivode based on her own will, but after consulting the IPN... [[Exactly.]] ...can correct the error made by the council of the municipality in general, because it is she who deals with street names, etc. But the question is different for now, which is about the topic of these inflatables, as you have subtlely stated. Could these dumplings have anything to do with what's going on behind our eastern border? E.g. with the need to promote programmes in Ukrainian or Russian addressed to this diaspora, to those refugees who are currently in the territory of the Polish state, and with the need to start NGOs quickly. It may be necessary to have a moment that may be once every 100 years, or maybe less often, force such a course rather than another one. Somewhere... [[Timer signal]] ...you had to put it in one of the bills. This one was perhaps the closest... Do you allow this possibility?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u94	Yeah, I'm letting that happen. If the senator wants to reach out to Jan Dworak's opinion... In it you can see that he realizes that maybe it's because you need some money and some way to transfer it. But it's vaguely formulated and we couldn't ask anyone what it was really for. Please note that in this opinion it is written Really reach out to this opinion. This type of change is not needed. And to me, it was very strange. I don't want to get into it, because I can only guess that television suddenly introduces such a myk which allows to enter any external entities freely chosen by television. This is very weird. I'm not talking about getting the budget money again. Ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that television has money at the moment. And it's huge. To strengthen the power of Polish Radio or our television and to help them. He's got a lot of money. Pay attention... I really don't want to, because Senator Czerwinski is about to... Maybe he won't be happy. Pay attention to the concerts. There were 2 concerts dedicated to Ukraine. One concert was a TVP concert for which artists received a fee and for which the head of television does not want to give information about financing, how much it cost, how much these fees were. And there was a second concert, TVN, very beautiful, watched by millions of people all over the world. Performing at this concert Not only did they give up their fee, but Discovery has already allocated 0.5 million out of its own pocket to help Ukraine. I'm just passing... If I say something about TVP, and mostly I say bad, negative things... I must say that the matter of this concert shows us that TVP is an extremely greedy institution and if something really important needs to be done, it always wants more money. This is outrageous.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u95	The senator would like to ask you a few more questions. Yes? [[There you go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u96	I'll admit I'm a little surprised. I wouldn't underestimate my willingness to help refugees from Ukraine. Every initiative should be supported by us. And as for money, it's such a very sensitive sphere. - Tax. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, I would ask the chairman of the committee to check how many individual stations, of course, are large, because together there are several hundred of them, pay taxes in comparison with income and who applies so-called. aggressive tax optimisation. Then, in a slightly different light, individual initiatives, including those, will be put in place, I would call it that the sphere of aid to the poorest, in general social welfare. The question is different, more basic. I'll quote the article. 163 of the Constitution, that is to say, the first in the division of the Territorial Authority: We have laws, apart from codes, but they're rather customary, rather than constitutional... Each law has the same legal force, in quotes. Thus, if in the Law the legislator 3 bodies, i.e. The Sejm, the Senate, the President, will order something, it is the government's job to do it, not to contest it. We're back to the 2016 bill. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Contrary to appearances, it doesn't make you smile. Well, it's in this law. We were the applicants of this law. was the order for local governments to remove names from the public space first, and then added symbolic commemorations, monuments, let's call it, which generally praise Soviet symbolism, communism. If it's important right now, I don't think I have to explain. [[Timer signal]] Ladies and gentlemen, some of the local authorities didn't do it. So what's it like? They have a different law? Few of this, all that was done at the time in the area of monuments, and this is more expensive, because it is a matter of real action, not of changes in naming, which are relatively cheap, because it is only a matter of the resolution of the municipality and the change of plaques, it was then possible to refund to local governments, because it was mainly on their territory that these monuments, i.e. owners, were standing. It was possible to reimburse local governments for the costs of removing such a monument, and yet they did not do so. Is this sabotage of the Seym law and it has to be repeated? Because we're, at least here, moved to repeat it. Yes, it has to be repeated, and it has to be done by a voivode, because some local governments are equal and implement Polish law, and some are more equal and still stand in their territory monuments with a red star. I know two of these myself in Opole Voivodeship.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u97	May I, Mr. Marshal? Mr. Senator, I don't know, you may have misremembered, but I would point out that this bill doesn't apply to the same thing as the previous bill. It concerns something completely different, although it moves within the same matter, streets, names and monuments, etc. It's about something else. You ask me why I'm smiling. Because your words confirm that always in the heads of people who influence laws, legislation, the heads of rulers, ideas are born in the heads of power to screw up to cause... because, for example. Someone didn't listen. Well, there are mechanisms for that, Senator. They're in the bill. You don't have to tighten the screws on the local authorities every minute and put more and more responsibilities on them. This really isn't right. I assure you, Senator... Listen to what people say in municipalities, etc., and whatever the political option is. Even now, in a situation like this, we're suddenly restricting the law. Please note that there, if you... I'm gonna tell the voivode again because it's important. He doesn't even have an opinion, he doesn't have to suggest anything. In fact, from experience, we know that this will be a purely political opinion. And as far as the mechanisms of the voivodeship are concerned, of course, the voivode evaluates all resolutions of the city councils, it has the right and can challenge them, but it can do so within the limits of the law. Of course, as far as what you're saying is that the laws define it, you're right. I'm the only one who's been asking about the point of restricting laws and the sense of introducing laws that take away local governments that are praised... After all, local governments are doing a lot of aid to refugees right now. We see this in the case of floods, various types of events, we see that it is on the shoulders of the self-government that falls very important tasks, which are also the tasks of the state, but the local governments do not evade them, they carry them out. That's what I'm paying attention to. Let us not screw the local governments, let us not punish local governments once again and let us not introduce political things in such an outrageous way. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u98	Depends what, Mr. Senator. Because if you want to argue, I'd suggest you join the discussion. [[I'm afraid so. I guess the senator didn't understand what I said. I was talking about the previous bill, because the state... you were referring to it, too.]] That's a corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u99	You were referring to her, too. As far as this bill is concerned, that's not the case. There are special-needed communities that want us to, I apologize for the expression, rewrite history. I think it's unacceptable if you try to get it out of our historical memory. And after Dmowski's roundabout in Warsaw there are not only Warsaw Councilors and Warsaw residents, but half of Poland, as it comes to Warsaw, passes or passes through the roundabout. And that's kind of a historical memory. It's not just a matter of self-government. And one last thing. Once again: we do not limit anything, we give local governments powers in laws, and we do not limit them. I don't know...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u100	That's where I'd argue. Don't go there. In my opinion, local governments have more and more responsibilities, and less and less rights and they are deprived of what they have so far. I wanted to say that you said your opinion on self-government. I'll say they're unfortunately... even we have a government of special needs right now that's rewriting history. That's my opinion. I have an opinion about government like you do about self-government. But it wouldn't have occurred to me to limit the government or the current power in the laws, in the powers which it has granted by the Constitution and by the law in force.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. That was the last question. [[Thank you.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. Mr Paweł Lisiecki was authorized to present the position of the applicants for the bill. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[If I may...]] You're welcome. You're welcome to the podium, Mr. Speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on the protection of national heritage associated with the names of objects of public space is intended to lay down rules for changes in the names of objects in that space, whose patrons are persons and events relevant to the national identity and statehood of Poland. The draft was submitted by a group of Members and its submission follows In our opinion, From the threat of initiatives aimed at eliminating from public space, removing from public space names, names, names of persons who contributed to Poland's regaining independence. The political dispute is, of course, embedded in democracy, but in our view, its tightening by allowing the foundations of the memory of the nation to be undermined is linked to the risk of weakening and disparaging the national community and, consequently, to undermining the foundations of Polish statehood. In my view, and in my opinion, this is contrary to the social interest of the applicants, and in the long term it may jeopardise the unity of the nation and the stability of society. The memory of those who deserved Polish statehood is therefore not in our opinion protected in a special way, which unfortunately makes it possible to use this issue in current local policy. The bill we presented contains a definition of public space objects, a definition of patron, e.g. the rulers of Poland, the fathers of independence, the definition of the patronage of organizations or institutions or events. The project provides for situations where a change of patronage or patronage may occur. This can be the case when the patronage of the past will take over another object or it will be revealed previously, i.e. before giving a name, facts that call into question the validity of the name. In the event of a change by the local government of the name, which is protected according to the project, the voivodship could possibly repeal such a resolution, while the decision of the voivodship on the basis of the provisions on local government, district government and local government could be challenged by the administrative court. That's about the project we put together.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u103	Thank you very much. At present, senators may report from a place of no more than one minute's duration to the authorised representative of applicants related to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jackowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, you have not been here since the beginning of the examination of this point, nor have you been present at the meeting of our Senate Committee on Culture and Communications. Well, one of the main motives behind the discussion on this draft law was two issues related to the principles of legislation. The first is to act retroactively, which in this record which came to us from the Sejm are found. The second point is the introduction of these points concerning the Radio and Television Act and financing, and the omission of the first reading of these solutions, because they have no direct link with the matter of the Act. If you wanted to motivate these two... Because it aroused me to say that... well, it was a very important part of the discussion about this project... [[Timer signal]] ...aside from the intentions of the applicants and the substance of the bill itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u105	I'm going to refer to the second point first. I was not the applicant for this change concerning the National Radio and Television Council. As far as I recall, this was reported during the work of the committee, already during the work of the committee of local government and probably the Committee on Infrastructure, but I will not remember now. Here we should ask the applicant who raised the question of what his intentions were. As for acting as if the law were backwards... I will not hide here that for us, for applicants, among others. for me, the person who worked for quite a long time in the Warsaw government, one of the sumpts, actually for reasons to submit this bill, was the situation with Roman Dmowski's roundabout. In my opinion, the actions taken by the local government to eliminate this figure, which, despite some differences in ideology, is important for the history of Poland, for the independence of Poland... Well, in my opinion, the kind of action that would lead to such a change would be harmful. Of course, we could later try to repair possible actions of the Warsaw government, but in my opinion it would be better to do so with effect from 1 January 2022, so as not to submit another draft law, such as in 2016, when actions were taken to decommunise the streets. Another thing is that in Warsaw we did not deal with this decommunization so much either, because there are some streets that still refer to the names of communist activists. Nevertheless, in conclusion, I believe that here the basis is to keep a patron in public space.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u106	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u107	Very briefly. Can you justify why such a bill is now appearing? What happened when local governments had to be deprived of power over street naming at the same time? This is, however, a representation of a large community. Are there examples of changes that society does not want to reconcile with? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u108	Senator, as I mentioned just now, one of the reasons for preparing this project was the actions of the Warsaw government, or perhaps not of the local government itself, but part of... Well, not even parts. It turns out that a small group of people petitioned the City Council of Warsaw, which included a request to change the name of Dmowski roundabout to the roundabout of Women's Rights. While I am not disturbed by women's rights, in my opinion and in the opinion of the applicants it would be worth keeping the Dmowski Roundabout, in turn the name of the Women's Rights is given to another place that would have been created in Warsaw. I think there are quite a number of places in Warsaw that could have such a name. This is why they are responsible for, among others. the activities of the Warsaw government. From the information I have, it appears that those who petitioned the Warsaw Council have collected some number of signatures, but the question is whether the Warsawers are for this change or not is not a question for me because I do not conduct sociological studies.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u109	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u110	Mr. Ambassador, I have a question for you. You want to interfere with local government decisions? Okay, at least I don't agree. That's your intention. I believe that it is very unfair, incompatible with the constitution. But I have a question. You know, it just so happens that the government of my city named my name roundabout. I've got a roundabout in my life, okay. But now let's assume that I'm going to turn to the state or the government to change the name of this roundabout. Well, the roundabout of Wadim Tyszkiewicz's name is in New Salt. I didn't want that, but that's the name, so be it. [[Yeah, right.]] Excuse me? [[Nothing, nothing.]] Somebody just said that? [[Yeah, yeah, I'm the one who said that.]] [[Voice from the room: Speak, speak. Don't be provoked.]] [[You can't hear it in the mask.]] I didn't ask for it. The city council named the roundabout after me. I didn't ask for it. I'm gonna say it again. But that's what happened. Okay, and now I'm... Then why don't you give me a hint. If I ask the city council to change the name of the roundabout to any other, e.g. Women's rights, will the voivode stand on my side or not? Will he, say, defend the name of the roundabout, or will he agree to change the name of the roundabout? What do you think? The second short question Is it about giving names of streets or roundabouts in the life of this man who is distinguished?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u111	Personally, with all due respect to the senator, I think it's time to give names... excuse me, patronage after death. From a simple... [[Why?]] As I said, with all due respect to the senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, no... Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to justify why. I don't wish the senator here or actually wish the senator a long life. However, as far as the various patronages are concerned, this five-year post-death period is quite a good time for all kinds of patronages. I'm sorry. Political disputes and certain animosities simply faded away. In my opinion, many people after this five-year period... Again the causes to Warsaw, because e.g. President Lech Kaczyński does not have such a street in Warsaw. For many people there is no such patronage, but it is a pity. And I wish the senator a patronage, after all. As to whether or not the voivode will swipe, the question is whether the senator would be in the directory of those who have such protection. It's not enough if... [[But what if I want to file a motion?]] When do you want to file a motion? I think it's okay to have a resolution like this... Later, a possible decision by the voivode, which would prevent the local government from amending this resolution, could be peacefully challenged to the administrative court and the administrative court, in accordance with your will, could do so. Oh, one more thing, because there was talk of constitutionality or unconstitutionality. The Local Government Act contains many limitations for local government. I agree, it's a restriction, but that doesn't mean that the restriction is against the constitution.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u112	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Well, first of all, congratulations on showing up with us, that's valuable. The question is more general. Well, unfortunately there are self-governments, and the example is the Warsaw government, which have problems with waste water discharge. And we know how many times she's been there... Twice. And I would like to admit that I would like to know how many street names do not comply with the limitations imposed by the 2016 Act in Warsaw, i.e. how many times the government of the city of Warsaw has not fulfilled its obligation. We're gonna have a look... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, but it's not about the subject.]] [[This isn't about the case.]] Yeah, maybe. But can I ask you a question? [[The Member will assess...]] [[You're cheating...]] On the other hand... If you're not able to answer exactly, at least assess it. On the other hand... Perhaps we should review the law on local government and the next one on county, voivodship, and eliminate the rules that give the sumpt to this kind of... [[Timer signal]] ...I'd call it, political waterworks, which makes local governments, instead of dealing with sewage, take care of politics.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u114	Mr Senator, regarding this 2016 law, the Warsaw government, if I recall correctly, did not change the existing names of the streets and we were dealing with the implementation of the law by the voivode. Another thing is that the Warsaw government later challenged the decision of the voivode to administrative courts and in many cases the administrative court restored old names, those which under the law were names related to communist activists. Given the scale, I would probably be able to name a few dozen streets, which in some way or in a full way do not meet the statutory requirements.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u115	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u116	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, the second part of the question is more general. Shouldn't it be appropriate to review the powers conferred by the Local Government Act, and perhaps not just to eliminate them, but to reflect on those that may cause political conflicts?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u117	Senator, taking into account the current international situation of Poland, even considering that Poland is somehow accepting refugees from Ukraine, given that we are perhaps not a front country, but a country where there is war, the discharge of political tensions, in my opinion, is in our best interest as a state, government or people who exercise a broad authority. In my opinion, this concerns both the rulers and the opposition. Such a review, in my opinion, could help with some solutions. In general, for the sake of clarity, I am in favour of decentralisation of power. As much power as possible should be put into the hands of local governments. The state, in my opinion, should be the framework within which local governments move, in which local governments operate. I can't imagine a situation in which. The local government in Poland would operate outside the Polish legal order.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u119	Thank you very much. Brief question, Mr. Speaker. Whether it was possible, under the current legal regime, to intervene in the case of the swap referred to here. You mentioned that this is mainly about the issue of the Dmowski Roundabout in Warsaw. Would it be possible to carry out such a procedure, or would such a law be necessary? I would like to ask that you, as a very experienced, long-term Warsaw self-government officer, would like to comment on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u120	We analyzed this in the Sejm among the people who applied for it. In our view so far, the voivode or supervisory authority of the local government had no instruments which would cause that those who deserved Polish independence, but not only, would have some kind of wider protection, or actually any protection, than so far. I didn't come across a rule that would protect me. Hence our initiative.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u121	That was a standing question, Mr. Speaker. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Monuments, street names, memorial plaques or names of patrons of important objects present in public space are to a large extent important elements of local identity. It should not be surprising, therefore, that the nature and shape of these elements, as well as the social context, should be determined by local communities with as much autonomy as possible. Contrary to this, the proposed law causes far-reaching centralisation in this area and thus contradicts the idea of self-government and undermines the right of local communities to identify the values that unite them. Granting the central authority the right to interfere with local symbolism and tradition poses an additional danger. It is a possibility of discretionary, unsupported by local conditions, to impose names and patrons of a purely propaganda nature. In practice, which is called a street or a square in a given village, it may be decided by someone who has never been in it, who does not know the local realities and does not understand the specifics of the community that inhabits it, and serves for this to be promoted by the ruling ideological lines. Moreover, if, in such circumstances, a patron is already imposed, it will be extremely difficult to make any change, even if the local community clearly starts demanding it. The criterion set out in the Act, the right criterion, which allows the name of the unwanted patron to be removed, will be his activity for the benefit of the totalitarian state or his use of practices known from such systems, or the damage to the State, e.g. work for foreign intelligence. This is a valid, extremely important criterion. However, it is not difficult to see that there is no question of the behaviour of others, of socially harmful behaviour, even if it bears the mark of a crime. This can lead to a situation, for example. The monument of a politically deserved, honored person cannot be removed from public space even if unremarkable acts are revealed in the life story of such a person. This law is, as has been said many times here, already the second law interfering in this respect with the law of 1990 on local government. The first was the Act of April 2016 on the prohibition of promoting communism or the totalitarian system through the names of organisations, building names, objects, etc. Now there's the second bill. There is a difference between them, namely that the former ordered the removal of the names of objects and streets from the public space, according to the legislator of undesirable objects and streets, and this one which is discussed today prohibits the change of names and the removal of monuments so-called desirable and indicates the whole list of those desired. In Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 of And what does the law say about local government? The Municipal Government Act states that it is up to the municipal council to adopt resolutions on the matter of the municipal coat of arms, the names of streets and squares which are public roads or internal roads within the meaning of the Public Roads Act of 21 March 1985, as well as the construction of monuments. There is therefore a real concern that the manipulation by the rulers of street names, monuments and memorial sites located in public space is aimed at promoting propaganda treatment of recent history. In a democratic state of law, such attempts to control collective historical memory against real memory of people and events are unacceptable. Let's add: a generational memory in local communities. This law has traditionally already included several provisions which go beyond the scope of the Act and have nothing to do with the subject matter of the Act. This is, among others, the case. amendment of the Act on Radio and Television, which proposes additional funding from the state budget of subsequent programmes. I will remind you that every year television receives 2 billion PLN in the form of compensation, and since the beginning of this process it has already received more than 6 billion PLN. The Act also amends the Act on Public Use and Volunteering, where a wide range of tasks are proposed to be contracted without the competition procedure. Therefore, High Izbo, taking into account all the negatives and harmfulness of this law in all its dimensions, I support the rejection of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u123	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Speaker! You can see that we're going to call it However, the broadly understood historical policy raises some emotions, which is natural and understandable, as it is assessed by the current political life and an amendment should be adopted. I, as a former Warsaw self-government officer, although I do not have the same accompaniment as Mr Paweł Lisiecki, but as former president of the Warsaw Capital Council, I remember the disputes perfectly well and during my term of office, when Prof. Lech Kaczyński was the president of the city, I remember perfectly the disputes that were during the meetings of the Naming Commission. And they were, also in those days, actually quite strong. He was so-called. the bank to which the names of the persons were entered I think there's something like this going on in every local government. This bank of names, the bank in which the names of the characters were collected for various reasons considered to be outstanding. They wanted to honor these characters in some way, or to call the square, or to call the street, etc. There have been discussions, there have been opinions and this procedure has actually been, I would say, very developed, developed over the years. Even during this period, when I was the president of the Warsaw City Council, the Warsaw system changed, it was integrated into one urban organism and we had several streets of a given patron in various districts of Warsaw, which once constituted separate municipalities. So this was also an additional element of this great work, which was then done. I admit that I was saddened by the current activities of the Warsaw government when it came to Rondo Roman Dmowski, who had been called that several years ago, adopted it in the nickname, well, almost half or more than half of the duration of the Polish Republic after 1989. The idea of changing the name which was taken by a large part of Warsawians as provocative, namely the Rondo Women's Rights... In this sense, provocatively, that it was considered that it was not a name equivalent or comparable to a weight, let's say, with the name calling the person Roman Dmowski as a historical figure, here it was simply referred to today's legal views on women's rights. And that's what triggered the reaction. This response to my question was, in principle, dictated by these actions of the local government. And, in principle, it is a law that in some way enters into the competences, which in turn since 1990 have simply belonged to the council of municipalities, because it is the problem of naming. It's worth reading in the article. 2 of this draft law, which refers to the persons who, let's say, are protected. This concerns: (a) the historical ruler of the Polish State or the prince of the Polish district break-up period, b) the Father of Independence within the meaning of the Act of 7 April 2017 on the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of Independence Recovery, c) another person worthy of building and strengthening the Polish State, the identity of the Polish Nation or the development of society through: participation in the fight for independence or protection of the borders of the Polish State, involvement in economic development of the Polish State or artistic, scientific or social achievements, (d) a person declared holy or blessed by the Catholic Church or another Christian church. I would like to point out to the High House that 2 points concern a specific, closed catalogue of persons. They're saints and blessed... Well, because we know who is holy and blessed and who is the father of the founder of the Republic. But the others, of course, in some sense, are judged. Whether Professor X is more deserving of Polish culture or science than Professor Y... I don't want to appeal to examples right now so that we don't have any discussion. As a rule, please note that we are here in the previous term, while preparing for the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, have long discussed the catalogue of people who are fathers of the founders of the Second Republic. I will remind you that next to Józef Piłsudski they are Ignacy Daszyński, Roman Dmowski, Wojciech Korfanty, Ignacy Jan Paderewski and Vincenty Witos, i.e. the leaders of the most important political trends of the then ideal Polish state. And, ladies and gentlemen, those whose supporters have had extraordinary political disputes, with which our political disputes and divisions today, which unfortunately are, I do not approve of it, would simply be incomparable. I used to give this example. Well, before the war in one of Warsaw's junior high schools, where 7 girls came from families where Roman Dmowski was very valued, when Roman Dmowski, the First Brigade, who was sung at the school academy, didn't get up, the school lost funding, support from the state. This may be such a small example, but showing the colors of the disputes of that time. And how would we read the transcripts from the work of the Sejm and the Senate of the Second Republic, where there was censorship or newspapers... I mean. Maybe the newspapers are more valid here. Well, some speeches in the House began: cones, etc., etc. And then it was plotted, and you could guess what kind of invectives against political adversaries were falling. Notabene in the Second Republic were also feminates. And, for example, The secretary, the lady who served as Secretary of the Sejm, was a secretary. And that nomenclature was in the transcripts. I recommend it. That's history. But that's just for the record. And returning to the essence of the matter: I believe that from the point of view of building a community, we cannot accept constantly changing categories to evaluate historical figures. There's a directory that's been specified in this bill... At the moment I am focused on the fathers of independence of the Second Republic. And if we evaluate this historically when it comes to the very contribution to the reconstruction of the independent Republic in 1918 and 1922, then this catalog, which contains six prominent Polish political life forms, leaders of the most important trends, people who have often remained in terrible disputes between themselves, politics, etc.. Let us respect this catalog and state that such names do not change due to some ideological, cultural, political or whatever economic situation. Because I don't think it's necessary for local governments, I'd say, to revolution. As for the decommunization issue, this is a separate topic. I don't want to bring this up right now. There are laws about which Senator Czerwiński spoke, also in this House, notabene, in the consensus that was still adopted in those terms, so when the Platform ruled in Poland. So I wouldn't go back to that. However, it seems to me, Mr President, that what is actually a heavy burden on this law is what I have also asked you, which is the question of skipping first reading about the outlays concerning, well, the functioning of television. Ladies and gentlemen, of course the situation is extraordinary. But this can be done by a collective act, in which the various issues arising from it will be, so to speak, from the beginning. And then there will be no charge that there have been three readings in the Seym regarding the changes that have been made. From this point of view, I believe this is a very heavy burden for this law. Because she can be considered unconstitutional for this reason. Someone can file a motion... [[Timer signal]] ...to the Constitutional Court in this regard. So that's what I want to draw attention to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u125	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Dear guests! First remark regarding... Maybe I'll start with this sort of looser thing about the main contents of the bill. That's the rules, let's call it throw-ins. Because I understand that during the second reading they appeared in the bill. I agree with that. It really shouldn't be. Moreover, the Constitutional Tribunal has spoken on this subject a number of times. But there's also something called the need for a moment. And the question is, what's more important? Human life, health, the needs of refugees or this commitment to legislative techniques? It's like a glass and an eye. However, I am in favour of measuring, of course, the first one. This means that, in cases of particular legislative technique, it may not be possible to bend so much as to make use of the provision that is needed, to adopt it in good time, rather quickly. Therefore, I can understand that, for example, I do not know, an article related to radio and television, art. 7. It's about those foreign-speaking programs. They're needed now, maybe in two months they won't be needed at all. Let's hope so. And here I'm saying, if you're really that upset... I say this to the people who drafted these rules in committees at the time of their first reading. But making an application for rejection in its entirety won't do any good. We're aware of that. This claim can only be rejected. And at this point, probably... Well, most of the Seym says it can be rejected with a high probability. And these provisions will remain in the text. And if you had made the appropriate amendments, perhaps you could have consummated them and perhaps someone would have accepted your argument. Because the motion to reject the bill that the Senate is adopting is like nuclear weapons. No maneuvering is possible. Please note that no vote is taken first on the Senate amendments and then on the motion for rejection. Because then you could maneuver. But first, above the farthest... I am talking about the Sejm at this point, about the fact that the Sejm does not consider the amendments first and then the motion for rejection. It's the other way around. You're closing your own way to change that. So much for all the bullshit. There is a fundamental issue in this law, as was in this 2016 law, about decommunization of public space. That's what they used to call her, in a descriptive way, because she had a pretty long title. First it was about names, then it was supplemented with other names, e.g. The housing estates, and then the monuments. What was that really about? The point was that the main majority of local governments The municipalities are over 2 thousand, the districts over 300, nearly 400 of themselves simply decommunized. I will say that where I live, in the city where I live, the whole village was named after the names of the comrades, the people who deserved it in the early 1950s. [[That was the last one...]] We'll get to that in a minute, take it easy. You're asking about the invocation, and I'm starting to... All right. And then what? And these names were converted into names referring to people who deserved for the Polishness of Silesia, e.g. Silesian insurgents. I personally live on the street of priest Koziołka. is a famous priest who has become famous for spreading Polishness in a very close area from the town where I live. Good. Then why didn't some local governments do something like this? I can understand that some of the names were debatable. But in that case, all you had to do was ask the IPN. Incidentally, the IPN was involved in the work on this old bill, too. And why would the old bill have to be passed? Well, because some local governments didn't do it because they didn't want to, little of it, some of them, just like the Warsaw government, were still returning to their previous names when they were changed for them. Just angry. My grandmother's ears were freezing to anger. This is very disturbing. I'll tell you why. Because the same is true of this bill that we are now considering. Here again, someone on the outside has to point out to the local government what's out. This is a shame for this self-government! Of course, you can fight a political battle, but is it here, in this case, and this way? The argument: because that is the law, because they have this right in the municipal government law, because mostly the municipalities give names to the streets... Well, lovely, but it's passed by law, and just as it's granted by law, it can be taken away by law, because all laws have the same legal force. There is a special provision, a specific provision ordinary to a general provision. I'm not saying take away, because unfortunately... Well, put it on the right track, show it what's decent. If you don't know how to behave, behave decently, dear self-government. And it is a shame to those local governments to whom this law may have applied, that it had to be passed. Well, most local governments, virtually all, except for one, behave decently when it comes to this bill. Well, decently... The point is, you don't have to apologize for the expression, it's going to be in quotation marks like that. Do you mind? Because it's supposed to be the law that the government has, well, kind of depressed and... Of course you can. It's clearly... I'm gonna quote that one more time. Because you imagine that self-government is such a small autonomy... [[Voice from the room: Right.]] Yes? Well, that's interesting. Because Poland is a single country. There's no such thing as autonomy. [[Voice from the room: A constitution...]] Constitution... Please indicate where the autonomy is recorded. Where? Well, I'll read it to you. Here you go, our master's client. It's probably... Well, now I can't find... [[Voice from the room: Let's skip it.]] Let's cut it out, all right? But this recipe is worth reading, quoting. Art. 163: The territorial authority carries out public tasks not reserved by the Constitution or by the law. Because the law can be reserved for other public authorities, e.g. for the voivodship to do some work. Well, it's a shame you need a bill like that... But it's not a shame for us. It is a shame to those who have made this provision. It's just like that. You shouldn't have done something like this in the old days. But there came such a moment in the history of Poland that there is a slow more, and some people think that local governments have autonomous rights, that they can have a lot at all. That's not true, ladies and gentlemen. Poland is a unitary state. And as long as that rule in the Constitution is, that's how you have to act. It is a pity that regulations such as 2016 and these must be adopted, because this case also affects the rest of local governments. And most of these provisions in general In quotation marks It will not feel, because they never had a problem with the names of their streets and have long removed communist names and communist monuments from public space. Because local governments are responsible for public space. Public, not just local government. But when I come to the main square of a certain city I don't want to point him out right now. And I see the so-called. The plumber's monument, because that's what it's called, I know exactly that this monument is famous for the Soviet Army. Why is he still standing there? Or when I drive by one of the bridges in Opole region and see a monument with a big red star, famous for the Soviet Army, I also ask the municipality: why is it still standing? These authorities could have removed this at the State's expense. They didn't do it. [[That's not true.]] It's that bill. And this bill goes even further. In total, the rules in the individual layer must be applied where one tries to fight politically against the government. Like a group of people who did not accept the fact that this is a democratic choice in the Polish country, and this Polish country adopts laws, i.e. central bodies, the Sejm, the Senate and the President... This group has not accepted this and wants to introduce another law at home, among others. It's just... [[Timer signal]] ...that introduces a nickname that doesn't match... [[Timer signal]] ...let's get this straight... [[Timer signal]] ...with the historical policy of the Polish state. Is it wrong that the state can conduct its historical policy? I don't think so, on the contrary. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u127	Thank you, Senator. Time's up. [[Yes, Mr. Marshal, thank you for watching the time, too.]] Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'll try to fit in three minutes, a little provoked. According to my predecessor... Mr. Senator, if you believe that the constitutional provisions referring to state subsidiarity or subsidiarity can be amended by law, then maybe we will eliminate the local government by law? What's with the government? Let's make a bill, eliminate the local government. In accordance with the constitution, in your opinion, and in my opinion not in accordance with the constitution. And by reference to this bill of conduct... Mr. Ambassador, with all due respect... I've been a senator for over two years, but this is probably the worst bill I've ever dealt with. Unconstitutional, hitting the foundations of the state... Because I believe that the basics of the state are built primarily or not primarily, but to a large extent by the local government, and where the powers of local governments are taken away, that is where the fundamentals of the state are destroyed. I can't accept that politicians decide, for example. about what street name or roundabout name will be. This is a return to the past. Politicians change, today is ruled by the PiS, tomorrow will be ruled by the Platform or God knows who will rule, and each time when changing the power of the politician will decide what is to happen in the local government. Self-government! Do you know what the name "self-government" means? A self-government trade union, for example, that's where the name comes from... Self-government is... it's people who decide for themselves and people choose the patron of their street or decide what to call a roundabout. I believe that the further politicians stay away from the local government, the better for the local government and better for the state. You want to take these powers away from the local authorities. I'll use the example... There is also a discussion about whether the name of the roundabout or the street should be suitable during the life of the patron or not. And I also think it should be decided by the local government. It's the people, it's the community that decides what the street name and roundabout will be. I will no longer use my example, but I will use another example. In my town, in New Salt, we named the roundabout by the name of Medard's father, while he was alive, Father Medard lived for three more years. And it was one of the best decisions I made as president of the city, as the government of my city, in the history of power, one of the best decisions. Do you know why and who Father Medard was? Father Medard was the last capuchin of the Warsaw Uprising, soldier, capuchin, grandfather in brown habit, next to the church and he walked around this roundabout. The opening of the roundabout was attended by Andrzej Duda, so, this Andrzej Duda, the future president of Poland. Father Medard lived three more years. And believe me, if you asked the people of my town if it was the right decision, they'd say it was one of the most obedient decisions that the government has made, and I say it again. We also made decisions about decommunization. There was no bill, and we removed the statue of the Soviet soldiers, and we didn't ask anyone. Not even against soldiers, although we did not like it, because there were two Russian soldiers and in the middle of Poland, but the monument was ugly and lied about history. We thought that we would remove this monument and replace it with a monument for all heroes fighting for Poland. Maybe there were Soviet soldiers among them, we don't know that, because history was running in different directions. And this decision was made by the local government, we removed the monument, we did not wait for money, nor for the bill, we made a monument for all the heroes who spilled blood for Poland. That was the decision that our people made. And when it comes to names, I've said before that there's a Liberation Square in my city, there's still today, no one changed that name, there's a Unity Street, there's still today. Everyone gets used to it, nobody cares at all, doesn't wonder who's united with whom and who's liberated whom. If the residents wanted to, they'd change those names. They didn't change them. Bottom line, I'm gonna say this: Constitution, subsidiarity, subsidiarity, and where politicians shouldn't interfere, they better stay out of it. Let the local communities decide how these communities operate, how they develop, what names they give to the streets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u129	Thank you, Senator. [[If I may, Mr. Marshal, in the mode of correcting one sentence.]] But what correction? [[I've been replaced and...]] No, you weren't mentioned by name. [[Well, because of the senator.]] Yes? Name? You weren't mentioned, Senator. [[I was looking at you.]] Well, just because someone looked at you doesn't mean you've been replaced. [[Good.]] You haven't been replaced. I'm keeping an eye on it. We all know... [[Voice from the room: Situation.]] Yeah, yeah. ...to replace you, so no one's replacing you anymore. Thank you very much. Now Senator Barbara Zdrojewska is performing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you for this discussion, because I think that it was actually quite interesting and there were various arguments about which one could convince one another. However, it is painful to say that the presence of the applicant here has not really changed anything. I would even say that the Member came and confirmed today We couldn't ask him a question at the committee meeting. The fact that we are dealing with such a situation is that a group of Members does not like the decision of the Warsaw government on the name of a roundabout or street, and this group has therefore decided to write a law that deprives the rights of all local governments in Poland. Notice how crazy it is that we are dealing with such ideas at all, that someone doesn't politically block it, that someone doesn't say: listen, that's not right. Well, you can't do that. Well, you don't do something like a law that takes away the rights that have been established for many years, and it's believed to be normal. If we're going to do this because somebody didn't comply with some law, then we're going to have to do it in a minute. Let's just stay with these local governments. We'll take all the rights away from local governments. [[I'll set it up.]] Yeah, it's a bill. Because I suspect that there are self-government officials who do not act stubbornly or bend something, etc. On this road, after a while, we will take all rights away from all local governments. In my opinion, this is a misunderstanding of democracy at all, as Senator Tyszkiewicz said. Me, for example. I think And that's how we decided in Wroclaw. That living people should not be honored. The inhabitants of Wrocław decided by their chosen ones, the councillors, and I believe they have the right to do so. Someone might disagree, but that's what the locals decided. Let's leave it, let's deal with it. I've already said that I don't agree with many things, with some substantive decisions of some municipalities, etc., etc. I might disagree. Well, I don't think this street belongs to anybody, and someone else does. But these are the decisions of these local governments, and we shouldn't go in there. It's outrageous to do this. That is what we have learned thanks to the presence of the rapporteur. But the fact that the Member who signed the bill with other people came here and was unable to answer the question of why these outcasts are outrageous. Because if this law, as Senator Czerwiński says, is accepted by the Sejm anyway, because that is what this Sejm usually does without thinking... He should reject it because we have a lot of arguments, Mr. Senator. But please note now that this Member will remain with this law forever, i.e. He's gonna sign her name, and she doesn't even know what she's signing. He doesn't know, and none of us know what those unconstitutional throw-ins were for. What was that for anyway? I'm already skipping the fact that if you're a PiS... Let's just assume that this bill... Why should such decisions be made by a voivode, not e.g. Court? At least there are parties, we can call experts, etc., etc. And here some voivode who today is a voivode, and in two months she won't be, makes that decision. Because he can. And we're only doing this because we don't like a name? In addition, he said that he did not object to women's rights. I can tell you that some people probably don't mind the Dmowski roundabout. Right? Me, for example. But that's not the point, we're not talking about it at all. This concerns a huge spectrum of cases, various names, etc. Why would you do that? I haven't found any justification here, and there's no need for a moment. If it's necessary, if it's like one of the senators said, if the fact that this drop was caused by some urgent government project... Well, we change the radio and television bill every once in a while. I don't know if there's gonna be another project tomorrow that's gonna change this bill. I think it's gonna come to us tomorrow. Why wasn't it done there? Why not on that project? Why is it suddenly, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, like a pear or a parsley, in the self-government bill? I mean, it's completely out of my mind. And why isn't the government doing that? After all, he could have put it in various covid laws or in the law on helping the Ukrainians, into anything. You could have done it. The government didn't do it, so I might suspect there's something wrong behind it. No one from the government signed up for this, no one came to our committee's meeting, and we're just talking here. That's what I'm paying attention to. Finally, leaving this discussion completely behind, I'm going to talk about whether five years after death to admit... I'm gonna refer to that by referring to my experience. It's better to judge someone after death, because you really never know what the facts will come up at some point. It's best to wait a little longer. That's the first thing. The second thing is this. That's an à-propos. A fantastic monk who then walked around the roundabout. You can plant a tree, you can do other things, you can fund some... you can apply for some special decoration, etc., etc. I don't know why we all think the biggest award is to name the street. That's something I've been thinking about many times. It's not the greatest honor. The greatest honor is all state decorations. This is the greatest honor, because it's up to the state to decide. I'm talking about the Order of the White Eagle, et cetera. For other reasons, recognition of the local community is of course very important too, but with this you can, as I say, wait. And it's better to wait sometimes, because it's happened before... there's already been requests in different local governments to collect honorary citizenship from some people or change street names. So you should never rush into it. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u131	Thank you very much. The floor will be taken by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's like we don't have anything to do today. We're dealing with a curiosity bill like this. We have recently voted on a law which prohibits the use of certain names, which decommunizes public space. I voted in favour. And now we have a law that's the opposite of that, because it doesn't allow names to change. The reason is the incident case in Warsaw, that is because it involves a desire to change the name of the roundabout. Roman Dmowski for the Women's Rights Roundabout. I do not mind Roman Dmowski's roundabout, although I do not agree with his views, I do not agree with what his followers are talking about and in what direction they are going. But the discussion about this bill is really ridiculous and the Sejm, because this discussion was definitely in the Sejm, and now the Senate. Of course, the Women's Rights Roundabout could be somewhere else, not exactly where the Dmowski Roundabout is, but that's the proposal. However, this is not a reason to change the bill and for the government to enter the local government. You're saying we have the majority, we won the election. Okay, you can say, we have a majority of votes in the Seym, so we can do things, smart, stupid. Well, we have a situation where local governments have the right to lay down certain principles of local law. And in connection with such an incident, a change in the entire law that concerns naming. I have to say, this is a surprising bill and I'm gonna say it, too. It's curiosal. The government... the local community thinks so, but either way, you think it should be different. And a mace on the head of the self-government. That's not how you do it. That's not how you do politics inside your country. That's not what we agreed to do. Some agreement concerning the local government law was and the principle of subsidiarity was accepted in the Constitution. This is a principle derived from Catholic social science. Yeah, and then there's all this stuff, TVP funding. Really? What's that in the bill for? What does that have to do with this bill? There was no need to leave with this bill, ladies and gentlemen. Although I must thank the rapporteur for saying what this is all about. He said it was about wanting to change the name of Dmowski's roundabout. To this, and this is important, for the first time in a long time a Member has come to present his bill. That's what I'd like to emphasise at the end. I will vote against this bill. This is where the policy of the current government goes completely... once in a while, once in a while, there's a bill. This should not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u133	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u134	For the record, Senators Hibner, Gromek, Mamytkow, Godyla, Błecherz, Łuczak, Gromko, Szwed, Gorgon-Komor, Tyszkiewicz presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. [[Voice from the room: No. Tyszkiewicz didn't.]] [[Senator, not anymore.]] No. Senator Tyszkiewicz spoke, which means we're removing your senator. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end... tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on occupational pension schemes and the Act on individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts. The text of the Act is contained in print No 643, and the report of the Commission In print No 643 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on 24 February 2022 on the amendment of the Act on occupational pension schemes and the Act on individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts. The Commission examined Law 8 March 2022. The Act concerns the collection of funds of a participant for the payment of pension schemes, which constitute a form of saving for future retirement as an additional pension security. The regulations adopted by the Sejm on 24 February do not introduce radical and fundamental changes to institutions for occupational retirement provision, but make some adjustments in it, taking into account socio-economic and legal conditions. This was also the nature of the joint committee meeting. During that meeting, the committees made 3 amendments that clarified the legal decisions. The moment of entry into force of the Act was also amended as the period of entry into force on 1 June 2022 seemed too short. Consequently, the entry into force of the Act was postponed to 1 July 2022. Both committees shall request the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution with these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u136	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't see any such questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family and Social Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Stanisław Szwed like to speak? Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! A few words about amending the law, but also a reminder about occupational pension schemes. It is a group form of savings in the so-called. the third pillar that employers organise. Maybe a few figures on what the situation is today with regard to occupational retirement schemes. We are here as of 31 December 2020. 2 000 370 employers led the PPE, which was managed by 30 financial institutions. In total, over 631 000 people participate in these programmes. The total value of assets accumulated in PPE is about PLN 17 billion. Apart from individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts, we still have employee capital schemes, a new form of saving. So these are additional forms of savings when it comes to future pensions. Maybe I can give you some information on what the funds look like when it comes to individual retirement accounts. Here we have 765 000 accounts opened for the total amount of over PLN 13 billion, and within the individual pension security accounts we have 420 000 accounts opened for the amount of more than PLN 5 billion 240 million. So these solutions that we are introducing are designed to relieve employers from the various activities provided for in the Act in the field of occupational pension schemes, which are a good form of savings for which employers are dating their employees. Most of these activities will be taken over by the institutions that manage the PPE, the financial institutions, but we will also strengthen the control of the NIFs over these programmes. There were also raised issues concerning the abolition of the ban on the payment of an additional contribution, which was a barrier to the implementation of the programme. As well as the possibility that, where the possibility to pay the contribution is suspended, the suspension, e.g. for a period of 12 months, did not affect the possibility of continuing the programme. These changes that we are making, we hope, also give workers a greater opportunity to get together. Employee pension schemes alongside those programmes I have been talking about are a good way of saving for future pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u138	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Nobody's reporting any questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. And I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the senators... [[Voice from the room: Aleksander Szwed...]] No, Halina Poor... [[Voice from the room: Oh! But Senator Swede also...]] ...Beniamin Godyla, Janusz Płecherz, Ryszard Świlski, Alexander Szwed... [[Voice from the room: Oh, that's right.]] ...Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Władysław Komarnicki submitted their speeches to the minutes. I therefore close the discussion. And I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Bridge Pensions and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 654, and the report of the Committee in print No 654 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Dear guests! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 9 March 2022 amending the Law on Bridge Pensions and certain other laws. This Act introduces fundamental changes that make life easier for people wishing to apply for a bridge pension. I would remind you that this is a pension scheme for people who mainly worked under special conditions, which means they had to work for at least 15 years under specific, harmful conditions. This amendment eliminates the condition of termination of employment and amends the Article. 17, including its scope also the reference to Article. 103a Act on Pensions. The regulations thus introduced make it possible for a person to have a pension before he terminates his employment relationship. This makes it very easy to decide in existing situations, because sometimes it could be that a person considered that he had the right conditions to receive a bridge pension and to terminate his employment relationship, and then it turned out that these conditions were not met. Thus, as if the main idea in this law is to safeguard the interests of those who retire by the bridge. During the committee meeting, the bill did not raise any particular controversy. The Minister present at today's meeting, Minister Swed also presented the figures for those who are going to retire and the conditions they must fulfil. Therefore, the High The Commission unanimously recommends that the Senate adopt a resolution on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u140	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. There are no such questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family and Social Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Stanisław Szwed like to speak on the bill? You're welcome. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Mr. Marshal, live?]] There you go. It's not live here... [[Voice from the room: To the protocol...]] Oh, for the record, you wanted it. No, no, the minister can't. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Bridge Pension Act, as President Richard Majer has already said, concerns a very important issue, which concerns pensioners who can acquire pension rights because of special working conditions. The solution we are introducing is intended to make it easier for those who want to exercise this right. The general principle of retirement is that you have to terminate your employment contract in order to retire. In this case, we make such a change that this condition will continue to be maintained, but it will not be an absolute order. The fact that you have to terminate your employment contract and then the Social Security Office will issue a decision. In this case, the first will be the decision of the Social Security Office to grant a pension and calculate all periods of work under harmful conditions. All these periods will be calculated. Then until the termination of the employment contract, the pension will be suspended. There won't be situations like many times that a person didn't meet one of the conditions, wanted to retire, terminated an employment contract, and then didn't retire. The latest figures, which are from 2020, say that the number of decisions issued is more than 23 thousand. So many people have used this form. The number of refusals is 9 000 500, including 4 000 700 because of the termination of the employment relationship. So the percentage of people who couldn't retire because of it was big. It was good if the employer wanted to bring such a person back to work, but there were also situations where the employer unfortunately did not show such good will. Then these people often remained without the possibility to make up, to complete this period. That's one solution. As the President said, this has been unanimously adopted. The second solution we are introducing concerns the State Labour Inspection, which will be able to carry out on request a review of the payer as regards the list of posts and the payment of contributions to the Post Pension Fund. And a third solution. We are evening the odds when it comes to the possibility of paying from the Social Insurance Institution, from the accident fund to the improvement of safety conditions. So far, the situation was that there was a division and small companies could benefit from higher subsidies. Now we're evening it out. All companies, regardless of their size, can benefit from 80% funding to improve health and safety at their workplaces. These are the three changes that we're making, changes that benefit pensioners. As has already been said here, the committee has unanimously adopted these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u142	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's duration of the query related to this item on the agenda. Mr. Senator Czerwinski volunteered. You're welcome. Mr. Senator Czerwinski? I can't hear you... [[Now?]] Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u143	It's out of the question. Minister, similar rules were in the article. 88 Teacher's Cards. Retirement there was out of retirement, only based on work placements at the board. Don't you think it would be appropriate to introduce such a condition that we seek retirement first, and if it is granted, then we stop working and we can get it, and if we do not stop, then it is suspended? In this article. 88 is even more complicated because there may be more of these cases, research, etc., we can give you... The result is not immediately obvious Maybe that's how I'm gonna say For those who enter this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u144	I think this is a good proposal to consider, because I think that in any situation, if there is an opportunity not to immediately decide to terminate the employment contract, when we have the opportunity to check in the Department Social insurance or e.g. in KRUS years of work... The decision should be beneficial to the pensioner, because he will not retire until he terminates his employment contract, but this time of arrival may be such a period of suspension. We'll also check the rules on the teacher's pension. So that I think that here too, if that's the intention, we could think about changing this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u145	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u146	Dear Marshal, High Senate! The Bridge Pension Act of 19 December 2008 regulates the conditions for the acquisition of the right to periodic benefit in the form of a bridge pension. Bridge pension is a periodic benefit which is entitled until the general retirement age is reached. Of course, it is addressed to people working in particular conditions or with a particular character, in which, with age, the ability to do work is greatly reduced, which is of course linked to the shrinking psychophysical capacity of the worker. There were few amendments to the Act so far. They were adaptable and related to the entry into force of the new social security legislation. This draft law amends the Minister spoke about it. In the Law on bridge pensions, in the Act on social security, in the Act on social insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases and in the Act on State Labour Inspection. The government's solutions aim to facilitate the acquisition of the right to bridge pensions. The main problem that has arisen in the practical application of the existing regulations was that the insured person did not remain in the employment relationship. Another problem raised in the application of the rules was the lack of certainty of the employer paying the contribution to the Post-Madder Pension Fund as to which employees should be paid the contribution. The changes under review concern the extension of the powers of the State Labour Inspection. The new rules will allow the State Labour Inspection to assess the process of qualification of the employer as work under specific or specific conditions. The State Labour Inspection shall be entitled to control the employer's list of posts on which work is carried out under specific conditions or of a specific nature. The draft law also provides for a uniform level of funding for projects aimed at improving health and safety at work. The funding will be 80% the estimated amount for all entrepreneurs, regardless of the number of persons employed. This applies to projects financed by the accident fund. It is also worth noting that the idea of equalising the amount of funding for projects aimed at improving the safety of working conditions to 80%, as for most entrepreneurs employing more than 250 people they will become attractive due to the size of the employer, as so far the amount of funding depended on the number of employees. The more they were, the smaller they were, and in some places they were only 20%. This correction is a step in the right direction, especially in the face of the experience of the impact of the Coronavirus pandemic on business. I have always been an entrepreneur, but I have also worked in economic self-governments. We've been waiting for what's gonna happen today. I'm gonna vote for the outrage because I owe it to the one I've always promised that... and also because I was in favour of what happened today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u147	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, senators: Halina Bieda, Benjamin Godyla, Janusz Pęcherz, Maciej Łuczak, Mariusz Gromko, Ryszard Świlski, Aleksander Szwed... [[Voice from the hall: More Władysław...]] No, Władysław Komarnicki does not He's out. [[Voice from the room: Janusz Błucherz...]] I've already read Mr. Janusz Bladder. ...put their speeches on the record. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Technical Dosor and the Law on Rail Transport. The text of the Act is contained in print No 639 and the report of the Commission In print No 639 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u148	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The law that I am discussing comes from the presentation of the government and amends the 2 laws that have been in force so far: the first technical dosor, December 2002 and the second railway transport, March 2003. It is associated with plans for the construction in our country of the first equipment for the carriage of persons or goods moving on one rail, so-called monorail, or on airbags, or magnetic, as well as other devices which are currently not used in cable-terpene transport or in rail transport. The regulations contained in the Act are merely an extension of the scope of transport technical supervision competence. In fact, it is a law allowing these new technical solutions to be put under the supervision of Transport Technical Supervision. On 7 March, following a brief discussion, the law was adopted unanimously, without amendment. Although the Legislative Bureau paid attention to small, stylistic amendments, they were not made by any senator, therefore the senators Both at a fixed and remote meeting They unanimously voted in favour of this law without amendment. I request the same vote from the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u149	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Did... [[There isn't. The bill is simple.]] Yeah, but I have a question. [[If I can answer that...]] It's not a complicated question. It's a bill that says, vehicles that drive on one rail or in a way... [[Airbags.]] ...Supermodern. Okay, but there are vehicles that run not on one rail, but on one line. [[Cableways...]] On what basis do they function? On the basis of some other bill? I don't know. Okay... [[Voice from the hall: Cableways.]] I take it this wasn't discussed at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u150	No. I, too, at the first moment, when the government presented this bill, I thought it was also about cable cars. But it's not the same as the other cable car. That's technical stuff. I can't really say anything about it. Ask the government side and the people who do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u151	Good. We'll wait for the Minister. I hope he comes. And now, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u152	Brief question: who wants to build in Poland or... [[Please?]] Who wants to build a rail on one rail? Did...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u153	We don't know. At the committee meeting it was mentioned that somewhere in Podkarpacie, in the Rzeszow Voivodeship... [[Soline.]] ...some new technology would be used to transport people and things. And it's like preparing for technical supervision to take place, so to speak, this way of investment and this ability to move. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u154	Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. You're the minister, we'll ask the minister. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Andrzej Bittel like to speak on this bill? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: Thank you very much at this stage. If there's any questions, I'll answer them.]] [[They're ……]] Well, there'll be questions. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: I'd like to answer that.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u155	Mr. Marshal, thank you for calling. I have a question because it's a bit of a forward-looking bill. Who in Poland or what entity, where and what does he want to build based on this law? Maybe not based on her, but on this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u156	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here we respond to the needs of the actors, you can say, from the circle of local self-government. There was a very long discussion about this type of installation in the town of Rzeszów and in Silesia. We have now decided that there is a time when a solution can be adopted calmly, which will open the way for this type of collective communication to these entities, that we can give them and see if they will benefit from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u158	Minister, I have a question for you. It's a bill about these rails on one rail, but there are vehicles that move on one line. In what way do these vehicles operate on one line, namely cable cars?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u159	Based on... [[Railroad laws, right?]] ...railways regulations. [[Oh, is there a separate recipe?]] Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u160	Thank you very much. More questions... Oh, Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u161	I have a similar question. Maybe not so long ago, because a few years ago, the town of Opole presented a design of such a actually cabin railway on a rigid rail. Does the Minister know anything about this and would she be covered by this law? I don't know what it ended with, I don't think it's because it's missing, but it was a rather modern, innovative project.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u162	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u163	Unfortunately, Mr. Senator, I haven't heard anything about this, I can't say anything, but I'll try to explore the subject at some point in time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u164	Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Janusz Pęcherz, Maciej Łuczak, Viktor Durlak, Aleksander Szwed and Wadi Tyszkiewicz submitted their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Water Law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 655, and the committee report In print No 655 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Janusz Gromek, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I present to the senators the amendment of the Water Law Act. The Act aims to simplify the rules for the creation of places occasionally used for bathing, within a period of not more than 30 days. There is talk of a separate and marked area, a part of non-bathing surface waters. The council of the municipality may agree to this, but it is necessary to notify water law. Of course, conditions and scope must be established. There must also be no opposition from the mayor or the president. Yesterday, after a discussion at the meeting of the Joint Committees, the amendment of the Act, together with the 3 amendments proposed, was unanimously voted. I bring to you senators a resolution that can be adopted without discussion. This will affect the safety of those enjoying the pleasure of the water basins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u166	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. No such questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Grzegorz Witkowski wish to speak on the matter? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure Grzegorz Witkowski: No, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you very much. Maybe there'll be questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I don't see any such questions. Let's get to the discussion. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Janusz Gromek, Janusz Pęcherz, Mariusz Gromko, Viktor Durlak, Aleksander Szwed, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Wadi Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law on the creation of the Maritime Technical University in Szczecin. The text of the Act is contained in print No 659 and the report of the Commission In print No 659 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Alicia Zając, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Minister! Rectors of the Szczecin University, which in the future will become the University of Marine Technology! We warmly welcome you for the second time, because you also attended our committee meeting yesterday, 22 March. The Commission has examined the law adopted by the Sejm on 9 March on the creation of the Maritime University of Technology in Szczecin. Our committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure. [[Voice from the hall: Our committee, Senator.]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: It wasn't 1, it was 2 committees.]] Commissions, yes. I'm on behalf of the 2nd committee, just like the senator said. These are the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. The committee was chaired by the Chair of the Committee on Education, Science and Sport, Mr Kazimierz Wind. The committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure with Minister Grzegorz Witkowski at the head, as well as representatives of the Maritime Academy in Szczecin, Rector Wojciech Ślączek, Professor Artur Beiger and Professor Janusz Uriasz, as well as our legislator Jakub Zabielski and, of course, at the committee meeting, also remotely, members of both committees mentioned by me. Since the bill is a parliamentary submission, in the absence of a representative of the applicants, the draft was presented by Minister Witkowski. After a brief discussion, in which Mr Wind, Senator Rotnicka, Mr Hamerski and the legislator who presented the proposals for legislation took the floor, and after the vote on the amendments, in which 15 senators were in favour, no one was against and 2 abstained, the vote on the bill was put on. The bill was adopted by 16 votes in favour, no one was against, and one senator abstained. The Commission has determined that I will be... The joint committees have agreed that I will be rapporteur and will present a resolution on the contested law. I would like to say that the bill was submitted by representatives of the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. All members of the clubs in the Sejm signed up for this project, those who come from the voivodship are Members from that region. The vote in the Sejm was attended by 457 Members, 453 were in favour, no one opposed, 4 abstained. This was the vote on the amendment tabled. Also, in the vote on the entire bill, 453 Members voted in favour, no one opposed, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm passed this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I may not be presenting an opinion on the project here, because it is generally available to the senators, but I will briefly tell you about the Maritime Academy in Szczecin, which under this law is to become the Maritime University in Szczecin. It is a Western Pomeranian university that educates commercial fleet officers and staff for the land-based maritime and inland management facilities. The breakdown into floating and land-based directions is a response to the current needs of the changing labour market. Currently, the academy educates on 16 subjects of first or second degree, such as: automation and robotics, computer science, geodesia and cartography, ocean engineering or production management and engineering. New directions and specialties are being created in 5 departments, such as industrial engineering and offshore wind power plants open this year. All directions are qualified for technical, engineering and economic directions. In recent years, the Maritime Academy in Szczecin has turned towards technical sciences, digital technologies and the IT world, observing the ongoing changes in the economic environment. Graduates of these courses with an engineering degree or a master's degree in engineering easily find themselves in the labour market and are valued at home and abroad specialists in their fields. The technical profile of the teaching and scientific activities of the Maritime Academy and the assumed direction of its further development are the reasons for the proposed change of name, changes to the Maritime University of Technology in Szczecin. Highlighting the technical area of university activity and emphasising engineering and economic competences will increase the recognition of universities among potential candidates for studies, but also in the economic and industrial environment with which the university has been cooperating for many years. The Maritime Academy in Szczecin has the authority to award a doctoral degree and a habilitated doctor in the field of engineering and technical sciences in 2 scientific disciplines: land engineering and transport and mechanical engineering. In 2020, a doctoral school covering both scientific disciplines was launched in the academy. The establishment of the Maritime University of Technology in Szczecin based on the Academy will strongly highlight the technical profile of its current teaching and scientific activities. This year's 75th anniversary in Western Pomerania is a combination of tradition and modernity. The creation of the Szczecin Maritime University of Technology will raise the profile and will be the next stage of the development of this internationally recognised university. For the Joint Committee The Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Infrastructure I request that the draft resolution be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u168	Thank you, Senator rapporteur, for this thorough report. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Matecka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, I understand that in this law for this university, all workers' rights will be guaranteed and staff resources will remain, that the situation will not be repeated, the case of the Zamość Academy, which unfortunately we had to deal with last year. I understand that here all these rights are secured and guaranteed for employees as well as for the entire scientific staff.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u170	Yes, it will be as you say. The first rector of the polytechnics will be appointed by the Minister responsible for maritime affairs, who will give the newly created university the first statute. The other bodies, such as the authorities of the student government and the student government, will become the authorities of the student government and the authorities of the student government of the doctoral authorities of polytechnic students. The Technical University will take over property including property and other property rights, as well as the rights and obligations of the Academy, including those resulting from administrative decisions. The balance sheet for the closure of the Academy will be the balance sheet for the opening of the Maritime Technology University in Szczecin. [[Thank you, Senator, for...]] Perhaps we can also benefit from the presence of the rectors, if anyone would like to ask about the details and future of the existing, emerging university with prospects for further modern trend, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u171	Thank you very much. The draft law was introduced by Members. Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, whom I welcome, has been authorized to present the position of the applicants for the bill. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u172	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! Minister! Magnificence Rector! I'd like to say Complementing what has been said on the arguments that show that this is an initiative that will serve the development of universities I think it is very important that this project, which is a parliamentary project, met with the support of all parliamentarians from the Western Pomeranian Voivodeship, was unanimously supported by the West Pomeranian Parliamentary Team, all Members from the West Pomeranian Voivodeship signed under this project. So I would like to tell you that this project is widely supported by all the political forces and people who have been elected from the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. I am convinced that this law will be a significant step towards raising the rank of a university, one of the most important universities for Szczecin, our city, for the entire West Pomeranian voivodship, as well as a university, which is one of the 2 universities connected with maritime management in our country. So this will undoubtedly be a step in the right direction and I am convinced of it. With such winds in sails, in terms of further development and further successes. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u173	Wait a minute, Mr. Messenger, 'cause there might be some questions for you. [[You're welcome.]] At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the applicant's representative related to the item on the agenda. And I'm asking you to ask me a question... [[Thank you very much.]] ...Senator Alicia the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u174	I will benefit because the Member was not present at our committee meeting yesterday and we could not ask him... At the beginning, when this initiative of the West Pomeranian parliamentary community was born, did the state address the university with a question of how they see this problem? And has this idea been common since the inception? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u175	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u176	Dear Senator, I would like to say that yes, it was a joint initiative. It was an initiative with which you were the first to go out with Professor Wojciech Ślączka. He was the one who spoke to us as representatives of the parliamentarian community. And we've decided that, in support of this initiative, we're going to put together a bill like this. It is a project that is implemented in full agreement with the university authorities. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, may I have one more thing...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u177	Maybe the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u178	How many West Pomeranian parliamentarians have graduated from this school? [[Timer signal]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u179	Next to the Wind... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: Sewerinski, Zdrojewski...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u180	I'll be honest with you, I don't have that kind of information. But everybody's really... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...we support this school. And I hope that apart from the fact that the university educates and will educate maritime professionals and specialists, perhaps in the future there will be someone who will be a parliamentarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u181	Thank you. Senator Sewerinski, you're welcome. Mr. Sewerinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u182	Mr President, does this school that we are talking about today meet the statutory conditions for the name "Academia"?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u183	Academy? It's more like a polytechnic. Mr. Senator... [[University of Technology, yeah.]] At the moment, the Maritime Academy has the status of academy. And since there's an evaluation going on, which is likely to end in the second part of this year... Our initiative was to enable recruitment at the University of Technology. I was included such a conditional provision in this draft law, that for the next evaluation, which will be carried out after the one that is now in progress, the polytechnics, if they do not comply with the guidelines, will automatically lose this status. So it's not that name that's just passed on forever, without a decision. But since the evaluation is ongoing, we wanted to support the university authorities in order for the recruitment for the next academic year to begin at the Maritime University of Technology. Therefore, there is a provision that says that if the polytechnic does not reach these indicators by the end of the next evaluation, it will not be able to use this name.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u184	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I address Minister Grzegorz Witkowski. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure Grzegorz Witkowski: Mr. Marshal, everything has been said.]] Thank you. Is there anyone from the university who would like to take the floor? I mean, there was a signal that I didn't, but please, if you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...one of the gentlemen has made up his mind. Mr. Rector, right? [[Rector of the Maritime Academy in Szczecin Wojciech Silesia: Yes, yes.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Rector Wojciech Silesia. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm honored to be in front of you. Thank you so much for leaning on our initiative. The content that has been transmitted is fully complete with information about the university. I'll just add, because it didn't happen that this year we're celebrating the 70th anniversary of marine education on the Western lands. And this status as if it fits into our round jubilee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u186	Thank you. Maybe somebody else will have questions for the president. No questions asked, but I would like to repeat this question of Senator Sewerinski's evaluation. What's the story?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! Professor! The evaluation is ongoing, we hope that in this evaluation we will meet all the criteria that will be required of us in terms of the status of polytechnics. However, as it continues, we must meet the conditions of this status until the next evaluation. If we do not comply, then by virtue of this law we will become a dorm again, and then we will actually become the largest dorm in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u188	Thank you, Mr. Rector. I don't see any more questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, senators Janusz Pęcherz, Aleksander Szwed, Władysław Komarnicki, Janusz Gromko... [[Thunderbolt.]] ...Gromek, I'm sorry, they made their speeches in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Medical Devices Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 661, and the report of the Commission In print No 661 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u189	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! Dear guests! I have the honour to present you with a report on the work on the Medical Devices Act, Senate Printing No. 661. As regards the course of the legislative process, I will say that on 10 March the bill was passed to the Senate and also on 10 March the Senate Marshal sent the law to the Health Committee. The committee held its meeting on 16 March 2022. The Commission has requested the bill to be adopted together with the amendments, and the committee's report is in print No 661 A. The Commission adopted 7 amendments to the Act. The committee's vote on the whole of the bill was that 8 senators voted in favour of the whole act, against no one, nor anybody abstained. Ladies and gentlemen, guests were also present at the committee meeting: Minister Maciej Miłkowski and his colleagues and Mr Arkadiusz Grądkowski from the Polish Chamber of Commerce of Medical Devices PolMed, among others. Of course. This is a project aimed at implementing European Union law. This is a late completion of the EU Directive as this EU law came into force in May 2021 and the regulation was announced on 25 April 2017. The draft law concerns ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market in medical devices and in vitro diagnostic medical devices, taking as the basis a high level of health protection for patients and users, including small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the sector. In general, in the Seym most clubs voted in favour of this bill, she was expected. Of course, we have discussed a number of different topics mainly concerning the advertising of these medical devices, but there have also been comments made by the legislator and by the President, these were comments. in ordering and addressing the issue of clarification of certain terms. However, an important issue has also been raised with regard to the Homeland Defense Act, which we have recently dealt with in the High House. Namely in the article. 146 (5) erroneous reference was made to Article. 67b Act as amended by Art. 107, i.e. the law on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland, but there is no article in this law. 67b, it's about her art. 69b, which the medical device bill is updating. However, it should be noted that on 11 March 2022, the Sejm adopted the Act on the Defence of the Homeland, Senate printing No. 666, which in Art. 823 in point 2 repeals the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland. The Homeland Defense Act comes into force earlier than the Medical Devices Act. The amendment of the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland by the Act on Medical Devices in connection with the change of legal status is therefore irrelevant. Of course, the committee has accepted an appropriate amendment on this issue. During the committee meeting, we also discussed the issue of advertising of medical devices, because the law does not fully specify what it was also about, what this advertising is. As regards the lack of a definition of advertising itself in the Act, I have taken this point into account that we are not sure whether the activity constitutes an advertising of a medical device or not. This is particularly important in the case of so-called illegal activities. Influencers. Whether an advertisement will be considered, or will not be considered e.g. Hidden marketing on social media? On the example of medicines: in Poland, advertising of a prescription medicine addressed to the public is prohibited, and the promotion of a non-prescription medicine, the main branch of pharmaceutical advertising, is strongly protected by law. It is forbidden, among others. appeals to the opinion of authorities in the field, namely medicine and pharmacy. So pharmaceutical marketers are eager to reach out to these influencers. These influencers are not related to the industry, but they are authorities to their readers, as research has shown, mainly in the age group between 20 and 35. So, even though this is the bill we expect, there are certain dilemmas about the very definition of advertising. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also taken up a thread on the provision of the article. Paragraph 56 1 and 2. There was a legal dilemma and there is some confusion about the definition of economic operators under the Tax Reporting Act, MDR. But then the Minister explained that the definition of those economic operators I mentioned The authorised representative, importer, distributor, sterilizer and body for the compilation of medical devices is provided for in Article. 2 and included in the Regulation in the EU Directive. So that this doubt was resolved during the committee meeting. The second question was the second point where other economic operators were recorded. And here I made an amendment at the meeting. And now, as far as our comments are concerned, to this bill... In fact, it is very consistent because almost 3 meetings of the Health Committee and 5 meetings of the subcommittee took place in the Sejm. And during the consultation, a number of provisions were introduced that were not controversial. Of course, medical environments also raise some concerns, which relate particularly to financial penalties for irregularities, e.g. use of UDI codes which are unique codes identifying medical devices. And this, unfortunately, may fall into the medical environment, doctors, surgeons, that we will simply have to use these codes after receiving these medical devices. During this debate, the subject of clinical trials was also addressed, as the law in Chapter 7, Article. It also treats the rules for conducting medical examinations. In fact, there was no controversy there, but the members of the Health Commission have taken up the subject that the clinical trial law should have been under way long ago. In fact, as far as the committee's report is concerned, that's it. If you have any questions, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u190	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators can report a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur's senator from the place. Are there any such questions? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Maciej Miłkowski wish to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u191	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm very pleased that you're proceeding with the medical device bill. This is a round-the-clock law, which concerns 2 EU regulations. The entry into force of this law is planned for 26 May in accordance with the date of entry into force of those Regulations. The Senator, rapporteur, presented what was the discussion, presented what was the main objective of this law. I will say that there have been some legislative comments. We supported all the comments. During the Parliament's work there was a big discussion at the subcommittee meeting. Very many elements of this law have been improved even after the stage of government work. Most of the difficult issues have been clarified, as the senator said, when it comes to advertising when it comes to UDI codes. Very strong changes have been made in terms of penalties and rules for imposing penalties on entrepreneurs. It is also agreed that the fourth phase studies, where the product is already placed on the market, need not be insured. And these are the main elements. In the middle of a discussion... As the senator said, at the same time the Homeland Defense Act was being prosecuted, and this law in the article. 107 had comments on the General Defence Obligation Act, and there was a change of name. The committee was therefore in favour of removing these provisions from this provision and proposed that the Homeland Defense Act introduce appropriate provisions. Since this law has been passed without consideration by the Senate, we are currently in such a situation that these changes are not in one or the other law notified. And either there will be an amendment to this law, or in the event of the next amendment to the Homeland Defense Act, these provisions would be amended. So thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. The discussion was very, very interesting, among other things. about advertising medical devices. We as a sector, as a government, did not agree to public advertising of medical devices intended for professional use. At the same time, there were questions about the fact that every professional, every doctor who treats a patient, is obliged to inform the patient about all the therapeutic options for the patient with the agreement of the best treatment for the patient he accepts. In the case of medical devices, these are often treatments that are paid for the patient. E.g. have been given examples of implants for dental treatment, which may vary very much in price and of course you must always agree on how much the patient is able to pay for such treatment. But the doctor should inform about it, and it's obviously not an advertisement, it's just normal information. Besides, the information is also all catalogues, all price lists. It's not a commercial either. That's what we're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u192	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of question to you on this item on the agenda. Senator Alicia Chybicka volunteered.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u193	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about the article. 110, which is the Public Blood Service Act. Point 2 states that allogeneic collection is considered as a medical product, i.e. collection of blood or its components from one person for transfusion only to another person, for use in medical devices or as a starting material for the production of blood products. Minister, what about autologous collection, e.g. in the case of CAR-T cells? If we take blood or blood material from the same person, we convert it into a medical product... Well, it even has a name. This is the product that we then pass through. And this does not only apply to CAR-T cells, but also to many products that we can produce autologously for the same patient. Do you not think that an amendment is necessary here, that is to say, adding that after this modification and production of this product it is given to the same person? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u194	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u195	Senator, I don't know exactly what it looks like when you draw blood. As far as CAR-T cells are concerned, it was certainly at the very beginning, when registering this product, that there was a big discussion whether this is a medical procedure, whether it is a health benefit, which is in fact to be free of charge, because it is not possible to patent the treatment technology, whether it is a medicinal product. Well, somebody in the world said it was a medicinal product defined by the Medical Product Act. Here the exclusivity period is very long, so you can use this patent. It's not then... But CAR-T cells is not a medical device, it is a medicinal product. And as far as your basic question is concerned, I would, if I could, answer in detail in writing, because I'm not sure. [[I think it's missing here. I think...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u196	Thank you very much. Senator, you can ask... [[Voice from the room:... office of registration of medicinal products.]] ...the head of the medical registration office, if you will. Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u197	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm the one who's gonna talk out loud because I don't have a card. [[No, it has to be recorded. Oh, there's no...]] He doesn't have a card. [[He doesn't have a card. There you go.]] Maybe I can borrow it from a friend. Dear Minister, I have a question in the context of this law and in the context of the pandemic. Well, both laymen and professionals use masks. Therefore, I ask: in the context of this law, are masks a medical device for professionals or for laymen and can they be advertised?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u198	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u199	The masks are at the same time an individual protective device and a medical device used by professionals. Like I said, any information that's cataloguing... It is possible to present the entire catalogue and price information. This information may be presented. In fact, many people use it as personal protective equipment, not only medical people do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u200	Thank you. There are no more questions for you. Thank you, Minister. Is Mr. Chairman... Uh-huh. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Does President Grzegorz Cessak wish to perform? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: No, he is absent.]] He's absent, aha. Sorry, I thought it was. I therefore open the discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u201	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! This is a very important bill. In fact, I was initially going to talk only about clinical trials, which are included here in one chapter and concern only medical products, i.e. medical devices, as the Act says. However, in the definitions of medical devices that I found in various places, which sounds so that medical devices are a wide category of products, including medical devices, from patches, dressings to therapeutic aids, implants to specialized diagnostic equipment... I'm not gonna read it anymore. This is very, very much, but there are no blood preparations at all, neither allogeneic blood nor autologous blood. For me, the very important thing is what Senator Gorgon-Komor has already said here, so that there is a law on sponsored and unsponsored clinical trials, separate, concerning not only these products, but about everything; part takes place without the use of medical devices. And now I'm going back to what I asked Minister Miłkowski. In my opinion, this is an absolute error in this bill, because, ladies and gentlemen, allogeneic collection is that we take blood, for example. from Senator Matecka for Chybicka and we pass the blood preparation, modified or not modified, made, taken from the tiles themselves, etc. In turn, autologous is that I take his own cells from my severely ill child, and I either push back all the T-cells to increase immunity, or modify them, or produce a medicinal product. And what's the difference between the "allo" and the "auto" in the legal record? I don't see it at all, I guess it's just a mistake and there's no record of it until you just ask for an amendment. Autologous preparations should be included in the next section after allogeneic preparations. And why, Minister, did I use the example of CAR-T cells? Because I know you know what CAR-T cell therapy is all about. It is an autologous collection of cells from a sick child, a cell export to the States where the gene is inserted and where the drug is produced, which then returns. So it's a medicinal product that's coming back. In short, it's autologous, because these are blood cells taken from a child, his own. And that's why I'm asking you to think about it. In my view, this amendment is simply necessary. Since it is stated in European law that the preparation derived from allogeneic blood is to be subject to it, it must also be subject to the autologous one. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u202	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u203	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Much has been said about this law. She was expected. She's a little retarded, but she sort things out. I'm sure she was expected by the medical community. Of course, he has some shortcomings that I would like to mention here. It's a multimillion-dollar punishment that we're concerned about. The Act contains 60 criminal standards, including sanctions up to PLN 5 million, which will be directly affected in the event of negligence, which also defines the Polish producers, importers, medical distributors. The project in its current shape also hits hospitals, as I mentioned earlier. It's medical personnel like pharmacists, doctors, nurses. This has to do with the obligation to write the UDI codes of all medical devices that are not coming from the MDR Act, e.g. delivered to the hospital, and verification of the identification of these products. There's an extra duty for medical personnel here. Well, in these days, when all health care was affected by a pandemic, as well as the current number of refugees from Ukraine, whose treatment will certainly be our responsibility too, which will cause our, well, lame health protection to be even more ill, we will have to face another obligation and failure to fulfil these obligations will result in financial penalties, e.g. to PLN 250,000. I would like to stress here that this will be particularly important in the case of operating blocks, in the field of treatment, because all medical devices, e.g. tools will also be subject to this codification. It may be necessary, but time is difficult to make such a commitment. The medical device bill is needed. However, the recording, interpreted very literally, will deprive patients, as Minister Miłkowski said, of the ability to gain knowledge about all new technologies. I would like to mention here that under this law manufacturers and distributors of professional medical devices, such as stents or prosthetics, will not be able to advertise. At the committee meeting, we discussed whether the patient would come to the doctor and ask about the type of prosthesis, endoprosthesis or some kind of sketch, whether this doctor would advertise this product in such a situation. Minister Miłkowski replied to me that this is rather information, not advertising, but I still have a dilemma that this law does not literally define advertising and some dilemmas arise from it. I will vote in favour of this law, along with the amendments that the committee will adopt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u204	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. In the beginning, as the Minister has said, I would like to make an appropriate amendment which will regulate the issue of this law and its compatibility with the Homeland Defense Act. I would also like to say a few words about this law. As my previous speakers said here, the law itself raises no doubt, is expected by the environment, absolutely tidys up, regulates rules related to medical devices. Although it has been called upon by the need for an EU directive, it is therefore well regulated in this law. Nevertheless, there are two topics that I would like to draw attention to. Here I am actually appealing to the Ministry of Health. The EU Directive does not regulate the area of clinical trials, penalties and advertising according to its rules. These 3 areas belong to our Polish legislation and depending on how Poland wants to regulate this scope, so it does. Currently, in our medical law clinical trials as well as advertising are very dispersed areas. In fact, in any law that concerns certain issues, e.g. medications, medical devices, appropriate records appear. However, there is a lack of a coherent law that clearly regulates this area. Why is it so important? Advertisement, as the esteemed High House has noted, is omnipresent and omnipotent. Surely we all carefully observe how lightly sometimes the medicines are advertised, which are available without prescription, or dietary supplements, which are part of the nutrients. This area is really out of advertising control, Minister. And the fact that we are regulating this part of medical devices here is certainly very important, but at the committee's meeting it also raised a lot of controversy, whether to be sure in detail that we have written some issues down, but I see the need for a much broader regulation in this area, and in particular in terms of supplementation, which is ubiquitous and all-accessible in our lives. The second point, which has already been addressed in part by the senator, concerns clinical trials. Although again in this law we regulate the principle of medical devices, as regards the ability to control public institutions which will use these medical devices, as regards the control of medical facilities or directly already medical staff, yet I still lack such a strategy for clinical trials and lack legal bases. After all, we have a medical research agency that gets huge grants, a large amount of money for research. But we don't really know the strategies and priorities in these studies. Therefore, while listening to the entire debate on medical products, with absolute agreement that this area has been quite detailed and regulated here, I again call on the Ministry of Health to resolve the issue of at least the medical research bill without delay, so that the strategy in these directional tasks is clearly described. And maybe it's also time for a wide public debate, what to do and how to limit the availability of supplementation, which is often even harmful, because patients unwittingly buy supplements in different places easily accessible and associate them with drugs, with which they should not very often associate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u206	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of this law is, through the implementation of the European Parliament and Council Regulation on medical devices, to create a sound and transparent, predictable and sustainable legal framework for medical devices that ensures a high level of safety and health while supporting innovation. And it's very, very important. In addition, they ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market in the area of medical devices. Such a law could be fully discussed if it were not for controversy and mutually exclusive provisions in the article. 56 in the section on advertising. How can legal certainty and transparency be, since it applies in the same Article in paragraph on the one hand. 1 closed catalogue of economic operators previously defined in this Act as well as in the Union Regulation, and the EU Regulation states that the economic operator is a producer, authorised representative, importer or distributor... So we're dealing with a closed catalogue of business entities that can carry out advertising activities. On the other hand, in the same article, in the mouth. 2 other indeterminate, undefined entities and entities are also allowed to carry out advertising. That is, all other economic operators in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1. 2 in the same article, in Article. 56, they can, as I understand it, do commercials. The question therefore arises as to what is the particular reason for the application of restrictions and exclusivity and then wide openness to all other actors. Therefore, in order to ensure... ensure the transparency of the applicable law, I submit, Mr Marshal, an appropriate amendment to the article. 56 of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u208	Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Benjamin Godyla, Senator Janusz Błucherz and Senator Richard Świlski submitted their speeches to the minutes. [[Voice from the hall: I Alexander Swed.]] And Alexander Swede. [[And so do I.]] And Władysław Komarnicki. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And Vadim Tyszkiewicz. Thank you very much, senators. A legislative proposal has been made in writing by Senator Ewa Matecka. [[Voice from the room: And Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.]] And Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, and Beata Małecka-Libera. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: No.]] No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America concerning the deployment of flight security officers, signed in Warsaw on 2 December 2021. The text of the Act is contained in print No 657, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 657 A and 657 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Janusz Błucherz, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America concerning the deployment of flight security officers signed in Warsaw on 2 December 2021. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee on 10 March 2022. Following the review of the Act at its meeting on 23 March 2022, the committee asks: The High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. The main objective of the agreement is to increase the level of safety on board aircraft operating flights between the territories of the Republic of Poland and the United States of America. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 the contract indicates that it will apply to passenger and combined, scheduled and charter flights operated by an air carrier which has received a certificate authorising commercial air transport operations from one of the parties. In fact, the agreement concerns the admission of one country's security officers to the territory of another country. It regulates issues mainly related to providing assistance to officers after landing in the territory of the other State, accepting their weapons and ammunition into deposit and subsequently releasing those weapons and ammunition and introducing officers on board the aircraft in such a way as to ensure that such action is not in place. The issue of protective values and the rules for carrying out them on board aircraft shall be governed by internal rules. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that ratification of the agreement will not result in the need to amend the existing rules, nor will it have any financial implications for the state budget. There was no discussion at the committee meeting. Everyone agreed to the statement that the bill should be adopted without amendment. Therefore, on behalf of this committee, the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration is acting on behalf of this committee asking the High Senate to adopt the law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u210	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alexander Sweden, to submit a report to the committee. Remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Act which aims to give its consent to the ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America concerning the deployment of flight security officers signed in Warsaw on 2 December 2021. The Commission was discussing this law at a 100th anniversary meeting today. The purpose of the agreement, as my previous speaker has already said, is to increase the level of safety on board aircraft. I would just like to add that the conclusion of a cooperation agreement on the protection worth of aircraft on board is one of the requirements for participation in the US visa-free programme, Visa Waiver Program, to which Poland joined on 11 November 2019 and which becomes valid in particular when an American air carrier operates on the territory of a participating country. The Senate Legislative Office's opinion is positive. The draft was adopted unanimously in the Sejm and the adoption was supported by 457 Members. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union today, following the presentation by the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administration Bartosz Grodecki, unanimously adopted the draft ratification bill with six votes in favour. Therefore, on behalf of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, I request the adoption of the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America concerning the deployment of flight security officers signed in Warsaw on 2 December 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u212	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Alicia the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u213	Thank you very much. I have a question: so far, before signing this agreement in December 2021, were there no such flight security officers on board?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u214	Thank you very much, Senator. Which one of the senators will answer? Mr. Senator? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! Senator! In fact, there was no such question at the committee meeting, but as I put it, the situation was that the so-called. The security staff were, only that the weapons had to be secured on the aircraft of Poland or the United States. Now this regulation allows weapons and ammunition to be secured outside the aircraft in the country where the plane landed. I think that's what it looked like, but I hope the Minister can either confirm it or explain it in another way, because there was no mention of it at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u216	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u217	I would like to ask whether this applies only to the United States, or whether other agreements are being drawn up for flight security staff on aircraft of other countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u218	I won't answer that question, Senator. Exactly this law concerns only the agreement between the United States and Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u219	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much to the rapporteurs. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u220	Mr. Marshal, I'll have the second question redirected to the Minister. Does this apply to other countries as well?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u221	You're welcome, Minister. The Minister is so gracious, he will answer from the bleacher. Please. You're welcome. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: May I?]] Yeah, yeah. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u222	I understand that these are the questions that have been addressed to the Senator rapporteur. Mr. Marshal! Senator! High Senate! To answer the first question, it's hard for the security officers to be here if there wasn't a deal. They couldn't be there, they'll only be there when the deal's done. This type of activity cannot be performed without a formal legal basis. As far as the other agreements are concerned, we have a similar agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany. We are at a very, very preliminary stage of discussions on this issue with Canada and Israel, but due to the pandemic these discussions have been stopped for the time being.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u223	Thank you very much, Minister. I understand there are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. Senators Mariusz Gromko, Jolanta Hibner and Aleksander Szwed submitted to the minutes of the speech. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Armenia to the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia on the readmission of persons residing illegally, drawn up in Brussels on 19 April 2013, drawn up in Warsaw on 29 October 2021. The text of the Act is contained in print No 656, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 656 A and 656 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Halina Poora, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report to the Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which, at its meeting on 22 March, unanimously approved the bill and asked the High Senate to approve the attached draft resolution. I would just like to add that the purpose of the bill is to agree that the President of the Republic of Poland ratifys the implementing protocol. At its 50th meeting, the Sejm adopted on 9 March 1 Member abstained from voting on such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u225	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alexander Sweden, to submit a report to the committee. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Act which aims to give its consent to the ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Armenia of the Republic of Armenia of the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia on the readmission of persons residing illegally, drawn up in Brussels on 19 April 2013, drawn up in Warsaw on 29 October 2021, and on which the committee was sitting at today's 100th meeting. The legal basis for drawing up the implementing protocol is Article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation, drawn up in Brussels on 19 April 2013. Pursuant to that Article, at the request of a Member State of the European Union or Armenia, the States concerned may draw up an implementing protocol among themselves concerning inter alia:: designation of competent authorities, border crossing points and the exchange of contact points for the purpose of implementing the provisions of the Agreement, conditions for the return of persons under escort, including transit of escorted third-country nationals and stateless persons, the measures and documents necessary for the effective implementation of the readmission procedure other than those listed in Annexes 1 The Agreement does not lay down the obligation for the Member States of the European Union to conclude implementing protocols with the Republic of Armenia, but for its practical implementation, the regulation between States of the matters referred to in Article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 is necessary as it simplifies and accelerates the implementation of the procedures contained in this agreement, thus contributing to the greater effectiveness of Union law in this area. The Senate Legislative Office's opinion is positive. The draft was supported by 455 Members in the Sejm, 1 abstention. Today, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, following the presentation of the draft by Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Piotr Wawrzyk, without vote, adopted unanimously, with 6 votes in favour, the draft ratification act. Therefore, on behalf of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, I request the adoption of the Act on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Armenia to the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia on the readmission of persons residing illegally, drawn up in Brussels on 19 April 2013, drawn up at Warsaw on 29 October 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u227	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: No.]] No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I would also like to inform you that Senators Mariusz Gromko, Jolanta Hibner and Aleksander Swed have submitted their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, drawn up in Bridgetown, Barbados, on 15 October 2008. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 658, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 658 A and 658 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Władysław Komarnicki, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo. The Act on the ratification of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, drawn up at Bridgetown, Barbados on 15 October 2008 is a government project which was adopted by the Sejm on 9 March 2008. At the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on 23 March 2022, the committee examined the bill and unanimously decided to adopt it without amendment. The aim of the Agreement is to enable the countries included in the Caribbean State Forum to gain greater impact on their economic development through trade policy aimed at stimulating trade flows between the CARIFORUM States and the European Union, inter alia. by reducing or eliminating customs duties on the Union market on goods imported from those countries as well as the elimination of tariff quotas. Your Senate, on behalf of the committee, I request that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u229	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alexander Swed, to present the report of the committee remotely. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Act, which aims to give its consent to the ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, drawn up in Bridgetown, Barbados, on 15 October 2008, on which the committee was sitting at its 100th meeting today. The agreement is a development-oriented trade agreement. Provides asymmetric access to markets for CARIFORUM partner countries. The aim of the Agreement is to enable the CARIFORUM States to develop economic development, in particular by: reducing and eliminating poverty through the establishment of a partnership consistent with the objectives of sustainable development and set out in the Cotonou Agreement; promoting regional integration, economic cooperation and good governance; promoting the integration of CARIFORUM States into the world economy; strengthening the trading potential of CARIFORUM States; improving the conditions for increasing investment and development of the private sector; strengthening existing relations between the European Union and the CARIFORUM States as a result of the expansion of trade and economic relations; ensuring free and unlimited access to the European Union market for all products originating in the CARIFORUM States. For products exported by the European Union, the Agreement introduces a 25-year transitional period for the reduction of import duties by the partner countries of the region. The CARIFORUM Economic Partnership Agreement provides for the establishment of a Trade Partnership for Sustainable Development based on the Cotonou Agreement. The Senate Legislative Office's opinion is positive. The draft was supported by 450 Members in the Sejm, with five abstentions. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, at its 100th meeting today, following the presentation of the draft by Deputy Minister for Development and Technology Grzegorz Piechowiak, unanimously adopted 4 votes in favour of the proposed ratification act. During the discussion two questions were asked: the chairman of the committee, Senator Bogdan Klich asked about the tourism movement between Poland and the Caribbean, and Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka asked about trade between Poland and the Caribbean countries. In both cases, the Minister undertook to provide the committee with detailed written replies. On behalf of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, I request the adoption of the Act on the ratification of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, drawn up in Bridgetown, Barbados, on 15 October 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u231	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Technology and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I don't see any calls. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[I could...]] Mr. Senator, right? Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u232	I'd like to ask the government's representatives a question. In view of the fact that the purpose of the Act is to approve the President's ratification of the Economic Partnership Agreement with a group of countries What is today's economic turnover with this group of countries. The point is that we can see what the context is, the size of these revolutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u233	Thank you very much. Minister, you can both answer and answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Senate! That was the question at the committee meeting, and the answer is exactly the same: about 700 million.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u235	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. I don't see any more... Oh, Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, among these countries 'Cause there's 15 of them in this CARIFORUM. Are there any countries that have the status of tax havens? And are we doing some sort of settlement with them?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u237	Thank you very much. Please respond, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u238	I don't think the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is competent to answer that question, and I therefore propose a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u239	Thank you very much. I don't see any more requests for questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. There are no speakers in the discussion. I would like to inform you that Senator Jolanta Hibner and Senator Aleksander Swed have submitted their statements to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. I'm declaring a recess... [[Voice from the room: But we can...]] We can process, right? [[Voice from the room: Last sentence.]] In that case, we proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in the territory of that country. I would like to remind you that this draft was submitted by the Legislative Commission and is included in print No. 668 and the committee's report In print No 668 S... [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no rapporteur senator, Mr Gawłowski.]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't, right? Okay, so we're calling it a break.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, sir. Due to the absence of one of the senators, I'm declaring a recess until 6:00 p.m. Here you go, 20 minutes off. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 40 to 18 minutes 01]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country. I would like to remind you that this draft was submitted by the Legislative Commission and is included in print No. 668 and the committee's report In print No 668 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to inform you that I am the rapporteur, in accordance with the relevant letter that we have prepared with President Frankiewicz, in the replacement of Senator Gawłowski. Ladies and gentlemen, the joint committees, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration have examined the draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine, contained in print No. 668, at its meeting on 22 March. We then considered the first-reading project presented by the applicants of the laws. The joint committees have amended it by requesting the adoption of a single draft. The main change that has been introduced by the joint committees is the change in the provision that the obligation to make available rest centres, training and conference centres and hotel facilities owned or operated by an eternal company with the State Treasury applies to entities in which the State Treasury has more than half of the shares or so of the shares belonging to the State Treasury. What is the essence of the whole project? Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the war in Ukraine, over 2 million refugees seeking refuge in Poland have arrived in the territory of the Republic of Poland. I apologize for violating the formula of the one-time report, but at this point I thank all those involved in helping those who seek refuge in our country. I would like to thank those millions of our citizens who accept them under their roof, give gifts, including food or medical articles, participate in financial collections, organize humanitarian convoys, tens of thousands of Poles and Poles who, as volunteers, engage in the work of reception centres or help centres or in unorganized forms of assistance. Here I would like to thank officials, government and local government officials involved in this assistance and all social organisations, churches and religious unions. This help really hits from all sides. But help, which is provided to families fleeing the war, and in which Poles were involved As I say, also carrying out countless collections of food, medicines, clothes for those in need, they face one problem. The problem that needs to be addressed is to give war refugees a roof over their heads. Many Polish families have decided to share with these families Of course, these are mostly women with children and older people. With their own space, accepting to their home persons who escaped from the territory of Ukraine. However, it should be stressed that the number of people seeking safe shelter in Poland continues to increase. The burden of providing accommodation for refugees lies largely also on the shoulders of local governments, which allocate local government facilities for this purpose. We all know examples that these people use fair halls, sports halls or other municipal facilities, including facilities that are subject to public or government institutions. This aid, of course, is directed as far as possible, but we must note that today we are already facing a barrier which causes that what was a beautiful symbol of this assistance in the first period, means that we did not have to accommodate people fleeing Ukraine in such places as fair halls or sports halls... Today, unfortunately, such a formula that these people were going to private apartments, is slowly exhausting. Due to the scale, the number of people who have come to our country, there is a problem with accommodation in this formula of people who continue to flee from Ukraine to Poland. In view of the fact that there are objects of the State Treasury or, more broadly speaking, of public sector entities managed by government administrations or entities owned by companies with the State Treasury, and that these facilities could be used precisely to solve this problem, the draft law which I present to you provides that the designated governmental authorities, bodies subordinate to or supervised by these bodies, public finance units and public legal entities, as well as certain companies with the State Treasury, will lend to local government units providing assistance to Ukrainian citizens in whole or in part leisure centres, training and conference centres and facilities providing hotel services as temporary accommodations. The project also defines the method and mode of the loan. An important role in this process is played by the voivode as a coordinating body, among others. actions by public authorities to assist citizens of Ukraine. In view of the magnitude of the costs incurred by local authorities so far in helping refugees, it is proposed in the project that the lending activities undertaken as a result of the implementation of the agreement or the execution of the voivodeship's mandate should be financed by the State budget. It is also proposed that the law should enter into force on the day following the date of publication. The envisaged date of entry into force of the Act is without prejudice to the principles of a democratic rule of law, because it is justified by an important social interest. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the joint committees, I request that the draft be adopted. As I said, the joint committees took account of some of the amendments that were tabled at the meeting. During the meeting a whole group of senators took the floor and we were able to get acquainted with the voices of representatives of the local government community, namely the Association of Polish Cities. Ladies and gentlemen, the project was finally adopted by 24 votes in favour and no one opposed it and 7 senators abstained. I request the adoption of a draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in the territory of this country, contained in print No 668. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u241	Thank you very much, Senator, for preparing such a competent report in an extraordinary manner. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and at the same time an authorised representative of the applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal Sewerinski.]] You're welcome, Senator Sewerinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u242	I have one question. Mr. Senator said it would be a matter of keeping the Ukrainians who came to us in the hotels and resorts. But we do know that this network, this hotel-rest infrastructure, is usually off the grid, except for bigger cities. This is what happens if I'm well aware that these fugitives tend to go to larger cities, hoping that there'll be a better chance of getting a job or getting some help. Big cities here are rich, as they say. We don't say that, but that's the opinion. How they're gonna be locked in there even in a very luxurious environment compared to the ones they live in... Whoever's been to Ukraine for once knows what I'm talking about. So the question arises: what about this infrastructure that is needed, e.g. With schools? In one good holiday home... [[Timer signal]] ...maybe even a few hundred people. I'm sure there'll be dozens of kids there. I think the senator understands what I'm talking about. They'll be on such a luxurious island, but with them living a full life, they'll find a job, for example. in Kudowo-Zdrój, so that children find schools adapted to their number and programming needs, there may be a problem. Did Mr. Senator care about that, too, and if he could help? It's just that it's gonna be okay... [[Voice from the room: It was supposed to be a minute.]] I'd like...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to thank the marshal, Professor Sewerinski, very warmly for that question. We have discussed this in particular in the context of work. Ladies and gentlemen, I also spoke in this discussion because it seems that this type of infrastructure and this de facto soft relocation to these smaller towns is for the benefit of those affected. Why? Today, indeed, the largest number of refugees from Ukraine who have escaped from armed conflict is in large cities. And the truth is that in big cities, these opportunities are accepted, e.g. to private apartments unfortunately in many places run out. We have such situations, and here we have great respect for those who have engaged in the creation of these centers, that we use, for example. centers such as in Nadarzyn near Warsaw. And there are not good conditions in the sense that they are, in my opinion, significantly worse than the better ones that can be obtained in private homes or in these facilities. Why? The facilities we are talking about, i.e. hotels, resorts, have autonomous rooms, today as standard with its own toilet. This is an incomparable proposition in relation to the fact that the family is staying, for example. in a collective space, in a gym or a market hall, even if there are separate boxes. That's one thing. I have no doubt that, from such a purely human point of view, the possibility of staying in a resort or a hotel resort, especially since most of these people are mothers with children, is incomparably better. The senator's second doubt. I thank you very much for this question about the possibility of finding a job. Of course, we want these people where they can be included as much as possible in the local community. We have work and school problems here. These are the two major problems for today. As far as the job is concerned, I also talked to senators, who, for example. represent holiday villages. You spoke with Senator Gromek, who rightly pointed out that a large part of these holiday resorts, where there are facilities owned by whether government administration or individual institutions These centres have different institutions, e.g. The Supreme Board of Control also has a resort. These are places in which all-year-round facilities are very often also available, e.g. sanatoria, and in these facilities a permanent problem is the lack of hands to work, often in places that do not require language skills in their work. These are e.g. Some things about keeping clean, working in the back of the kitchen. These objects are often, as I said, year-round, sanatorium objects. We know that we use different groups. The specificity of the year-round use of these facilities is that during the season they are mainly families with children of school age, and after the season they are often e.g. pensioners, pensioners, people who no longer care for children in a permanent manner. And in these talks, which were held at the moment when we were working on this project, we were told that many of these people would be able to get job proposals Today I have heard a message that the Ministry of National Education allows the creation of school branches even in non-school buildings; of course this requires the involvement of local government. I am able to imagine such a situation that the local government will simply decide to create there, in such a building, e.g. in a hotel or sanatorium facility, where there will be more children, a school branch. So I completely agree that there are no ideal solutions today. The best solution was where these people found shelter, e.g. in private apartments. Support, assimilation, I would say, overcoming the language barrier in agreement with the host is of course the most advantageous model It was often also such a model that these people were even to those Ukrainian citizens who were already in Poland, and then the comfort was even greater. But this model we're going to say is running out of time. It seems that this solution is possible to use this infrastructure, which is the responsibility of companies of the State Treasury or public entities. It's probably the best solution we can use at all during this unique time and mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u244	Thank you very much, Senator. I see there are no further questions... Oh, I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Two questions. One... Well, we want to do well for refugees in the sense that we want to put them where there are available seats, but right now, in the Mother's newly adopted law, there is a procedure that permits it. That's the mouth. In Article 10, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: What's the new procedure for? Just to blur the responsibility? Or just to keep the responsibility the way it is so far? Because at the moment, the voivode is responsible for everything. The rest is widely understood volunteering, also self-government, but the voivode has it in her duties, responsibility for all this takes the voivode. So why do we change that by introducing one more element that neither initiates anything, nor sleeps, nor pays because it's done by the voivode, and it's just inside and decides? It's the best thing to do with other people's hands, we know that, but that's another thing. What's with the new procedure? And what's the new element for? Responsibility is clear now.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u246	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u247	Mr. Senator, I disagree with your statement because the voivode is not responsible for anything today. Reception points are served by volunteers. Children go to schools thanks to the help of local governments, which have to overcome the language barrier. To reception points for which the voivode is responsible, gifts, food is provided by individuals. I'll be honest with you... And I have been involved since the beginning of the conflict; I have traveled with a humanitarian convoy to Ukraine, working with various points in the country. And let me say very gently: I believe that the level of government involvement is inadequate to the scale of the challenges. And I'd say... I thanked government officials because they are also involved, but the system itself is based on volunteering, local governments, NGOs, volunteers who are ordinary citizens. The State has provided one thing. The State provided And thank you for that, because it was an initiative by the government, a law that talks about how to finance it. And here I am giving justice to the government, because without this government initiative, we would be in a much more difficult situation. Just see what it looks like in practice. In order to benefit from this assistance, you need to get a PESEL, and the government administration has not been able to provide enough hardware to run additional points and so that people do not stand in queues. Is that the truth? I didn't bring it up in my speech, but I really wouldn't have the courage to say that the voivode is doing some great job and there's no need for self-government. Absolutely. The experience is that I bow to the forehead, give justice The government initiative, which introduced the framework for the operation, financing of this system, is important and necessary, but the current operation of the system is a huge responsibility of citizens, volunteers, local governments, social organizations, Catholic Church, voluntary firefighters and rural hostels and thousands of other organizations. Because as it looks like I'm going to say, the voivodship's support for reception points... Well, I suggest you go to a point like this, I've been in a few.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u248	Thank you very much. No further questions... [[Excuse me, I'm still here.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I have a question that I put at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, unfortunately, it has been treated as if very cost-effectively by the Legislative Office. And I appeal to the president as not only the rapporteur of the committee, but also the lawyer, because... Maybe one introductory sentence: no one wants to make life difficult for the Ukrainians, rather we all want to help. There is, however, a question concerning companies governed by commercial law in which the State Treasury has shares. In these proposed solutions, the State indicates that the companies will be obliged under the loan agreement, i.e. free of charge... [[Timer signal]] ...to make available the accommodation that they have...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u250	Time, Mr. Senator. [[I'll just finish the question...]] Mr. Senator, there's a minute for the question. [[Okay, but there's no one else, so I could continue.]] But, Senator, you have a minute to ask questions. I, unfortunately, have to follow the rules. Thank you very much. If the senator can answer, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u251	I agree that the Legislative Bureau has responded to the senator's doubts.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u252	Thank you very much. [[But I haven't asked the question in public yet. May I, Mr. Marshal?]] I take it you want to ask another question? [[Yes.]] You're welcome. I remind you that the time for senators to ask questions is one minute. Please ask me to ask you a question. You have a minute for this.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u253	Mr. Marshal, I just wanted to ask you a question. The question is whether we can compel the Treasury companies in which the Treasury does not have 100% shares, so there are minority shareholders of their shareholders, in different percentages, to ensure that these companies pass on their centres, establish, relax or some hotels. These are different companies, because these are listed companies, these are often companies in which it is sometimes different, so to speak, the owner who has 20, 30, 40%. Oh, yeah? [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: You must share.]] Of course you do, I agree, but for payment. And in this bill, we do it on the basis of a free loan agreement. Doesn't the president think it's a very serious restriction on property rights and how does that... [[Timer signal]] ...the constitutional principle of protection of property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u254	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u255	The constitutional principle of protection of property rights can, of course, be limited by law in certain situations, as in this case. And as far as the senator's doubts are concerned, I agree with the answer the senator received from the Legislative Bureau.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u256	Thank you very much. Please, the senator has another third question. May I remind you that you have a minute for them, too? [[But, Mr. Marshal, you don't have to remind me of what I know all the time.]] I have to, because every time you're out of time, you're out of time. If there's a question when you're asking for the first time you're not going to pass the time, I'm not going to remind you of that. It's just that. [[But, Mr. Marshal, I would very much ask you not to yell at me. That's one thing.]] I'm not yelling at you. I'm just reminding you that you've been out of time twice. [[I didn't cross the second time because I just started...]] You've crossed the rules twice, which is meant to ask questions. [[Okay, Mr. Marshal...]] Senator, it's not my fault you can't ask questions in a minute. That's your problem, not mine. The Senate's policy is clear: you have one minute to ask a question. And you're getting that minute right now. Please, another minute to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u257	Mr. Chairman, I have such a question for you about... I understand it's about restricting property rights. Reading this bill, I was thinking about a loan agreement. Will these entities have to transfer such property free of charge? All the more so because I hear a lady from the Senate talking about 40 zlotys. From what is enshrined in this Act, it appears that the loan agreement as such is in principle free of charge and that the 40 zlotys would be the amount for meals or possibly covering costs of the type of electricity. The question, however, is whether we can force a private owner to transfer something without compensation. Well, I agree that in war situations, emergency situations, in the case of different states, we are able to force someone, but then we always pay some compensation. And on the basis of this bill, there is no compensation. Thank you very much, that's the question. [[Timer signal]] Can we do that?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u258	Thank you. That's the third time you've crossed time. You're welcome, Senator, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u259	I answer the senator's question. In Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 paragraph 5 provides that the loan shall be effected by agreement between the competent voivode and the entity referred to in paragraph. 1 and 2, at the request of the executive body of the local government unit, the association of local self-government units or the metropolitan association competent for the location of the centre or facility. In the mouth. 8 in the same article, we read that the funds to finance the lending measures undertaken as a result of the implementation of the agreement or the execution of the instruction are provided by the voivodship, in particular by the aid fund referred to in Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. As for the regulation of the loan itself, it can be found in the article. 710 of the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u260	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, I did not get a specific answer, and I would really like to hear a concrete answer on a problem that is important. This is a problem with accommodation. I'm not talking about all the other problems and the voivodship's work that we're going to be doing. It's not just the voivodships. But it's about accommodation. What's the new procedure for? I didn't get that answer. Then I have a second question. If I understand this correctly, we want to give as many refugees as possible the opportunity to make a decent accommodation in holiday resorts. Then why is there a speech here? only about the Treasury and its subordinates, companies, etc., and there is no question of local government and its subordinate companies? So on the one hand, it's state property, and on the other, it's municipal property. We're using the first one. And you're right. I don't know what we're waiting for here. Shouldn't this be completed?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u262	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u263	Thank you for that question. Indeed, some doubts should be resolved. As President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, I controlled the government and the local government. In a special way, the local government carries out the tasks arising from the Local Government Act, i.e. the objectives enshrined in the Act. It is about meeting the collective needs of the local community. There's very little in the country. I really don't know anything but individual cases. Municipal companies that run some extensive hotel infrastructure or resorts. This would even raise legal doubts in Poland until a certain point. I don't know if that was even acceptable. Later, case law changed, as did the positions of the audit authorities. Now I know these cases, but they're actually very few cases. I have no doubt today that, in my opinion, these centres, in agreement with the competent local authorities, are being used to, I would say, provide such care. Why? If local governments today have to use, for example, in many places. from the sports halls, I have no doubt that such a decision is only taken when a given mayor, mayor or president will take advantage of other infrastructure opportunities that are available. Well, it doesn't turn off itself. opportunities for use, including by children, of sports facilities. This is I'm sorry I'm gonna say classic. The final last resort. I'd say from the signals we have... This infrastructure isn't entirely... We also have beautiful examples where government administration or even Treasury companies give the possibility to use such facilities. But today it does not include all the possible infrastructure that is not being used. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u264	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask. I will make an amendment so that it does not only cover the property of the State Treasury, but also municipal property. I understand we're talking about all possibilities. Will you vote in favour? Because either you have intentions to help the refugees or something. If we want to help refugees, let us use all the possibilities available in practice and in law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u266	Thank you. What's the question? [[It was at first. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. Will you vote in favour?]] [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: Who will vote?]] Well, the senator doesn't know if...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u267	It exhausts the rapporteur's mission. I am unable to answer how the senators vote because there was no such amendment at the joint committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u268	Thank you very much, Senator. We're moving on to further proceding. There's no government representative. [[They've got votes...]] He wasn't at the... [[I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal. Unfortunately, I have questions for the government representative. I would like to verify some of the statements that have just come from this speaker.]] [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: But there is no...]] [[Can we announce a recess? There are votes in the Seym.]] Excuse me? [[The government representative is voting in the Sejm.]] The government representative is voting in the Sejm. [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: Well, well.]] [[Voice from the room: There is one.]] I have that information. This isn't the first time. How will you, Senator, report an amendment... I'm sure there'll be a government representative at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u269	Mr. Marshal, there's a very basic question to be solved. If there are and how many objects which are municipal property and which could serve the purpose of this law. Expanding this doubt It's just about saying how many places there are here and how many places there are there It will decide whether there is a need for amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u270	I also wanted to ask you a question about how many hotels or accommodations in companies of the Treasury and related companies. There's no answer, and there's no government representative. Therefore, we move on to further proceding. I'm opening a discussion... [[Mr. Marshal, may I file a formal motion?]] You can file a formal application. [[Okay, um, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u271	I'd like to apply for a break. I don't know... How about tomorrow? The Minister's answers would indeed be important here. Right now, we're gonna do everything in the dark. I don't know what the point of speaking in the debate is... [[Vote no.]] ...because we don't have many answers. They should be here by the minister, for example, to answer the question of how many seats are available.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u272	Thank you, Senator. Yeah, of course. You filed a formal motion. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u273	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I agree that this is an important issue. This is a very good question to which we will find an answer at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, as the amendment that we will have to table will be tabled. I don't really know either. I respect that the Deputy Minister has a vote, but I assume that not all are Members in this department. [[Exactly.]] And the fact that there's literally no government representative is a signal to me that you want to stop working on this project. That's why I'm against the senator's motion. I can declare one thing: that I will convene a meeting of the Legislative Commission at 8:00 p.m. As I understand it, then a government representative, according to these declarations, will be able to participate in the work. If the amendment is tabled, it will reply to the committee's meeting before voting on the amendment. So we will have knowledge by voting on this amendment, what are the answers to the questions and doubts that have been put forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u274	Mr. Marshal, then I withdraw this motion because it makes no sense for us to gather and vote now. Because my motion has been made, there's an opposing side. The point is not to call all senators now.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u275	I am proposing to you because there will be an amendment, an amendment announced, because there is an amendment announced... [[If there's an amendment, yes.]] [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: Is there an amendment?]] Senator Czerwiński has announced an amendment. Then I'll put this bill on the board. If she doesn't report it, I won't direct it. [[Then report her.]] That's the situation. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u276	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! When I signed up, I did not know that I would have the opportunity to speak as rapporteur, but as a senate speaker on this project. Ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to do so without excluding the need to amend this law, is the formula for submitting amendments at the meeting. I would absolutely like to convince everyone to accept this proposal. Notice what kind of mechanisms he introduces. It is no secret that more than 2 million people have fled to Poland, mainly women, children, older people, and it is not the best place for them to stay, despite the huge involvement of volunteers... Thank you very much to all those who are involved in this, in centers such as the centre of Nadarzyn, where there are hundreds of people in the huge fair hall, as not thousands who stay in a large space. They're women with children, they're often little children. We have infrastructure that we can use, infrastructure that is subject to companies, e.g. State Treasury companies. Ladies and gentlemen, we also know that today, unfortunately, not all of these objects are used. I'll tell you more, I don't even assume evil will from anyone's side. It may be that the management of the company concerned wonders whether, acting in accordance with the statutory obligation to act in favour of the company, it is possible to make such a facility available so that someone does not say that it is an activity adverse to the interests of the company. Here he would have had a statutory duty, we are settling this dilemma. And please note that this is the optimal solution from the point of view of those barriers that have already appeared today. Where do we have the biggest problem? The biggest problem we have in big cities, we have a problem with these people's accommodation under the conditions that will be optimal conditions for those who have fled to Poland. I remind you, these are women, children, the elderly. We have an opportunity. transfer them to the appropriate infrastructure. In Poland, this hotel infrastructure, resorts, sanatoriums, any other infrastructure, which is not used all year round, is really in a very good standard. These last 30 years in Poland are the period during which this infrastructure has changed radically. At the same time, think of such a case. Today there are cities, we heard this... Bydgoszcz using the computer equipment he has, saves for the end of April, and in fact does not write anymore, stopped writing, because it is not what I would say, good information for the person who is waiting for the PESEL number and wants it to be saved as soon as possible at the end of April. And the Bydgoszcz authorities are very clear: at any moment we will radically shorten this queue, we will shorten as soon as we receive the IT infrastructure from the state. Well, I'm sorry, it's kind of technical. I was talking about it, I was talking about it during the discussion we had on the previous laws, here in the Senate, that there would be a problem. The government has assured us that it is a challenge and that it will be able to do so. Yeah, I'm holding my thumbs tight so she can handle it and provide the equipment. We have municipalities in smaller towns, where this queue is much shorter, and even if I have such signals, it doesn't exist. And we introduce a very soft method of re-allocation, because we present this, not another possibility. If someone has an alternative accommodation in the sports and entertainment hall and accommodation in a separate room with a bathroom, I have no doubt that a large number of people will choose this second solution. Where do they go? They go to places where the municipality is able to handle them quickly, give them PESEL, where they can be introduced into the system and benefit from the support that the government has proposed in its project. Well, that's a hell of a solution. Let's take this opportunity. Plus, we already have those signals. Even from senators who represent holiday villages or such voivodships In such places, often those who want to take a job will receive it because there are all-year-round facilities, e.g. sanatorium. Well, that's a hell of a solution. The specific nature of such facilities is that people who do not speak Polish or English will be able to find work there. only Ukrainian or Russian for some people. Let us also note that today, with this approach of the Ministry of National Education, which says: yes, we are open to starting school branches in other buildings than school buildings... As long as it checks out. And today on the radio I heard such a message as information from the Ministry of National Education and I hope it is reflected in the form of concrete decisions taken by the Ministry. Well, since we're using a large object, and there might be an object like this. Several hundred places, after all, this is the ideal solution to start a school ward in this facility as well. So we're solving another problem to say. I remind you one more thing that we spoke proudly about, and it was said by representatives of all political circles, that in Poland because of this huge heart, with which we all approached help people fleeing Ukraine from the cruelty of war, there are no classic refugee camps. Well, that's good. Only that, ladies and gentlemen, in a moment someone can say that, of course, if the classic refugee camp in Syria or Turkey is set up tents, in Poland such a classic refugee camp Someone's gonna say There's a sports hall. So now that we have said that we are proud that we do not have to use such solutions, let's do everything we can so that we do not really have to use such solutions. Therefore, please, I appeal with absolute conviction... This is a very good initiative. I'd say more... After all, if we had a guarantee and today in this Chamber a government representative would say that this is a good project, but given that it affects individuals in the public finance sector, and in a special way the government administration, companies of the Treasury, allow me, Dear Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, that the government will come out with such an initiative, I would be the first to say: let us stop the work of the Senate, let it be a government initiative. Yeah, but we didn't hear that, because in general no government representative attended either the committee meeting or the plenary session. To be honest, I don't understand this situation. If I hear a declaration: a good idea, let me, because of its specifics, because it affects entities supervised by the State Treasury or government administration, we will come out with a draft government initiative on this matter... I would be the first to urge colleagues to stop working on this project for a short time, of course. But we have not received such a declaration because we have no information at all, because there is no government representative at all. So this is the situation... Well, personally, she worries me a little bit, but I'm putting it off because it doesn't matter. It is important to help those who escaped the war. Ladies and gentlemen of the senators, let's adopt this bill over political divisions. I have no doubt that he has the chance to go to the Sejm immediately, so that you can run another infrastructure that is available is possible to use. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u277	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor, Senator Magdalena Lover. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I am listening to this debate, I was listening to a question addressed to the rapporteur, and I am a little worried. Because I have the impression that, as in the case of the bill, which we discussed several items of the agenda earlier, the sense that what is government, belongs to the government, prevails and the fear of my fellow senators that we will destroy these good government, is quite large. And it seems to me, moreover, that I am convinced, at all, that what the state, including our shares in the Treasury companies, belongs to the citizens, not to the government. It doesn't matter whether it's the PiS government or any other group, it's ours. Polish citizens opened their hearts, their brains, their pockets, and directed their activities towards the needy citizens of Ukraine. No one has any doubt that mostly the work of volunteers, NGOs, local governments was based on receiving the first wave of refugees, and to this day these citizens, organisations and local governments are actually doing their job in an incredibly good way. We have accepted 2 million Ukrainian citizens into Poland in less than a month. We can imagine a woman taking two children for the sake of her children and running from the bombs, taking one suitcase. It passes through the torment of the border crossing, reaches Poland and reaches the first 3 days, 4, 5 days into a large room in which there are hundreds, thousands of beds in which for a good cause none of the sanitary facilities are adapted to such a number of people staying there every day, in which it is difficult to eat, and any intimacy of life is difficult to mention at all. Running from disaster and actually running to life, you can withstand these 3 days, 4, 5 days, but you can't endure it until the end of the year. How do you imagine you're going to work with a mom like that? How do you imagine the return of a child from school to such a place as a sports hall or a market hall, homework, playing, life, normal life? Is that what you're imagining? It's impossible to do. We want no Ukrainian, no Ukrainian child, no Ukrainian citizen to feel like an intruder, an intruder and someone unnecessary. Because what war is, we Poles really understand. Therefore, let's try together, finally together to do something that spoils, it's true, revenue companies of the Treasury, but... There are places that have been very comfortable so far, for example. There are about 2.5 thousand, some say that 3.5 thousand beds in the State Forests themselves adapted to the needs of a normal life. Of course there is no kitchen in every room, but there is a sanitary node adapted to the number of people who can be in such a room. There's a cafeteria where you can try to eat under decent conditions. There will be a natural relocation from big cities to smaller towns, guaranteed by the state. Self-governments will not apply to companies of the State Treasury or to the government to provide or lend any accommodation if they are able to provide the same accommodation. Self-governments are not an intrusion to the government. When they can handle their problems on their own, they can handle it. And that's what we know not since yesterday, because we know about the resourcefulness of local government officials and small communities not since yesterday, not since today. So it is really difficult for me to understand, and I really do not fully understand the intentions of those who are trying to stop this process. Do you think that any self-government officer would have shut down the four-bedrooms of some subordinate company while at the same time leaving a sports hall or a gym at a school where they have to learn children? No. It would be the first time that he would have made these apartments available, which are apartments, because the sports hall, the gym, which is something else they're supposed to serve. So I fully identify with the idea of this law, which does not want to make anyone angry, which does not say: you ugly government; you pretty self-government. She says straight away: it's been a difficult time for us, all hands aboard, all resources aboard. I will vote in favour of this bill. And I sincerely urge you to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u279	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Well, we do. Do I have a general problem with this bill? Because, of course, the idea is absolutely right. We're all trying. As Poles, as a Polish state, local governments, state administration, voivodships help. As I heard at the committee meeting: and, uh, the voivodeships don't help much... Our former colleague, the Lower Silesian voivode Jarosław Oremski, told me how many hours he worked and how he sacrificed, how many problems he solved that arise from various issues to help the Ukrainians. And so are the self-government workers. We don't want to antagonize anybody here, say someone does more, someone does less. But there were such words, unfortunately, and at the committee meeting, that it was only the local authorities that did it. Everybody's on it. That's the first line. Second line. We all want to help the Ukrainians, because these are authentic war refugees in as much as you can define the situation... Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, three issues need to be considered here. First line... It's a shame you're not here, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, who sent me back to the article. 710 of the civil code in connection with a case that I raised under the influence, well, the signals that were coming, and I tabled an amendment. But unfortunately, colleagues from the Civic Platform like a roller, without even paying attention to the most obvious legal issues... They say, because we want this bill to be passed immediately, no matter what the issues are... There are companies of the State Treasury in which the State Treasury has minority interests. There are other shareholders. And this law introduces coercion for entities listed in this Act, including entities in which the Treasury had minority interests, loans under contract, transfers of these hotel and holiday facilities. And the article you mentioned by Senator Kwiatkowski. 710 of the Civil Code states that lending is by nature free of charge. So, ladies and gentlemen, we introduce for private owners an obligation to transfer premises free of charge. Well, we can't do that. If anybody agrees, it's absolutely fine, and you still have to praise him for it. But we can't have private owners, in the light of the Constitution, and in the light of the provisions on the protection of property rights... We can't do that as a duty. Because we're talking about obligation here. And that's why there's my amendment. I think it makes a lot of sense. In order to limit this to only 100 percent companies of the Treasury. Because hundreds... here I agree with Senator Kwiatkowski that even this bill is binding... Well, because it's by nature that the company has to pursue profit, right? But with that basis... On the basis of the proposed law, it would in theory be possible to force 100 percent of the State Treasury companies to do so free of charge. But, well, not a minority partnership, I mean. Not 100 percent. Because that means there are other shareholders, we're talking about shareholders or private shareholders. That's what you say about this constitution, the Constitution! The Constitution!!, and it would be good not only to shout the Constitution!!, but also to read it and to reflect on these records. But this is a formal issue. I'm not going to make that amendment again. I reported it because I thought it was an amendment that would allow us to improve this bill or to dispel certain doubts that are there. But at the committee meeting, I saw that there was a point that the bill was to be adopted, and that amendments could only be the Civic Coalition. All the amendments that the opposition is proposing, which, in my opinion, make sense, in accordance with the rules of law, supplemental, are... There is no point in discussing and once again submitting an amendment that you do not want to accept. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski... Ask him questions... There is no way to answer the substantive question, he will answer about the article. 710, because he knows he's wrong, he knows that this amendment that I tabled had just a substantive basis. We can't coerce, unfortunately, stetha... If so, change the constitution and... Moreover, the Law and Justice in another area proposed a change and invited the Sejm opposition, the Senate majority to change the constitution, also in the context of this ownership element. We're also talking about expropriation, etc., etc. But this is a formality that I've been paying attention to. However, there are two important and more important issues, because they concern certain generals. Ladies and gentlemen, as I read and listened to this discussion at the committee meeting, and then here, I had the impression that some of you might be just my impression, but I received it. It's like he wants to force everyone by law. It's as if someone didn't want to help, didn't want to give, so we have to force the bill: give. Today there was a conference by Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin and Minister of Science and Education Przemysław Czarnek on these issues. Prime Minister Jacek Sasin spoke about how Treasury companies help refugees, help Ukrainians. They transfer places in centres if they have such opportunities, if they see that these places are free, that they have no obligations there, the space is not sold, then simply... Foundations of the Treasury, companies of the Treasury transfer money. [[Voice from the room: When...]] Look, there's a conference, it's described in the media, you google yourself. As far as possible, if possible, Senator. The Treasury companies already do voluntarily, after arrangements, after examining the possibilities of a given State Treasury company, what you want to force someone to do. It's like Donald Tusk, who says he's going somewhere to get money from KPO, and Minister Nowak says there's political agreement, of course. I would very much ask that we do not race in such a way, do not make laws for the sake of the law itself, because we all want to help, and we do not agree with the thesis which here is pushed, that someone does not want to help, and we need to force it by law. In particular, this applies to companies where the Treasury does not have 100% shares, ladies and gentlemen. There are all kinds of situations. Believe me, I can't imagine that now, for example, State Forests or any other entity, if they have technical capabilities... The same is true of local authorities: if they don't care about the possibility of providing rural lairs, sports halls, some rooms where there are sanitary nodes, they simply give it away. No one should be required by law to do this, by any procedure, by any dubious administrative procedure, by such a quasi-administrative procedure. And to include a local government that's insisting... a Voivodeship would be such a pen, because like a president. If he wants something, and a company or a public entity doesn't agree to it, the voivode would be forced to do so. That's not the point. Today we all transfer our resources and as Poland we are everywhere in the world admired for doing so. And we do it so that the whole world is looking at us today. (Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz: But not on the government. On Poles.) The Poles and the government, Mr. Senator. He's looking at the government, too. 100,000 came to Berlin, and there's a message right away from Berlin: don't send, because we can't... And we've already accepted over $2 million, Mr. Senator. $2 million. And it's working... [[Who's that?]] We as Poland. Yes? We as Poland, because voivodeships, marshals, self-governments, wójtów implement this. You're doing it. Treasury companies finance it. Yes? Because for now, it's all going so far, from government money. Because so far, this mythical money is still... [[Voice from the room: What kind of voices?]] Government money. It's the government that's preparing this. And thank you for supporting this bill. PLN 7.9 billion has been launched. And today it is expenditure, and the European Union is just wondering how to give us some money sometime, although today this money is needed. Are we gonna secure everything Senator Lover told us about today? It's gonna be really hard. Because it's not like we have a million apartments ready. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. Or a million rooms. See also, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening in Germany. They're trying to help, too, and often these are the conditions... [[Timer signal]] ...a lot worse than what we're offering today. [[Mr. Senator, thank you...]] Bottom line is... I'd really like to think about it... Because we're not against... [[One sentence, Senator.]] ...such a bill, but this form of pressure, not even a discussion, a vote on some amendments... It doesn't bode well. It's a pity, because it's a case that should be between us and not between us.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u281	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator... [[In corrigendum mode, Mr. Marshal.]] Senator Jerzy Czerwinski... [[Because my name came up three times.]] But in what context? Negative? [[In corrigendum mode. I'll get it straightened out...]] Do you want to correct your name? [[Yes.]] Did the senator make a mistake in his name? [[No. But he mentioned my name three times. And I'll correct the statement...]] All right. It's bad to say, an example... [[It will be a brief correction, Mr. Marshal.]] Good. I'll allow a corrigendum. Here you go, three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u282	Senator Frost said that Senator Kwiatkowski knows he's wrong. I know I'm right. In addition, in response to the fact that the Minister cannot be present today, we will convene a meeting of the Legislative Commission for tomorrow morning to seek compromise also in the context of possible amendments if they are tabled. [[But that's not a correction. I wasn't talking about any committee. Well, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u283	Mr. Senator! [[Okay, I'm not gonna...]] The wrong example wasn't from this point of view when it comes to corrigendum... Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're not gonna straighten it out. [[This isn't a corrigendum yet?]] Not yet a corrigendum. And I'm serious. I have a request to the representatives of the ruling coalition in the Senate not to try to start with the mantra: the government doesn't work well, the government doesn't help, etc., because it negates everyone who listens to it to your opinion. Either you want to help the refugees and you don't attack the government, you look for allies everywhere. Also in the government, also in every voivode Or you're baking some kind of political roast. Why? Indeed, in particular women with children need different, I would say, accommodation, certainly not in the halls. If we can, let it not be in the halls, but in the rooms, where there is even basic intimacy, where there is hygiene, etc. It would be good if these places were connected to work opportunities. It'd be perfect then. 'Cause it would help these women just get some rest. Yes, rest, because even at work you can rest. And there should be as many places as possible. That's why, I'll admit, at first this project caused me mixed feelings. I'll tell you why. Right now, it's an art. 12, in the Mother's Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that country, there is a uniform responsibility. Everyone can, and the voivode can... But it's not like he can, or maybe he can't. That's not true. The Voivode has all the tools to help. What does he provide? Accommodation. It doesn't have to be at the hotel, of course. in a big hall, in a big resort. It also provides full-day catering, transport to the accommodation, financing of public transport journeys. Most local governments, which should be commended... Well, for example. here, in Warsaw there are tablets that Ukrainians drive for free, in short. And that should be commended. That's what the voivode has to do. And the voivode has tools for that. I'll give you my lips. 10 of the same article. 12: Voivodeship can issue valid commands And now, listen to me. All government administrations operating in the voivodship area, state legal entities... And it consumes what you want to introduce into the bill. Next: local government authorities, local legal entities Very wide range and local government units with no legal personality. It's also a wide range. The governor has the tools, he knows what to do, and he'll be accounted for. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Gives commands It's just for the record. In the form of a decision. These organs, of course. And now I ask this question: why create a new procedure? Will it help, or will it prevent only one of the tasks of accommodation? It's not enough that there's an element in this procedure that's actually ruled by quotes. It doesn't make a list of possible accommodations, it doesn't pay for it, it's just to indicate. He gets a list from the voivodeship, and he says, "You're here, you're there, you're here." Who's gonna pay? The vampire will pay. Maybe it's a good procedure. I don't think that's true, but maybe it is that this procedure should be used as one more tool. If so, there should be as much accommodation as possible. The state is two large legs: the government and all that is under it, the joint administration, etc. And self-government. Then why did you include in this bill only what is, so that I would He called it, under the government? The companies of the State Treasury are here a question of debate, whether only those with a 100% share or more than 50% as it is in the bill, because we've already deleted this entry by 20% The authorities, organisational units, etc., but the Treasury. What about self-government? They don't own hotels, hotels, vacations? It's not enough, it's often that they have no authority... I mean, not power, but territorially, where they rule. These are companies that... I mean, there are bodies that have their holiday centers by the sea, in the mountains, in Mazury, well, just where they mainly relax in Poland. And that's why, Mr. Marshal, I'm making an amendment here. It is not about who is going to talk about it, we are checking in the vote, in the action, or in the vote. First of all, that's what they pay us for. For the vote. So I am proposing an amendment which is incorporated into this project, which you have formulated, the latter leg, or municipal property, the one that is managed by local governments, of course only in the area of holiday homes, resorts, hotels, etc., which is in the control of local self-government units, possibly metropolitan unions. That is the amendment I make, Mr. Marshal. And we're gonna watch the vote. Not on the manifestations of emphase here, not on emotional impulses, but on concrete votes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u285	Thank you, Senator. I'd like you to take the floor of Senator Janusz Bubbler.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Everything that was supposed to be said, I think it's been said. I just want to confirm, after a quick consultation with members of the Senate's majority in the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, that we will support the amendment tabled by Senator Czerwiński. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u287	Thank you very much, Senator. Move me to the end of the list. And please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. [[Voice from the room: Remotely.]] Remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I'm very sorry, but before that, I had trouble getting reception. I apologize again for this and thank Senator Kwiatkowski for doing his duties as Senator rapporteur. I just want to make it clear that, in fact, the government today does not have the consciousness that it has at its disposal. Because the information that is contained in the impact assessment is information from official websites. And yet the government has a number of centers that are empty today. I can replace them myself. These are such centres as military holiday homes, which are located in Mielno, in Lift There are several hundred beds and at any time the resort is ready to accept refugees Or Darłówk, or other holiday centers managed by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Also to not look too far from where I live The police centre, which is located in Mielno, in Uniecie. Not a single refugee is there, and the whole facility is ready to take them in. There's staff, there's people, there's heated rooms, there's beds, there's linen, there's cafeteria. It's all there, just get people in there. I mentioned at the committee meeting about the State Forests. In fact, there are several or several dozen places ready for accommodation in each range. There are institutions such as the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management, which has its own accommodation base scattered around Poland. I was talking about Karpacz, where there are dozens of places, but such places are in Zakopane and in many, many other towns. There are hundreds of such institutions and accommodations Tens of thousands, not 100,000. Why is inventory needed? Because the government doesn't know how many places there are in the localities. In fact, local governments know that. It is the voivodships who, after receiving information from local governments, are able to prepare this kind of database very quickly. Therefore, it is very important to cooperate, cooperation between local government and voivodships on this matter. And there's nothing to look for, because today we're all proud of it. And the world is looking at us and judging us. That Poles, because it is mainly Poles and local government, to give the truth, engaged in receiving Ukrainian refugees to Poland, giving their own apartments, taking them to hotels. And the government base, broadly understood, stands empty. There is a company called the Polish Hotel Holding, 100% State Treasury. I wonder how many refugees have been admitted there. And it's not like the government doesn't know about this company, because the wife of Minister Chiefnernacker, who deals mostly with matters concerning... Minister Chezernaker mainly deals with cases concerning the reception of refugees, and his wife works in this company, he is one of the directors there. I could exchange other connections. I don't want to do this because I want to make it clear that it's out of the question. And I'm sad when I listen to the senators say that they're looking for a second bottom here. Because if the government had really wanted to use these objects over the last few weeks, there would have been refugees in these facilities today. There is no refugee in any of these facilities, so this law is needed for joint, rapid action. What else do you need a local government for? Because these people are gonna go somewhere. These are women with children and these women with children will immediately seek care of children, schools, kindergartens. Thus the local government will also perfectly fulfil the role of assistance and support in this part. Finally, it is not that these people will not find a job there, because these objects are very often located in holiday resorts. There's a shortage of people to work there. And it's really gonna be pretty easy for those people to get a job there. Is that in the medical, IT... Today is really an area where these people will find a job without a big problem in these towns. Joint action is needed, an agreement is needed over political divisions and I agree entirely... Because until now, I had such a belief that the local government had already given up all its spare seats in bourches, boarding houses, halls. But if there are any holiday centers I don't know about self-government, but maybe there are self-governments that own hotels or holiday resorts. Please add them to this bill. With my heart and my hands I will support these solutions, because in fact in this matter we should not look for divisions In this regard, agreement, consent and full support must be sought. I am convinced that in these places we are able to provide a minimum of intimacy, a minimum of good shelter and full support for families who will come to Poland. That is why I ask all senators in the Senate today to support this bill and I ask the Senators of the PiS who have colleagues in the Sejm to encourage Members who have a majority of the Sejm to support the bill, because it will really help us together, together in some part, to solve this burning problem, which is the accommodation of refugees in Poland. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u289	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u290	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the people of Poland for the help they offer to refugees fleeing Ukraine, where Russia's aggression continues and where things are happening that we thought we would not see for the rest of our lives. We were sure that in this part Europe won't be a war. We have lived in peace and peace for many years, and at the moment this situation we are seeing is unacceptable. But once again I want to thank all Polish people for what they are doing for this huge help. Thanks to them first of all. Because the government has a duty, yes, a duty. And this isn't exactly a place to thank you for what you do with duty. It is also good that the government is working and the situation on this issue is improving. But the inhabitants of Poland do not have such an obligation, they do it out of good will and not because they receive some 40 PLN. This helps, but it does not compensate for the effort that individual people or our society are putting into this help. But the government has some responsibilities that, well, they do things differently. I'll ask: where's the relocation? For ideological reasons, the government does not request relocation and transfer of quotas or distribution of these groups of refugees and transfer them to other countries. And that's what's necessary. It is good that the Germans, the Swedes accept those refugees who pass through our territory, it is good that they do not say: you did not help us in 2015, then do well. We talked about it, and I talked about it. You said in 2015 that we didn't care. What if something happens in Ukraine? And it happened, there's a war in Ukraine. For me it is incomprehensible that the government does not apply for relocation of refugees to other countries. And it's obvious to me that he's doing it for ideological reasons. For 900 000 refugees placed in private apartments, hosted in private apartments... 450,000 is outside of private apartments. This is the statistics given by the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs at the previous meeting in which we dealt with this large law. That's intercourse. 2:1. This is the attitude of Polish society's aid to various other forms of aid. You say, "We'll see how you vote." Yeah, we'll see how you vote. We will see if the slogans for joint action, burying ditches and trying to agree on this situation, extremely dangerous and difficult for our country, for our society... Are we able to communicate? We'll see how you vote on this bill. You voted against the amendment so as not to differentiate refugees from Ukraine regardless of where they come from. And we have a situation that's been... We have a recipe that says that we only help those refugees from Ukraine who come directly from Ukraine. The rest receive only a tolerated stay. And what happens next? It's gotta be changed. It's a good thing the government decided to do that and sent in a change to the bill. I'm sure we'll support her. But did it take a few weeks to create a situation of uncertainty and differentiation? People came to me and said, "I'm sorry, I came from Moldova." What's the difference? Don't I get anything here? No help. It was hard to explain why. I can't say there was an amendment, but the majority of the government rejected it because it wasn't that kind of conversation. But that's what happened. If you reject this bill, and I fear it will, because for a reason we have a situation in which the Minister, the representative of the Home Office or the Government, does not come to the committee meeting, does not come to plenary... Ladies and gentlemen, there is no announced minister. It's empty. With information on who from the government... There is no one to even ask, there was no one to ask, what is the situation in entities belonging to the State Treasury or directly to the government, because the government also has its own resorts. What is the situation in the Polish Hotel Holding, which has 54 facilities? I don't think these are objects in the woods. These are hotel facilities. If we count that it can accommodate 100 people there, it's over 5,000. More than 14 000 is a very approximate and understated number, which is indicated in the justification of this law. But we don't know exactly if those refugees are there. We hear declarations that they're definitely there. Then why didn't the government's representative come to say: these objects are filled, there's no point, we've already done it? I am afraid that this is not the case, not just for political reasons, that the opposition here with the majority is proposing, not because you have different objections, but because there is probably nothing going on in these areas, that there are no such refugees and they should be. Why should they be? To a large extent, if these refugees are in coastal and submountain regions, about a month from now, those who host will want to, or some of them will want to rent these facilities, as they used to do every year and make money on it, sometimes they lived out of it. And if we don't do that right now, we won't be safe, then about a month from now, at the turn of April and May, there could be situations that shouldn't be happening and that would compromise us. It'll lead us to the fact that we're gonna have to explain ourselves... [[Timer signal]] ...because unfortunately such situations can be. [[Time, Mr. Marshal.]] And finally... So this has to be done, because in a month, we're gonna have a problem that we can't move these people again anywhere. [[Timer signal]] [[Time, Mr. Marshal.]] And one last thing... [[Mr. Marshal, it's been ten minutes. Everyone's had ten minutes. I'm sorry.]] Good. It is to be expected that if there are fights in the cities, very bloody...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u291	Mr. Marshal, everyone had 10 minutes. I'm sorry. We agreed at the Senate Bureau meeting, in which you also participated, that we would respect this very strictly, so I respect and take away your voice. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Thank you so much for taking my vote...]] I'm not picking up. I'm just finishing your speech. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Thank you. Well, we all have to be treated equally.]] Yes, sir. [[And I'm taking your lead.]] Yes, sir. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] I'm stepping down from force. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u292	Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Sorry, it was a joke. Mr. Marshal had to change me anyway so I could perform and say what I had to say. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u293	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Contrary to appearances, I believe that this discussion was extremely necessary and we have reached a compromise. Yes, I publicly declare that I support Senator Czerwinski's amendment. Let's add community infrastructure to that. Then there will be no doubt that anyone who votes against this project is opposed to another tool that is intended to help local governments effectively. But I am convinced that we will all support this initiative because, as you can see, we want to support such a provision so that there is no doubt that the only intention of this law is not to push between government and local government, but only the only intention of this law is to help effectively. I'll tell you more: we're saving this government again because you're asking each other poverty, just like you did with that directness. Why are we saving him? If this bill doesn't exist, in the future you'll be wondering, for example. someone will not accuse the representative of any State Treasury company that it acted to the detriment of the company. And this law excludes such responsibility because it gives a legal basis. That's another time we've been trying to keep you from getting into trouble. We said remove the principle of directness. I myself was in the group that tabled this amendment. I explained to the Vice Minister: you will have a situation that someone will come for help and find out that this help is not due to him because he had this misfortune that he was fleeing from Odessa through Moldova, not directly across the Polish-Ukrainian border. This bill is exactly the same record. In a moment, these representatives of the Treasury companies, I assume that maybe they already are. They will be wondering if they did it in accordance with the regulations. Notice what we're saying. We extend our hand so that this project is adopted over any divisions and differences. We support the amendment that Senator Czerwiński has announced. I even declare that if I want to, I can look at her and help see if she's legislatively well prepared so that the Legislative Office doesn't reject this amendment, saying that she's badly prepared. I am absolutely ready to help just so that we can all adopt this bill tomorrow and then so that the Sejm can adopt it as soon as possible. Under this agreement, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already said, I have also agreed with President Frankiewicz that we are calling a joint committee meeting tomorrow. No government representative can come today, I'm not getting into the cause. We are convening committees tomorrow at 8:00 a.m. so that a representative of the government can attend the meeting and comment. Finally, a formal request that I do not take the floor again: I request that the committees be appointed for the preparation of an additional report in order to carry out the third reading of the draft law at this meeting. This project is expected, needed. Let's get him over political divisions as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u294	Thank you, Senator. How about nine o'clock is the committee meeting? [[No, eight o'clock.]] [[There's no room. 8:00 is the only time...]] Good. Okay. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I didn't want to speak anymore, but if you're Senator Gawłowski I don't know if he can hear us or hear us, he gave an example of the Polish Hotel Holding, and I think one of the senators also mentioned this company... Ladies and gentlemen, the Polish Hotel Holding reported 3,000 seats to the regional offices It's also for you a marshal's information about 3,000 places in his hotels and facilities. Currently, around 1.5 thousand people from Ukraine are located in PHH facilities throughout Poland. This number is constantly changing depending on the arrival of further groups, and hotels primarily serve as hubs in their regions. In total, since the beginning of the war in Ukraine, Polish Hotel Holding has provided nearly 30,000 accommodations for Ukrainians. And what I said, ladies and gentlemen, today is the conference of Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin, who provided the data... 20 million PLN all companies of the Treasury, which are in the supervision of the Prime Minister, transferred to help Ukrainians, Ukrainian refugees who are here today, in Poland. This is happening regardless of the laws that are adopted... So don't insinuate that there is no help, and that only after a bill has been passed, then will this help be and then the government... Because if this bill doesn't exist, these places aren't... Where there's a possibility, it's happening. After all, this is also the specificity of the different actors and where refugees want to be. We already have such signals that it is not always refugees who want to be relocated to these smaller towns, unfortunately, and the big cities, as we know, are already largely clogged with quotes. Nobody's hiding any places here. We're all trying to help the Ukrainians. And the local government helps and here I bow to the forehead of and Poles help, but also helps the state, also helps various types of state institutions, state legal entities. I don't understand why you're trying to dissuade state activity, government activity in different areas. This really isn't a question that we should share. And so to speak, insinuations only stutter. Because on the one hand, speaking on the speaker whether it is Senator Kwiatkowski or anyone else, they say yes, let's do it together, but on the other hand, whenever it is possible to say that something is wrong, it is also said that the government is guilty. Ladies and gentlemen, for 2 million refugees, more than 2 million refugees accepted in 3 weeks, this is all working brilliantly. Excellent! Ladies and gentlemen, Germany in 2015 I can't remember who was talking about it anymore. I think Marshal Borusewicz accepted 1 million in hangars, tents, anywhere. This is twice as big and, slightly counting, four times richer. And we have shared the efforts of the state, local governments, Poles and more than 2 million. And nobody sleeps in tents here, ladies and gentlemen. There's probably difficult conditions, and there's probably going to be difficult situations. We'll see how many more people are coming, see how this wretched war or these armed activities are going to take place. So don't make such thought structures here: good government, bad government, someone hiding something, someone doesn't want something, someone doesn't know something... Minister Gawłowski, I assure you, the government knows what kind of... And, so to speak, without waiting for any law, where it is possible, the companies of the State Treasury and not only them, because it was a matter of the fact that various kinds of services did so, if only it was possible, they transferred their special training centres, leisure facilities. And it has been happening, ladies and gentlemen, for several days now. And the fact that things are gonna be tough... Probably, because no one's prepared for a party without problems... [[Timer signal]] ...2 million extra residents. And this is, after all, almost 5% of the population of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u296	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I must refer to what was said earlier. And I would like to start by saying that you are actually right, that it was Poland that stood up to the task, that Poles stood up to the task. But above all it is Poland of Kowalski, Nowaków, ordinary citizens above all. Of course, you're right that the government has done a good job too. I think that the mere opening of the border for visitors from war areas is a matter of appreciation for the government. And no one's questioning that. But the worst thing that can happen is to move around, organize press conferences and talk about how it's us, us, us, us, we... Yes? We're the government, we're the The state, us. And the country is mostly citizens. And I would like, while appreciating the role of the government, to make it clear With full responsibility it is I said That 95% of the success that Senator Frost was talking about... 90% success depends on the behaviour of local governments and ordinary citizens. It is above all the ordinary citizens who have accepted refugees from Ukraine into their homes, and they deserve the most thanks. Yes, the voivode has tools, the voivode makes decisions And praise him for that, no one is questioning it. But the decisions, the tools, no one's gonna eat, no one's gonna find a roof over their heads. The Voivodeship makes decisions, but all the work is done by the local government and actually by the citizens. I do not want to talk about the percentage, what percentage of Poland's success we owe to Poles, but I would like to say first of all that many, many Poles And I'm dealing with it every day. He doesn't look at the statistics the voivod is doing. I'm sorry to say this, but the voivode is primarily involved in relocation of refugees on this principle: they've been sent to me, they've got to be on the list, and I'm gonna put them on the right sports hall. First of all, that's what it comes down to. This assistance is implemented mainly by the local government and Poles, not by the voivode. The province has mechanisms through which it sends refugees to specific addresses, but at these specific addresses there are specific people and, above all, local authorities. The halls in which refugees are located today, Dear Senators, are for one day, for a maximum of 2 days, for a maximum of 3 days, because most refugees are women with children, and women with children in sports halls, unfortunately, cannot stay long. So that this main work is done by volunteers, local government officials and Poles. I would like to use this example, maybe this will convince the senators of the option currently ruling in the country that it was the local governments that took on the main burden and the main responsibility, apart from the statistics that the voivode is doing, and praise him for being clear. I'll tell you what I'm gonna I'll give you a quote. And I will fit in my 10 minutes with a brief exchange of views between local government officials because I am in a group where presidents, mayors and mayors from all over Poland exchange information. Maybe you can convince the senators who are in the courtroom. Hour 16.11, Warsaw: Darlings, Mega request for help. As you know, it's difficult for us. We've got two buses full, with the kids. They're ready to leave at 5:00. Can anyone take just one bus? Write or call. 4:14 p.m., the question is: are these children with guardians or are they alone? Answer: "Children with moms." 4:15 p.m., Gdynia: 1 bus. Time 16.16: Who can I contact? Answer: Let Tom contact Bartek. Never mind. 4:24 p.m., Płock, president: Also ready to accept the kids. Answer: 'Warsaw thanks'. 4:24 p.m. This is what we do in both directions. In 13 minutes, yes, in 13 minutes, without voivodeship, without statistics, without this whole perimeter, 2 buses of children in 13 minutes were developed by local government officials. They're not in statistics that analyze the voivod. This is the normal operation every day from morning to late night. I do not question it, you mentioned the name of the voivode, which is also involved, I do not claim that it is not, but this main job is done by local government officials and Poles. I will also add what you said to Marshal Borusewicz: the government has such a duty, Poles do not. Poles do it with a good heart, with a sense of duty they do it. I don't know who took care of how many refugees. I can see in my territory, I can't exchange numbers, we work from morning to night, volunteers do it, people do it. These are dozens, dozens of apartments made available by people to whom mothers and children go. And it's all out of the voivodeship statistics, just so we're clear. ♪ 'Cause of us ♪ I'm sorry to say this. It is not necessary for volunteers and field workers to report to the voivodeship that a mother and a child are looking for a place for themselves. We just get a place like this for a mother and a child, put them there, get all the formalities, and help these people. We're not interested in statistics. Germany. The password often fell: Germany. The question was whether the Germans were doing a good job of helping Ukraine. Therefore, I would like to inform you all that we are working with Germany, apart from statistics. The goods are coming to us. The Germans organize themselves as Poles, locally. Humanitarian buses are loaded with materials that are used for personal hygiene, food, medicine. Some of the goods go to Ukraine, some of the goods stay with us to help the people who stayed with us. The Germans are engaged in helping, these ordinary Germans. I serve as an example. So it's not like that... But it is true that most Ukrainians who come to us, the vast majority of them prefer to stay in Poland. They're afraid of long trips. I've got contact. e.g. Saarbrücken, it's under the French border, but I know it's about 80-90% refugees from Ukraine prefer to stay with us, in my beloved New Salt, and only part, 20%, well, up to 30% decide to go to Germany, where the apartment is waiting, there is a social waiting, there is a care organized by local government. And now, ladies and gentlemen, this is a rather important topic. There's been a slogan that we've accepted so many Ukrainians. Well, we're proud of it, of course, but you have to remember. that it was a misfortune that happened in Ukraine... God forbid this war ends as soon as possible. It must be remembered that this influx of refugees, if the war ends, will have a very positive impact on the Polish economy. The Polish economy struggled with the lack of hands to work. Of course, I am in favour of the Ukrainians getting back together, because Ukraine also needs its people who have left the country, but some of these people will stay in Poland and strengthen the Polish economy that will develop. Now the self-government relationship of the government. Who's doing more? So I would like to say here how the local government works on the example of the Marshal's Office of Lubuskie Voivodeship. The plenary room is swamped with goods right now. That's where you give legal advice, that's where amazing things happen. I invite you if you would like to see how the assistance for the Ukrainians is implemented by the Lubuskie Voivodship. And to be clear: in the first days when this exodus of our friends from Ukraine began, the Marshal's Office of Lubuskie Voivodeship immediately made available the centre which belongs to the Marshal's office. Maybe it's known to you, it's a resort in Drzonkow, a center of modern five-horse. Nobody even wondered five minutes. This whole resort is filled with refugees, where the local government is carrying out its mission to help refugees. What percentage of government centers are full today? I didn't hear that. You told me to google it. Well, I didn't make it. All I know is that in my voivodship the centers that belong to the State Forests are empty, not settled by refugees. And it's not about coercion. I hope this bill will mobilize all those who can help refugees from Ukraine to carry such help. They don't have to do it for free, they don't have to do it for 40 PLN. After all, hotels or resorts accept refugees. Sometimes it's negotiated. As you know, there was 140 PLN for this. Some have negotiated 100 PLN, some have less, some have more. I don't know if we can make such an amendment. If necessary, government centers can also receive funding. Let them hold a refugee from Ukraine for 40 zlotys, let them put him to bed, let them feed him, just as citizens do. [[Timer signal]] And just so completely to the end... Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens who adopted the Ukrainians were not expecting any money for this. I don't want to talk about it again, but I helped a few hundred refugees from Ukraine. And no Pole who made his apartment available said a word about compensation for this apartment. These mechanisms, which have been introduced, will make the Poles open even more and even more refugees from Ukraine will find a roof over their heads... [[Timer signal]] [[Thank you, Senator.]] ...in private homes. [[Thank you.]] But it is the Poles and, above all, the local government who decide what aid for refugees looks like today.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u298	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. It's remote. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. These five minutes are enough. I wish there was a government representative. That information you just read, Senator Frost, it's probably coming from a government representative. It was possible to say directly at the Senate meeting what is the base of accommodation, how many places does the Polish Hotel Holding have and in which part it is occupied by refugees, and not to read the text from the mobile phone. It just shows how the government treats the Senate. I'm sad to say. And back to this information about 15 grand... This is information from the Attorney General. The Attorney General shall provide such information on the basis of what it has obtained from individual ministries. And if only we were to refer to the State Forests, 3.5 to 5 thousand beds; to the Polish Hotel Holding Probably also about 5 thousand beds; to the Interferia The next few thousand beds; the hotels that the Ministry of National Defence has at its disposal, the next thousands of beds or places that we sometimes don't know about. I mentioned the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management, but I can mention e.g. The Polish Waters, which in the budget for this year planned money for renovation of guest rooms in different places. No one would have thought that Polish Waters have guest rooms. Well, they do. There really are hundreds, if not thousands, of institutions that are governed by the government and which have a base of accommodation. This base today must be entirely dedicated to helping refugees. And there is nothing to hide from the debate if the government wanted a serious debate, it would be taking part in this discussion today. And like Senator Kwiatkowski said, we help the government, that's the opposite, that's the reach. It is a pity that, with regard to the approach to this matter directly, Minister Wąsik was jamming so much and he did not want to accept it as a Senate amendment, and now the government is trying to fix it quickly. And finally. Do you know what the involvement of the voivodship in West Pomerania looks like? Well, there's a plane landing with refugees. In this particular case, not direct but indirect refugees At the airport in Goleniów near Szczecin, they get on the bus and the voivode says e.g. Yes, the mayor in Białogard, I want you to take care of that 50. And she takes them in the hall where she can. And that's the end of the voivodeship's help. Similarly they go e.g. Darlov and the mayor of Darlov do the same in exactly the same way. No more voivodship involvement. But in this Darłów there is a military holiday home and a voivode could point to this place, to accommodate them there. Why doesn't he? Why doesn't he make that move? Why doesn't he send them to Kolobrzeg to government centers? Why doesn't he send them to other government holiday centers where only in West Pomerania there are more than 10,000 beds? Why is he sending them to local governments? I leave these questions to all of you to have a clear answer: without the joint action of the government and the local government, without a full record of these places, without the commitment and adoption of this law, this problem will not be solved. I'm really asking everyone without exception to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u300	Thank you, Senator. Senator Krzysztof Frost. But you've done it twice. [[I'd like to correct.]] Of course. There you go, you've got three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u301	Mr. Marshal, I would very much ask Senator Gawłowski not to insinuate what I have in my text, what I read, from whom, what government information. But if you want this information so badly about the Polish Hotel Holding, it is the public information, the information PAP-owska, provided on the website of the Business Insider.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u302	Thank you very much, Senator. I hope Senator Gawłowski will not correct Senator Mroz's statement. [[I gave the facts, I don't know what the facts can be straightened out.]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed... Where's the order? In other words, I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[Timer signal]] [[Time's up, Mr. Marshal.]] I know my time is up. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed... [[Voice from the room: Adam Szejnfeld.]] ...Senator Aleksander Szwed and Senator Adam Szejnfeld submitted their statements to the minutes, while Senator Jerzy Czerwiński tabled amendments, which is a legislative proposal in writing by Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that a legislative proposal has been submitted, the Senate is directing the bill to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. Senator Kwiatkowski has requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft law still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I can't hear the voices of opposition. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u303	High Senate! The meeting of the Health Committee on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Act on Medical Devices The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of applications submitted at the Thirty-nineth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and certain other laws • Senate printing No 660 • will take place tomorrow, 24 March at 8.15 am in room 182. Joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and of the Legislative Commission on the examination of applications submitted at the Thirty-nineth Senate meeting on the second reading of the draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine The senate prints No 668 and No 668 S will take place tomorrow at 8 a.m. in room No 217. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-23-senat-39-1.u304	Thank you very much for the announcement. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 19 minutes 57]]
