ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u1	Colleagues, new brooms sweep well, says a Flemish proverb. Let us try to make it a habit of starting our meetings promptly. First of all, I would like to say that, at the request of a number of fellow Members and in agreement with the Minister, I made a change to the agenda. In view of the tragic events, we would like to give the Minister the opportunity, at the first item on the agenda, to make a statement on the tragic plane crash in Ukraine. Since there is no plenary sitting, I suggest that we observe a minute's silence ourselves, not only for the victims of the aircraft accident, but also for the victims who are currently in the Middle East. May I ask you all to stand up and observe a minute's silence?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u2	Mr President, when yesterday we received the first information about the plane crash, we immediately contacted our partners in the Netherlands and decided to open a crisis centre with a telephone number, to collect all possible information and to communicate it to the relatives of the victims or to others close to the victims. It turned out to be very difficult to get the passenger list. We have tried with various services, even for a few hours, but it was almost impossible to get more clarification. At 20 o'clock I had my Dutch colleague Frans Timmermans on the phone, who was also waiting to communicate about the passenger list. At 20 o'clock he still thought there were about 50 Dutch on board. Later it turned out that there are more than 170 Dutch victims. I expressed my condolences to my Dutch colleague and then waited until midnight before I received more details about the presence of Belgian victims. Unfortunately, there are five Belgian victims, of whom 1 came from Namur, 1 from Wetteren, 2 from Brasschaat and 1 lived in Australia. Of course, we made immediate contact with all the families. You will understand that the first contacts aim first to inform families, to know their wishes. That is why I did not indicate the identities before all the while insisting that among the victims was a mixed Belgian-Dutch couple with a Belgian victim, a child about a dozen years old. Of course, we have conveyed our condolences to the families and relatives of the victims. We are continuing our checks: some 20 people have not yet been able to be clearly identified from the passenger lists. I do not say that there are other Belgian victims to be deplored, but we must wait until the checks are completed to be more precise in this respect. With regard to the actions to be taken, we note above all a support and approach for the families of the victims. We have already sent an IVD team to assist the Dutch authorities in the identification process. A Belgian team is already working in Schiphol. We also have many contacts in Ukraine. It is very difficult to treat things correctly on the spot. The place is very sensitive, because, as you know, it is a conflict zone, which makes it very difficult to protect it. Normally, the bodies of the victims need to be transferred to a city. Originally, the idea was to go to Donetsk, but now it's going to be Charkov. On-site identification of the victims may take place. We are prepared to provide assistance and assistance with the team that is now in Schiphol Airport and which, if necessary, may be able to travel to Ukraine. As far as the process under way is concerned, we will discuss with the Dutch airlines and authorities the possibilities of taking families to Ukraine if they so wish. Of course, there is no question of driving them into the crash zone because it is a zone of conflict, but in the places where the identification of the bodies will take place. In addition, there is a question of a ceremony that could take place in Kiev. As for the date of repatriation of the remains to Belgium, I have no information. It is currently not possible to clarify these elements. Repatriation will first have to begin. Moreover, the purpose of our contacts with the various European and even international colleagues is to exchange condolences, which sometimes gives rise to particular situations. For example, this morning my Australian colleague wanted to offer me Australia's condolences for the Belgian victims, while the number of Australian victims is five times higher. Unfortunately, this is a tragedy that affects many countries. One hundred and seventy victims, and perhaps even more once the last twenty names have been verified, that means a national disaster for the Netherlands. Unfortunately, there are also five Belgian victims. It was a commercial flight. However, we have many questions about the circumstances of this tragedy. You, like me, have heard and read a lot of experts, according to whom it might have been a rocket that crashed the plane. However, we have not yet confirmed this. What can we do to try to find out the exact origin of the drama? We need to gather the information that comes to us from our posts. Most experts agree that a missile attack would have struck the aircraft in full flight and would have shot it down at cruising altitudes of 10,000 metres, 36,000 feet if I am not mistaken. But we are waiting for confirmation through an investigation. As far as contacts are concerned, I met with my Australian colleague this morning. Australia currently sits on the Security Council as a non-permanent member and has taken the initiative to try to convince the Security Council to launch an independent international investigation, an initiative that we support. Contacts were made in Ukraine, Russia, with many partners to be able to conduct an independent on-site investigation, to verify whether a missile fire was carried out and, if so, by whom and why. Contacts were also made at the OSCE so that observers could be sent or used quickly enough to secure the area. On some radio stations this morning, journalists were heard explaining that they were walking on the scene of the disaster without any security. But this is a conflict zone that is not as easy to access as one might think. All the steps are taken to secure the place, to recover all the data possible, starting with the black boxes - a lot of rumors are circulating about them - and to conduct an international investigation. At the same time, this morning, I informed the small firm about the situation. At European level, we will have a Foreign Affairs Council next Tuesday on another subject, but I think that much of it will be devoted to the situation in Ukraine and in particular to the consequences of this air crash. Perhaps by Tuesday we will have more precise information on the first data that would indicate that the aircraft was shot down. But I insist, personally, that we must remain cautious. As long as these are external analyses and not the findings of an investigation, it is difficult to draw conclusions and certainly not political conclusions with regard to one or the other actor in the region. More information is needed on the subject before progress can be made on the subject. That is what it was possible to refer to; I would add a supplementary point. I asked yesterday evening that we check the instructions given to the airlines for Belgium and, if not yet, that we recommend that we avoid, if possible, the overflight of the region, and therefore the use of this air route. France has also done so. I think other countries will probably follow. I also hope that this will be a European initiative. The investigation will also verify exactly what the existing recommendations or prohibitions were and what the behaviour of the company or pilots was during the overflight of this area of Ukraine. This is not the first accident or crash related to the use of missiles. You know that a Ukrainian cargo plane was shot down a short time ago at an altitude of 6,000 meters, which already gives an indication. The shot was claimed. This is a situation which gives indications of the type of weapons used today on the spot. In the coming days, there will be a great deal of information exchange between different services to try to draw the first conclusions from the analyses that will be carried out at a distance, but the on-site analyses may make it possible to go further. Mr President, there are still a lot of points that could be raised, a lot of reflections on the subject. I wish to stick to elements of which we are certain. Unfortunately, the first certainty is that there are a very large number of victims. We have to deplore five Belgian victims, but you can also imagine the tragedy that this represents in many other countries, starting with our Dutch neighbours, who are particularly struck by this aerial tragedy. We will see in the coming days how we can continue to help not only the families of Belgian victims, but also how to support all the steps taken on the international scene to organise the identification of victims, the support of families, the setting up of an investigation. I forgot: it is obviously possible – it would be quite logical – for the Belgian judicial authorities to decide to open a separate investigation as well. Other countries may do so, too. Personally, for the time being, I am involved in supporting the organisation of an independent international investigation. But these are two different things. There is, of course, also a responsibility of the judicial authorities in Belgium, which can very well take an initiative. Mr President, I will conclude. It wasn't planned to give an update on an airplane crash. Last night, however, we immediately considered that there was a possibility that there could unfortunately be some Belgian victims on the flight from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur. The aircraft is operated by Malaysia Airlines, in cooperation with KLM and Air France. It was therefore almost logical that some Belgian passengers would be present on that plane. I heard from Australia that about a hundred people had to be present at an international meeting on AIDS. It was therefore very difficult for the Australian authorities to hear the news.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u3	I now give the floor to Mrs Dumery.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u4	Mr President, Minister, on behalf of my group, I would like to express my condolences to the families of the victims, including some compatriots, but also many Dutch people, with whom we have a special connection. It happened to us, like all of us, very deeply. Words are lacking, in order to express our sympathy. Minister, thank you very much for your explanation and certainly also for joining us in committee as soon as possible in order to give a state of affairs. What happened yesterday provoked a great deal of indignation, because especially the passengers and crew members of the flight NH17 in question had nothing to do with the conflict in Ukraine. They had nothing to do with it. The result is that we can speak of a loss of life that is completely pointless. I find it difficult to imagine how the victims' families are going to deal with the news. I sympathise with them personally. There is also indignation about being able to travel safely in the world, which is, however, a precious asset. A great deal of money is being invested to ensure our safety in the air so that we do not have to fear attacks when we take a plane. We give up a great deal of our freedom to enjoy such security. Today we all assume that when we fly we fly safely. The unfortunate incident actually proves the opposite and also proves that we should not regard it as a manifestation. However, I am particularly outraged by the lack of political courage of those responsible for the disaster. The coverage is really hallucinating: one camp accuses the other. In fact, it does not seem too bad to put all kinds of evidence forward. The sad thing about that is that the next of kin who have a lot of questions become a toy in a propaganda war. Conflicting information deprives them of crucial answers. The culprits must be tracked down and prosecuted. That's why we need an investigation. You have already referred to this, Minister. I have some immediate questions, Minister. Maybe you can answer that. Can there actually be an independent investigation if Western journalists testify that they can just walk around on the site? If they want to be evil, they could just take evidence with them. The Ukrainian Prime Minister states that there will be an investigation, although it is an area he has very little to say about as it is under the control of the rebels. Meanwhile, the rebels claim to have a black box in their hands. President Putin states that he wants to receive the black box because it would actually be an attack on his person. He asks that the black box in Moscow be analyzed. I have a strange feeling about this and I wonder whether we can expect an independent investigation to be carried out. You have also spoken about your contacts with various political leaders, Minister. Who have you been in contact with over the last few hours and what is your assessment of the situation based on these contacts? Have you had any contact with NATO? Will there be a meeting in the North Atlantic Council on this matter? With regard to the Netherlands, what information flows are being set up and what contacts have you had with our Dutch neighbours? Finally, I am particularly concerned about the consequences of the drama on the conflict. Will it increase tensions between the East and the West? Will the drama lead to a global military escalation or will it rather lead, as some have described it, to a game changer in the dramatic events and provide a turning point in a compelling conflict? I would like to know your assessment, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u5	Mr President, the words of drama and indignation in this disaster are rightly taken up. It is primarily up to us to express our condolences to the relatives and the family and to do everything in our power to ensure that those people are accompanied and informed of what has happened to their relatives there. It's a region in crisis. What has happened now gives the whole conflict a different dimension. As the Minister says, international independent research is the most appropriate way to reach good political conclusions on this issue. We can also be of service to the Netherlands, our neighbour, which is the most affected. Therefore, care must be taken for the next of kin and the family in a good way. As the Minister said, the political conclusions will have to be made as soon as possible with regard to the international independent investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u6	Minister, our group also thanks you for sharing accurate information with Parliament so quickly. It is, of course, a dramatic event, with potentially far-reaching consequences. On behalf of Ecolo-Groen, I would like to express my condolences to the families affected. We ask you and your colleagues to take care of them in the best possible circumstances. There is little to add to what you have said. There's still a lot of uncertainty. You're still talking about an accident. There is no certainty yet that this would be anything other than an accident. We must be able to distinguish as quickly as possible between the rumours that are now circulating and the facts. I think it is necessary and right that airspace should be closed above the conflict zone. I think it is good that more and more countries are taking that step. We can ask ourselves whether this could not have happened earlier and whether general directives could be introduced on how to deal with air traffic in conflict zones within Europe. After all, this is a European problem. I have also read that Angela Merkel is already speaking stronger language and is calling for new European sanctions. Maybe next Tuesday will also be on the agenda of the European Council of Foreign Ministers. However, I understand from your introduction that you do not want to make a statement immediately or are not in favour of it immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u7	I give the floor to Mr Hellings, but we have to decide whether Ecolo-Green is now a single group or two groups, since Mr De Vriendt said he was speaking on behalf of Ecolo-Green. (...): It has already been decided by the Conferences of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u8	Mr President, I join the condolences expressed by the Minister and my colleague De Vriendt. Minister, have any contacts been made with your colleague Lavrov? Knowing that the international investigation that began will depend on the goodwill of all the parties involved, it would be a way to test the good will of the Russian government in this unfortunate affair, but also in the even more serious case that is the Ukrainian conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u9	Mr President, we have new indications as to the potential victims, but we will verify that. I understand the different questions. As regards the contacts and possible actions from Belgium, we first contacted all possible services to collect information after the announcement yesterday. This information was primarily related to the potential Belgian victims. That is our first responsibility. It is normal for us to do so, and that is why we have set up a crisis centre very quickly. That crisis centre is there not only to give answers to the many people who want to ask questions but also to collect information. It is a very useful tool to do so. We have many questions and comments about Belgian passengers on board. So that was my first reaction. My first contact with a colleague was in the Netherlands. I asked Frans Timmermans to get on the phone to ask who the possible victims were. I repeat that even my Dutch colleague had no real information about this at 8 p.m. last night. He waited for a list and said that maybe 50 Dutch people were involved. You know now that there are many more. So that was the first piste. The first contact at international level was with the Netherlands. My services and the head of the cabinet have tried to contact embassies and all possible services to collect information. That's a first case. In the coming weeks, perhaps the question will arise as to how it is possible, not only in the Netherlands but also in Belgium, that so much time is needed to give this information. After all, that list exists. How is it possible to wait so many hours just to get the list of victims confirmed? That's true now. I have heard a lot of things and I will not go into the protection of privacy among others, but in the event of a plane crash this must be done faster. That is a first point. We are trying to go further in this respect. A second contact is related to a possible investigation. I understand the question of whether it is not useful to go faster, with protection on the field. I'm sure that's useful, but what can we do? Yesterday we started many contacts and this morning I already had contact with my colleague from Australia. Why? Australia is a member of the United Nations Security Council. I was asked if there had been any contact with Mr. Lavrov. The Australians made contact with him. You heard like me that President Obama called President Putin. Nevertheless, I always try to stay within the limits of what we can do. We are making contact with the ambassadors, but I confess that I have not called President Putin; others have done so, including representatives of European countries. With regard to the UN Security Council, the request was made clearly to accept an independent international investigation. We support the Australian approach, but we do not sit on the Security Council. The instructions were given to our Permanent Representation in New York to move in this direction. These are the main political contacts. I had contact with the Netherlands, which makes sense in such a case. Today I also had contact with Australia, via the embassy, the various services and the different partners. We are continuing this in two directions, namely helping the victims' families and the partners to identify and find out the facts. It should be possible to conduct an internationally independent investigation in order to find out the precise facts. I know that Russia and perhaps other actors are making a lot of efforts to obtain data. We will try to have an independent investigation conducted. Possible sanctions or discussions on Ukraine are foreseen. Some conclusions have already been drawn in the European Council on Ukraine, with a strengthening of sanctions. Those sanctions have so far been individual. There's a new list of names. It was possible to go further with individual sanctions against Russia. On Tuesday, the Council of Foreign Ministers will meet, which is now being prepared. It advocates moving forward and putting more pressure on the various actors, perhaps with new sanctions against Russia. I'll wait until Tuesday for more information on the possible facts. I hear many comments and analyses from many experts, but we are asking for facts. It is certainly possible for us to move on. I have even heard that such a plane crash, unfortunately, is found useful to get any action from the international community. So that's not true. We have been working on the crisis in Ukraine for months, but unfortunately so far we have not been able to reach a cease-fire and start negotiations. I do not want to compare it with another region of Gaza and the Middle East, but the decision to achieve a ceasefire and real negotiations has not yet been reached. Unfortunately, this is not yet the case in Ukraine. I suspect there will be more pressure from many countries after this plane crash. I also heard it was an accident. I do not want to say too much about this today, but I fear it is more than an accident. I have many indications that this is a real missile attack against the plane, but I do not have any official confirmation after examination. However, many indications point in that direction. That's all I can say. I can't jump to conclusions. However, this will be an important element in our reasoning about Ukraine, which we will develop on Tuesday. I can tell you that much preparatory work is being done, for example, to increase or strengthen the sanction. Until now, nothing has been decided on this, but on Tuesday it may be. Again, first and foremost, attention should be paid to the victims and their families. We must then base ourselves on facts and these facts must be confirmed. We must not fall back on statements from one side or the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u10	Thank you, Minister. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we move on to the second item on the agenda, for which we originally called this sitting. I would like to give the floor to the Minister for an introductory statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u11	Mr President, before we discuss the current situation in Gaza, I would like to mention a number of contexts and elements concerning the situation in the Middle East and the state of relations between Palestinians and Israel. Then I will listen with great attention to the statements made by the various political groups, particularly in preparation for the Foreign Affairs Council next Tuesday. Since the failure of the American peace negotiations at the end of April, the political and security situation in the region has only deteriorated. On 12 June, the situation developed dramatically with the kidnapping of three young Israeli students in the West Bank, close to Hebron. For three weeks, large-scale searches were carried out throughout the West Bank. This incident has come to a dramatic end as the three students were found dead. The Israeli Government has accused Hamas of being responsible for this kidnapping, which Hamas has denied. To date, no tangible evidence of the responsibility of this organisation's summit could be provided, despite very serious suspicions that several members of the international community consider reliable. Hundreds of Palestinians were arrested, especially members of Hamas who were released in autumn 2011 in exchange for the release of Gilad Shalit. For many Palestinians, Israel's reaction was disproportionate and punishing towards Hamas. Nevertheless, the timing of this abduction came at a very bad time, only ten days after the announcement of a national consensus government, born of the complex intra-Palestinian reconciliation, and rejected by Israel. The day after the funeral of the three young Israeli students, a 17-year-old Palestinian was kidnapped and burned alive by extremist Jews, which only increased tension in the West Bank. In addition to the demand for justice, I condemned these killings and called for calm and restraint and the resumption of negotiations between the parties. President Abbas' clear and measured reactions can be welcomed: condemnation of kidnapping and cooperation by the security services. On the Israeli side, we can welcome the immediate arrest of the perpetrators of the murder of the Palestinian youth and the unequivocal reactions on the part of the government, but it is clear that these serious incidents have exacerbated tensions on both sides and reinforced the most extremist wings. As a protest against the massive arrests and the closure of Gaza, the armed movements, including Hamas, resumed their rocket fire, which the Israeli army responded to by launching its Operation "Protective Border". The Israeli army then massed 40,000 reservists on the border, ready to respond to rocket fire by intensive aerial bombardments as well. As you know, the army has been working on this for some time now. The conflict has been the most deadly since the November 2012 "Defence Pillar" offensive. The President of the Palestinian Authority has maintained his security cooperation with Israel. Its popularity is falling free not only among the Palestinian population but also within its government. The Palestinian Authority and Hamas are being cut to pieces, which does not mean that the national consensus government, which the European Union supports, will continue to respect the criteria of the Quartet: non-violence, respect for previous agreements and Israel's right to exist. Mahmoud Abbas, who recently reiterated his priority commitment to peace and normalization of relations with Israel in the context of a two-State solution, however, also addressed a letter to the Secretary-General of the United Nations calling for Palestine to be placed under a United Nations system of international protection. President Abbas means a kind of UN trusteeship that would be a form of guarantee by the international community of the future implementation of the two-State solution, somewhat comparable to what has been done in Kosovo or Timor-Leste. If no solution was found, other measures could also be considered by the Palestinians, such as a Security Council resolution, a special session of the Human Rights Council already scheduled in principle next week or new applications for membership of international organizations. As before, I continue to plead to avoid any unilateral action that could further undermine confidence, if any, between the parties. I understand the frustration and even anger at the impotence of the international community to stop this violence, which has already claimed too many victims, especially among civilians, and which is aggravating the humanitarian situation of the population in Gaza. However, I would like to point out that diplomacy has not remained silent and inactive. In addition to all the statements, including my own, many contacts have taken place in an attempt to reverse the trend and put an end to the violence. I supported all these initiatives and I admit that I had hoped for a more active role for the European Union. The central role of High Representative Catherine Ashton in the negotiations with Iran in Vienna may explain this lack of visibility. However, action has been taken beyond telephone contacts at the highest level, as well as informal contacts. The European Council also adopted a declaration on Wednesday evening. The issue is on the agenda of the Foreign Affairs Council next Tuesday, with the adoption of substantial conclusions – normally – including on the peace process. Among all these initiatives, the Egyptian proposal for a ceasefire is the most promising. Unfortunately, the ceasefire proposed by Egypt on 14 July 2014 was only short-lived. It provided for a complete cessation of all air, maritime and rural hostilities from 15 July 2014 at 8 a.m. Egypt also proposed to receive two high-level Israeli and Palestinian delegations within 48 hours to open discussions. While the Israeli security cabinet accepted this proposal, a spokesperson from Hamas' military branch stated that Hamas refused any ceasefire that did not include a full agreement on the conflict, namely the cessation of Israeli bombings, the end of Gaza's blockade, which took place since 2006, the opening of the Rafah border post with Egypt and the liberation of all prisoners who were re-arrested after they were first released in exchange for the release of Gilad Shalit. It is deeply regrettable that Hamas refused this offer and fired missiles at Israel again, which led the Israelis to resume their operations in Gaza. I have called on everyone to accept the Egyptian offer of a cease-fire without delay and without conditions. To this end, I called for the exit of the crisis on the one hand and for the protection of the civilian population of both Gaza and Israel on the other. I very much hope that reasonableness will eventually prevail. On Tuesday afternoon, bombardments and rocket fire resumed more beautiful. A humanitarian break was declared yesterday at the request of the United Nations for five hours. Three mortars, however, targeted Israel during this humanitarian truce. From the end of this truce, rocket fire resumed massively, followed by new strikes by the Israeli army. The Israeli government finally decided last night to launch a ground operation in Gaza with the main objective of "destroying tunnels used for terrorist activities in Israel". The decision was approved by the security cabinet after Hamas refused to accept the Egyptian plan for a ceasefire and after the continued rocket fire on Israel. Even yesterday, the Israeli army had failed an attempt to infiltrate its territory by a commando of 13 Palestinians who were trying, by means of a Hamas-built tunnel, to enter Israel. I expressed my concern about this ground operation and, above all, deplored the escalation of tension on the ground. I, like others in Europe and the High Representative of the European Union, insist on Israel's right to defend itself, but I call for maximum restraint and protection of civilians. Our first concern must be that of peace and certainly that of the protection of civilians, given the number of children affected today by this conflict. I hope that this operation will be limited and short-lived. In less than two weeks of conflict, the Israeli army carried out more than 2,000 air raids in response to the more than 1,500 more sophisticated and long-range rocket fire than in the past. This situation has not failed to create strong tensions within the Israeli government. This week, the Prime Minister dismissed the Deputy Minister of Defence for calling the Israeli military intervention a failure. The Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Economy would like a stronger response from Israel, including by regaining control of the Gaza Strip. After ten days of conflict, the balance is heavy. The number of Palestinian casualties exceeded 250, mainly civilians, and more than 1,700 were injured. On the Israeli side, this amounts to a civilian victim and a military victim killed yesterday in the ground operation. The efficiency of the Iron Dome is fortunate to limit the victims in Israel. But I'm afraid the balance sheet will increase with the current offensive. According to UNRWA, over 21,000 refugees were displaced in schools or makeshift shelters. Approximately 900,000 people, or nearly half of Gaza's population, are said to be affected by the damage to water and electricity distribution systems and sewage systems. More than 1,300 homes were completely or partially destroyed and another 14,500 damaged, as well as 81 schools, 8 health centres, 8 ministerial buildings and 67 mosques. As always in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, emotion is great and true objectivity is difficult to maintain. Various prisms often distort reality and do not sufficiently highlight each other's responsibilities. I would like to remind you, like any sovereign State, that Israel has the right and the duty to protect its people. It is unacceptable that civilians should be targeted at hundreds of indiscriminate rockets. The response must be proportionate and maximum restraint must be exercised in order to avoid civilian casualties. I have made these appeals to the Israeli government on several occasions. Respect for international law, including humanitarian law, is a responsibility of all actors involved. This must be the case with Israel, but also with Hamas and other terrorist organizations. However, civilians are regularly used as human shields to protect military targets. Bunkers are also being built for Hamas' leadership under hospitals and UNRWA yesterday denounced the use of schools for the storage of rockets. This is unacceptable because it is contrary to the law of customary war, to which all actors are bound. The people of Gaza are suffering from the Israeli blockade in force, which the European Union is calling for to be lifted. Unfortunately, the lack of cooperation has not made it possible to make progress in reassuring Israel's security. The events of the last few weeks have proved this to us, including the speeches of some leaders. The arsenal is increasingly sophisticated and I recalled the number of shots fired. On the Israeli side, the restrictions in force are hurting the population, especially since Egypt, which has a border with Gaza, is pursuing a more restrictive policy that has led to the neutralization of most smuggling tunnels. The population suffers from the blockade carried out on both sides. I fully understand the demonstrations in favour of the Palestinian people. They are quite laudable. I believe that we are all in favour of establishing a State of Palestine that can live in peace and security alongside Israel. Yesterday I received representatives of various organisations who had demonstrated before the Department of Foreign Affairs on Wednesday. I think I can say that we have had very constructive exchanges. In general, the cause must be in favour of peace and the Palestinians, but not against the Israelis. As can be seen here, the primary responsibility for the escalation of violence lies in the intransigence of a number of leaders on both sides. They must be blamed for the escalation of violence and the suffering of the people in Gaza. It is necessary – what I am trying to do – to avoid a systematic bias on either side. For my part, I try to support one side, that of peace. I would like to say that some overflows cannot be accepted, as was the case in Antwerp this week when anti-Semitic calls were made. I am against any import of the conflict into our country. I would point out that this was not the case at the Wednesday demonstration in front of the Department of Foreign Affairs. This event took place in a calm manner and without such a call being made. We are trying to pursue a balanced policy on a complex and highly sensitive issue. To be credible to both sides, one must be able to have an objective discourse and know how to convey the necessary messages, positive or negative, depending on the developments. That is how I supported the announcement of the Palestinian government of national agreement and responded to every new announcement of the establishment of an Israeli colony. This is the policy that I intend to pursue, including in the context of the current crisis, with the support of Parliament. We have also taken initiatives to try to change the European approach to the economic situation. It is in this context that we published, at the beginning of July, the nineteen guidelines for products and investments in the occupied territories. I have also asked on several occasions for a Benelux initiative to be taken on the labelling of products from the occupied territories. I forwarded my agreement to the Ministry of Economy. I understand that his responsible minister shares my view on the matter, but we have not yet reached an agreement in the Benelux on it. However, we are trying to convince our colleagues in Benelux, and in particular those in the Netherlands, to choose this path. The priority is a cease-fire. All efforts must be made to make this priority feasible as soon as possible. However, it is clear that the follow-up needs to be considered. After all, the current situation is unsustainable and a return to a status quo is not a sustainable solution. The international community and the EU in particular have a role to play. That is what we will be discussing at the next Council of Foreign Ministers on Tuesday. On the Palestinian side, we must continue to work on reconciliation, because it is almost impossible to negotiate a final peace treaty with a party that does not control its entire territory. The establishment of a national consensus government was a good first step, but it is necessary that that government and the Palestinian Authority exercise control over the entire territory of a future Palestinian State, including Gaza. Hamas' popularity, which was greatly weakened, including by the loss of Egypt's support, has risen again as a result of the current crisis. The most worrying is the difficult situation of President Abbas, who is increasingly criticized internally, both by the population and by the base and the Fatah summit. In the medium and long term, the solution can only be achieved by reviving the peace process. I hope that the European Union, in tandem with the Americans, can take an initiative on this matter. I am going to plead this at the Foreign Affairs Council on 22 July. Finally, there is no point in reminding you of my initiative as an economic conference to attract investment in the future Palestinian State, which has had to be postponed several times because of the lack of a peace process, which was evolving in a way that was not so favourable. The offer remains valid and can be launched once there are new political prospects. Unfortunately, we are far from it now. Earlier last year, we accepted the American request to give a chance to the laudable initiatives of Secretary of State John Kerry. Today, in my view, Europe must return to the path of initiatives in the region in collaboration with the US authorities, but with a comprehensive offer: an immediate ceasefire, an ability to represent itself at a negotiating table and economic support for partnerships that Europe must offer in order to convince us of a return to negotiations. Mr President, I regret that today we have to deal with two subjects which have caused so many victims in a very short time. By establishing at least one parallelism between the Ukrainian crisis, not to mention the air crash, and the current situation in Gaza, we realize that everything must be done to get a ceasefire first. It is essential to stop this accumulation of victims, especially civilian victims, but this will not suffice without putting the various actors around a table for political negotiations and without providing sufficient economic support to be credible to the people, both in Ukraine and in Gaza – the latter cannot have a perspective without massive economic support.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u12	I now give my fellow Members the opportunity to speak in order of the size of the political groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed the second item on today's agenda that concerns a very sad situation. Minister, I hope that the committee will be able to discuss other issues with you or with the next Foreign Minister in future. You have given a broad overview of the situation, sometimes somewhat unsophisticated in my opinion. The coverage of the conflict changes proverbically per minute. Both parties sometimes dare to propagate their own truth. It seems particularly difficult, for example, to clarify on the Palestinian side who we are talking about. In addition to Hamas, there are a number of Palestinian groups that are active, extreme militias that actually challenge Hamas' authority. I think it would be wiser to be somewhat reluctant at the moment about who is the right one and who is not. I thought your story at that point was a little awkward. Perhaps you could clarify that in the question. Meanwhile, violence escalates. What we didn't expect happened last night. The main offensive has been waged by Israel. I fear that there will be more civilian casualties than has been the case so far. One thing we have to say is that this is already the third conflict in almost six years. Moreover, this conflict is overshadowed by the cruel civil war in Syria and the advance of ISIS in Iraq and Syria. It would almost make us hopeless, especially when it is found that a lean ceasefire attempt has actually failed after six hours. We still believe that a solution should be sought in negotiations where a two-state solution should be sought in the longer term. You referred to that as well. There must be recognition of the Palestinian State in the end, but the right of existence of the State of Israel must also be clearly recognised. Hamas is also fighting the latter. Minister, I have three questions. Perhaps I have not heard it in your wider speech, but I am asking the question of the role of the UN Security Council. They have a resolution calling for a ceasefire. Have you heard about other United Nations initiatives at the moment? It could be seen as international pressure on the conflict. However, I hear from your speech that you see more salvation from Europe. How do you see this pressure from Europe? There would be a joint initiative, but how will that be organised? My third question is looking at your response to the basic offensive. Mrs Merkel has stated that Israel has the right to defend itself. I find that in your speech, too, or did I misunderstand it? Have you reacted so unsophisticatedly? You frame it by saying that there should be no civilian casualties. However, I would like to hear your response to the right of defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u14	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for years, and you have reminded us, Mr Minister, that we are witnessing the ghettoization of Gaza. The people of the Gaza Strip are condemned to survival, a way of life that is synonymous with despair, humanitarian insecurity and even death. Over the past ten days, this already dramatic and unacceptable situation has been compounded by intensive bombardments over rocket fire. Since yesterday, we must deplore Israel's ground offensive in the Gaza Strip, which, in our view, is a real provocation. This escalation of violence inexorably undermines any hope for peace and results in death in blood, you have reminded dozens of people, one in three victims being a woman or a child. The death on Wednesday of four children killed by an Israeli missile while playing football on a beach is a sad illustration. Once again, despite too timid calls for a ceasefire, international diplomacy shows its limits while the war auction between the two sides feeds extremists, resentment and desolation of the people. Every civilian's death is one too many, you have reminded him, no matter what his membership is. Of course, my group most strongly condemns any use of violence. As we know, there is no military solution to this conflict. How, in fact, can we imagine securing such a situation in the long term by means of weapons? How could we turn a blind eye to such violations of international law - as you have reminded us, Minister? How do you dare to legitimize an internationally disproportionate use of force, as the Israeli Prime Minister is trying to do today? For the PS, the Israeli people and the Palestinian people both have the right to live in the peace and security of two democratic and independent states with mutually accepted borders. However, today is the time, and you have reminded us, for urgency and, above all, multilateralism, not for procrastination. My group thus urges the European Union and the international community to exert the necessary pressure to bring Israel and Hamas to an end to the violence and to establish as soon as possible a ceasefire as a basis for negotiations. The conclusions of the European Council are an important step in this direction. However, additional initiatives still need to be taken, in particular by the European Union, which has its full role to play in the search for a long-term peaceful solution, and which should therefore, as you have said, take over a little bit. In order to do this, we call on Belgian diplomacy to shoulder its responsibilities also by demonstrating, as we have done in the past, courage, pragmatism and above all determination to find a solution where Israelis and Palestinians will be on an equal footing. Therefore, Minister, my questions are as follows. Despite the Security Council's vote on a resolution calling for a ceasefire, this option still seems not to be considered by any of the parties, but on the contrary. What other diplomatic avenues are envisaged both at European level and by the international community? How are talks organized with other States in the region, such as Turkey or Egypt, following the Hammas' refusal of Egypt's proposed ceasefire? What role is there for the Quartet? What initiatives both in the emergency and in the longer term does Belgium intend to take to meet humanitarian needs? The situation in the camps is now deplorable. What initiatives do you intend to take at the European Foreign Affairs Council? Another tragedy hit Europe last night, but this occult drama should not be the subject of all the other debates at the European Council next Tuesday. If you don't see yourself, I think you have two urgent things to deal with, and I hope they will be dealt with on the same footing. Both deserve urgent consideration at European level. In the face of what appears to be an up to the point, how could our country and the European Union re-evaluate their strategy towards this region in the context of the peace talks and our bilateral exchanges? You have already indicated that you will continue to work in an economic relationship with Palestine.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u15	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much for your concrete and comprehensive presentation. It allows for a good understanding of the situation and the current issues. In order not to repeat my colleagues' questions, I have noted in your presentation an element. You regretted Europe's action, considering it insufficient. In concrete terms, what could it have done to weigh more? My second question concerns the situation of Belgians in Israel and the region. Are special measures taken for our citizens? Finally, you saw that in Paris, a pro-Palestinian demonstration was banned. Do you have any information on the attitude that the mayors want to adopt? Have any additional measures been taken in our country regarding this type of event?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for the good analysis with many nuances and with the right emphasis. Our group also believes that a ceasefire is the first priority; violence must be stopped by both sides. Every innocent victim is one too many, and that can only be avoided with a cease-fire. Just as urgent is the humanitarian assistance to the needy Palestinian people in the Gaza Strip. More fundamentally, this crisis requires addressing the underlying causes. They lie as much in the fundamental and categorical rejection of Israel's right to exist as in the illegal occupation of large parts of the West Bank and of East Jerusalem. We must, together with the EU and the UN, condemn both. A one-sided approach is not in the interests of tackling the current crisis, on the contrary. We regret that Hamas has rejected the Egyptian mediation proposal and does not wish to end an escalation of which the Palestinians themselves, in particular, are the victims. We also regret Hamas' military action and missile attacks from densely populated residential areas, exposing ordinary Palestinian citizens excessively to hostilities. We can only underline what the federal government says about this and share its position on it. Firstly, we deplore the civilian casualties suffered in recent days as a result of the rocket launches against Israel and the Israeli army's reaction to them. We recognise Israel's right to protect its people from terrorist acts. We call for the cessation of hostilities and, if this is not possible, for military operations to be carried out proportionally and with the greatest possible restraint, in order to save civilian lives in any case. We speak out against everything that hypothesized the peace process. As difficult as this process may be and as hopeless as it may be, in the long term there is no other option. We too do not give up the two-state solution; it is the only direction that must and can be followed. We hope that the offensive will be limited and short-lived. Hamas' refusal to accept a cease-fire and the resumption of missile fire following yesterday's humanitarian cease-fire have shown that the terrorist organisation did not intend to end the violence against Israel.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u17	You rightly reiterated the appeal to all parties to de-escalate and to proceed to an immediate ceasefire and supported the Egyptian efforts in this regard. My group also stresses that we are in favour of a consistent European approach. In our view, that is the only good way forward. The EU has its own active and ambitious role to play in relation to the peace process. This also means, however, that our country will have to continue to invest in and maintain European action without bilateral initiatives that do not fit in with what is agreed at European level. In this sense, we do not go along with Mr van Groen and Mr Ecolo's story for a boycott, because we believe that this is not the way we should follow. Once again, a Belgian policy towards the Middle East peace process must be implemented at European level, given its efficiency and impact. Today, however, there is no basis in Europe for boycotting or sanctions against Israel. If we want major progress to be made in the peace process, then we must commit ourselves to political dialogue. Sustainable peace can only be possible on the basis of a strong commitment from both Israel and the Palestinians. The EU must be able to play an effective role as mediator in both sides. We believe that boycotting or sanctions undermine such an EU role. In any case, we support the call for a firm end to violence and provocation on both sides as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u18	Madam President, Minister, in four points I will give you the position of my group. Firstly, Mr President, and I believe that I am in line with what the Minister said in his introduction, and also some of my fellow Members, that this conflict is going from evil to worse and is becoming extremely dangerous. We are very concerned about what is happening in the Middle East. If we look over the last five years, we can see that this very wide region, after what we called the Arab Spring at the beginning and perhaps now called the Arab Winter, has become a very unstable broad region. Within this already unstable region, there is a series of super-dangerous situations in a number of countries: Syria, Iraq, several times in Lebanon and Jordan is being shaken. There's a fire going on in that region. That is a neighbouring region of ours and its impact on Belgium and Europe will be immense. I support your call that Europe should be much more concerned with this, and let me say straight away that we must stop walking behind the United States like a lapdog and think that the slopes proposed by them to solve this problem will work. I'll come back to that later. In this regional fireplace we are now faced with the third armed collision in five years, a clash between the world's fourth strongest army, Israel, and one of the poorest populations in one of the most overcrowded regions, Gaza. There's an armed conflict going on. That's disturbing. What I am also concerned about, and I believe that you have alluded to it in your introduction, is that the relationship between the Arab population and Israel has deteriorated incredibly. They're killing kids on both sides now. When one sees what hate messages are now being spread within Israel, it is there exploding. I hope I am not being too pessimistic, but perhaps it is even impossible for those two peoples to live together. After all, there is a radicalisation on the Palestinian side. Hamas is threatened by jihadist groups. There is also a radicalisation on the Israeli side. Our Western press didn't make it. What Minister Natali Bennett, one of the pillars of the Netanyahu government, has said, is bordering on the unbelievable. I'm translating it freely. He said, "The world is crying for some Arabs to be killed." What's the problem? I've killed a lot of them myself. That comes from the mouth of a minister, member of the Israeli Government. So we have already wasted a lot of time, I hope not too much time. That problem may well take on insoluble forms. It's time we changed the rifle shoulder. I will say straight forward, in very few diplomatic terms, what bothers me: the hypocrisy that is playing on the Western side of that file. I will not elaborate on the origin of that conflict. The Minister referred to the kidnapping and murder of three Israeli children. That is a tragedy, but allow me to say quite freely that there is not the cause of the problem. At the heart of the problem, to which we must return, is the continuing illegal occupation of the hull state of Palestine. In 1947, the United Nations allocated part of that territory to Palestine, which is still illegally occupied more than 60 years later. The discussions in the negotiations on a two-state solution deal with barely a fraction of what was assigned to the Palestinian people in 1947. So I call on you to go back to the core and stop pretending that we will come to a solution with this so-called equidistance. After all, there is no equality between the two parties. Anyone who looks back with some historical awareness and wonders who has actually won since the 60 years that this conflict has dragged on sees that the piece of our globe that has been allocated to Israel has increased enormously in those 60 years. Look at the number of settlements that have been the beginning of the peace process since 1993, in which people are still trying to live. 500 000 Israelis have been added to settlements on Palestinian territory, or at least the group remaining beyond what was allocated to the Palestinians in 1947. Mr Minister, I have noted that some of my fellow Members have read your press release correctly. 'Cause I've heard whole passages. I am sorry, Minister, but I want to talk about the hypocrisy of the West. There's no equity. The West is right to condemn the missile attacks, and I also condemn them. They are contrary to international law. Resistance groups are also supposed to comply with international war law and are thus not allowed to target civilian targets. So these rocket attacks are illegal and must be rejected. However, when it comes to victims on the Palestinian side, the victims are lamented. I do not hear a word about the fact that the Israeli air strikes are also illegal. That word doesn't come from the pen of the West. Mr. Secretary, I was very pleasantly surprised yesterday. A colleague of yours, in a double sense, namely Deputy Prime Minister of Great Britain and member of the European Liberal family, Nick Clegg, said yesterday that the air attacks on Gaza are deliberately disproportionate and that they amount to a collective punishment of the Palestinian people. When I look at your texts, you come no further than I call on Israel for some restraint. Your colleague Nick Clegg condemns and says that the air strikes are neither restrained nor proportionate. They're disproportionate. We continue to maintain this hypocrisy, and we do not dare to say to Israel that Israel must also respect international law. If that country is violating international law, then we must dare to look at all our economic, political and other relations we have with that country and dare to consider talking about sanctions and reactions to unacceptable behaviour. I'm finishing up, Minister. I expect a more courageous attitude from you and from our government at the Council on 22 July: say what it is about, say what it is about. I expect you to advocate an approach that goes to the heart of the problem. At the heart of the problem is the illegal occupation, the expansion of settlements and the blockade of Gaza. Finally, I would also like to call for some coherence in the action of our foreign policy. You just spoke about parallelism between Ukraine and the current situation in Gaza. I agree with you. There's a parallelism. Speaking of the last element, I don't know who took the plane down. It may be an accident, it may be Ukraine's fault, but most likely one of the resistance groups in Eastern Ukraine has brought it down, perhaps with Russia's involvement. If that is the case, it is a violation of international law. Let us assume for a moment that it would be Russia and Russia has delivered the missiles, then Russia is complicit in the use of military weapons against civilian targets. That includes sanctions. If that same violation of international law is committed by Israel and if Nick Clegg believes that there is a disproportionate reaction, then I ask, Minister, that there should be no exclusion from sanctions against Hamas and the Palestinian Authority as well as against Israel. As long as that step is not taken, there will be no solution to the conflict. Why should Israel stand down when it finds that it has been the party that has won the most in the development of the situation for the last 60 years? Of a small area, the Israelis already have the largest, the most interesting and the most liveable part. What remains for the Palestinian people is a hull state whose viability can be questioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u19	Madam President, Minister, first of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, Dirk Van der Maelen, for wanting to convene the committee on the issue, including at the request of the Ecolo-Green Group. After all, there is a certain urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u20	It is therefore necessary that we should all be able to discuss what Belgium and I stress Belgium can do. We were just talking about Ukraine. Now we're talking about Gaza. The evidence of peace at the borders of Europe is clearly being questioned and tested. In our opinion, we need cold-blooded but also committed politicians. The first point we want to make is that the current crisis in Gaza cannot be separated from the wider Israeli-Palestinian conflict. I'd like to put the case on the line right away. We are convinced that our country can do much more than it has done so far. Minister, I have read your statements in your press releases. You also stated here during your introduction that you were concerned. You are concerned about the situation. You regret the attacks. You're making calls. You have just also used the word 'unacceptable'. You have also mentioned that you support only one camp, the camp of peace. Mr Minister, allow me to use the following words. Your statements illustrate the ease with which European countries deal with the conflict in question. After all, I am of the opinion that such appeal policy is not working. I have reminded you that we have a link between the Gaza crisis and the wider Israeli-Palestinian conflict. It's not the first time you've shown an outrage. Together with your fellow Members, you are permanently outraged by everything that has been going on for years in a row. You note, however, that the facts on the ground do not change anything, but that radicalism is on the contrary increasing. We must therefore consider speeding up the process of diplomacy, politics and a number of economic sanctions. I'd like to ask you for some openness to consider that suggestion. This can be done within the European framework, as has just been said, if it is possible, but it can also be done without Europe, if it has to. After all, Belgium can take a number of steps to unblock itself. A deblocking is necessary, given the incredible humanitarian toll of the current escalation and the current climax, which now exists in Gaza, but which, of course, is also explosively present in Westbank and East Jerusalem, apart from all kinds of nuances. Also there are the germs for a violent outburst. The toll in Gaza is there. This is the third war, the third large-scale military conflict in six years. Let us be clear, both Israel and Hamas aim deliberately at the civilian population. Since the start of this crisis, Hamas has fired over 1 200 to 1 500 missiles at Israel, deliberately, to hit anyone. Israel says to carry out precision attacks, but the way it happens makes it clear that it only targets de facto citizens. And Israel accepts that. It is a western country, if I may call it that, a democratic country which is undertaking a military operation which is perfectly aware that it will lead to very many civilian casualties. Of course Israel has the right to defend itself, but that is degenerate into a collective punishment of an entire people in Gaza. This right is also degenerate into a totally disproportionate attack on the Gaza Strip. The last figure I have at my disposal on the toll of civilian deaths concerns 256 Palestinians, of whom, according to the UN, three fourth citizens and at least one fifth children. First of all, Minister, I would ask you to give your opinion on such an attack. Is this disproportionate or not according to you? How do you qualify this attack? I would ask you, in your capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs, to put a label on it and to speak out against it. Mr President, there are not many of us here at the moment, and if you will allow me, I would like to tell you some stories about victims, because I think this might help. They are mainly civilian victims and to a very large extent children. Yesterday, three children died when their house was bombed by Israel. Earlier, 18 people were killed when a bomb fell on their house, including six children and three women. Last Wednesday, as Mr Lalieux also said, four boys between 9 and 11 years old died playing football on a beach in Gaza and were attacked by an Israeli warship. An Israeli air strike on 9 July around 12.35 hours at the house of Said Ghafour in Khan Yunis killed Amal Abed Ghafour, thirty years old, his seven months pregnant wife and his annual daughter. That attack followed five minutes after what is called a knock on the roof warning, a warning given by the Israeli army to civilians that their home will be bombed within a few minutes. We are talking about such tactics, about such warfare. Those five minutes aren't enough. Human Rights Watch clearly says that such a warning does not relieve the attacking party of the obligation to refrain from such an attack when it knows that the risk of civilian casualties is very high. In a café in Gaza where Palestinian football fans followed the semi-finals of the World Cup in Brazil on July 10th, like we did, we also followed the World Cup at home or at café, in very safe conditions, nine people died. The Fun Time Beach Bar on the beach near Khan Yunis in the south of Gaza, was attacked and bombed. Nine victims were killed, including Ahmed....18 years...... and two fifteen-year-old young men. A café is bombed at a time when an intelligence service knows that there are a lot of civilians and even children there to follow the football match. Minister, that has nothing to do with self-defense anymore. I would like you to speak in those terms as well. You know that international law obliges all warring parties to make a distinction between soldiers and civilians. Israel is flagrantly violating that humanitarian rule. Can you imagine how such a conflict would encourage radicalisation, both on the Palestinian side and on the Israeli side, because there too, this radicalisation of society is clearly taking place? There too the discourse hardens. Mr Van der Maelen has just set the example of someone at ministerial level. What is needed, but what is lacking, is for this strategic objective of peace to be established on both sides and for all actions to be put into effect. However, that is not the case. There are other objectives of own power interest and even some electoral importance, so that what is quite obvious to us is let us go to peace and let us do everything we can to achieve that peace, as on both sides is not the case at all. On your website a while ago we read a message in which you warn Belgian companies. I was positively surprised to read that. You pointed out to them the risks of doing business with companies in Israel, in particular with regard to the legal status of the occupied territories. I believe that such an initiative is commendable, but I would like to ask you how you stand with regard to further diplomatic political action. I want to make it very concrete. From our group we see five ways of moving towards a deblocking, on top of indignation, calls and so on. We'd like to ask you to consider a few things. A first concrete point. On 22 July there will be the Council of Ministers. European policy on Gaza is on the agenda, so is Israel and Palestine. It is, of course, an opportunity for a more active European Union. You said just now that you are prepared to focus not only on Gaza but also on the wider conflict within the framework of that European Council. I believe that you have put it that way, in other words, that you wish to refer the wider conflict between Israel and Palestine to your fellow Members for discussion. Did I understand that correctly or not? Of course, European initiatives are needed to achieve a ceasefire. It is also crucial for Israel to open its borders to humanitarian aid. Secondly, the arms trade. I think we should discuss this au fond. Do you think it is appropriate that weapons be exported to that region? Are you prepared to plead a suspension as a federal foreign minister? This is an effective regional competence, but we believe that your position as Minister for Foreign Affairs can be important. The suspension of arms deliveries to Israel, Hamas and other interested parties in the area is necessary, including the supply to countries suspected of supplying arms to Hamas. Arms deliveries from our country and other European countries which are suspected to end up in Hamas must be suspended. That was my second question. Thirdly, we could also publicly support President Abbas' intention to join the International Criminal Court. That is one of the unilateral measures you have just mentioned. That would be very good because both Israel and Palestine would have to answer for violations of international law. I think you are quite easily opposed to unilateral action, but I would ask you very specifically what needs to be done. I ask you for solutions, for an alternative. It is no longer enough to be indignant or to wait for what is happening at European level. What proposals will you advocate at European level? What measures does Belgium intend to take unilaterally? Fourthly, as you have just mentioned, we are in favour of a formal ban in our country on the sale of Israeli products coming from illegal settlements in Palestinian territory. A first step, which is still being worked on, is the labelling of these products. This is important so that consumers know where these products come from, especially from illegally occupied territories. This has also been done at European level. In fact, I believe that Catherine Ashton was in favour of such a regulation at European level, not just at Benelux level, but that the European Commission was counterproductive. Several DGs were apparently involved in this. In short, what is the state of this European initiative? I ask the same question about the Belgian level. There was a guideline prepared by the FPS Economy. According to our information, we were waiting for the Foreign Affairs Council to adopt this directive. However, I do not think it is necessary to wait for the Benelux countries, as you have just said. It is true that we first tried to reach an agreement within the Benelux countries. The Netherlands was bothered by that time. However, there is no need for it in the Benelux. Belgium can take such initiatives perfectly without the Benelux. What are we waiting for if the Netherlands would stop a consensus within the Benelux? Belgium can go on alone. That is what we are proposing. Fifth and finally, Gaza obviously needs humanitarian aid. Yesterday, the UNRWA refugee organisation called on donors to provide additional assistance through a flash appeal. The amount required was EUR 60 million. In Gaza there is a shortage of food and basic services. There is damage to hospitals, to schools, to shelter structures for people who had to flee their homes. You know that Belgium is traditionally an important donor of UNRWA. What budgets and resources do you intend to release in the light of this humanitarian crisis? Is it true that this extra humanitarian aid would be blocked because the government is in current affairs? Can you inform us about this budget for humanitarian aid? I would ask for your opinion on this matter. Humanitarian aid is needed and we need to free up these budgets, even because humanitarian aid from the West loosens the dependence of Gaza's inhabitants on Hamas' services. So that is also in our favour, so that we can reduce the dependency of the inhabitants on extremist organisations. I would also like to ask you how you see the relationship with Hamas. One of the difficulties in reaching a ceasefire or in reaching a negotiated solution is, of course, that Hamas is an organisation that commits acts of terror and does not maintain diplomatic relations. If I am not mistaken, there are two exceptions at European level, namely Switzerland and Norway. I thought that Norway has even formally made the offer of direct mediation with Hamas. This could be something that Belgium can advocate at European level, namely to use Norway's offer to unblock it. How do you see that? What is your position on that? There is one common thread in what we want to show you, namely that the initiatives and policies of the past few years have actually failed, including through the fond of this conflict, namely the settlements that Israel continues to build, without much appealing for indignation and calls for respect for international law. It is up to us to learn lessons from the past, and we must increase the economic and legal pressure on all the warring parties, in order to enforce respect for international law, with Europe as it can, but without Europe as it has to. Minister, I would like a concrete commitment from you. I did not hear that during your introduction. I would like to hear from you in concrete terms what new initiatives Belgium will develop in order to unblock there.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u21	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group's concern today is undoubtedly a humanitarian concern. Others have said so; the current situation in the Gaza Strip poses considerable problems. I will not repeat here the inventory of the dead, the wounded, including of course women and children, the situation in terms of water supply, electricity, the draining system, etc. I don't even mention schools or hospitals. This seems almost luxury in relation to these basic needs. All of this is of particular concern. We know that one of the basic principles of humanitarian law is, of course, the protection of the civilian population, regardless of the facts of the conflict. Launching rockets on the Israeli population is unacceptable. Shooting civilians, women and children on the Gaza side in an undifferentiated manner is also unacceptable. Mr. Minister, you said, "We also need to think about what's next." Without wishing to take up proposals that have been made by others, I would like to ask you a very concrete, precise and immediate question for the coming year. Elections were planned. By the end of the year, is it still the order of the possible, of the feasible, of the practical given the situation that exists at this level? On this ground, have you had any contact with your Israeli or Palestinian colleagues? Would the European Union or Belgium possibly have to intervene in any way in support of this electoral process?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u22	Mr President, Minister, the images broadcast the day before yesterday showing us four children playing on the beach in Gaza and murdered by the Israeli army have all struck us a lot. They hit us because they are the tip of the iceberg of a deliberate offensive by one of the most powerful armies in the world against civilian populations. What did these four children do? What are they responsible for? Are these the well-known targeted attacks that the Israeli government is talking about? In our view, the international community cannot remain indifferent to the situation of the people of Gaza. With regard to civilian casualties, a counter was arbitrarily launched at the beginning of the IDF armed offensive. But why not also account for all those mothers who were due to give birth and who were unable to reach the hospital in time because of Israeli checkpoints that block all possible traffic in the West Bank and Gaza Strip? Why not talk about all those children who are currently undernourished and who are dying because of the situation that has existed for fifty years because of Israeli policy in the Palestinian territories? Today, it seems important that the Belgian government distance itself from the theory of equidistance. I would like to join my colleague, Mr. Van der Maelen, on the subject. I regret that, in the course of our Government's political decision-making, we remain in this straitjacket of the equidence that has led over the past fifty years to Israel's continued expansion and colonization of Palestinian territories. Between 29 November 1947 and 8 January 2009, no fewer than 34 UN resolutions condemned the State of Israel. In this case, we cannot speak of a war with two camps at all points equivalent, equidistant from one another. It therefore seems important to us that the Belgian Government take a clear position of principle against the policy of apartheid in Israel. As in South Africa in the 1950s, 60s, 70s and 80s, it is important that the Belgian government take a strong position. We cannot put on an equal footing a military policy conscious of an overarmed State with the resistance of a people who, for more than fifty years, have been driven out of their lands. A policy of one of the last colonizing States in the world cannot be put on an equal footing with the resistance of this Palestinian youth who want to live in peace. As Nelson Mandela said, we must take a clear position because our freedom is incomplete in the absence of that of the Palestinian people. Mr Minister, I want to insist that the Belgian State break with this equidence. This is not a question of defence and security of a State, it is a pure and simple aggression of a State with which our country has strong economic relations. Should I remind you that the European Union has a privileged cooperation agreement with Israel? On behalf of the PTB, we call on the government to urgently and firmly condemn the illegal Israeli aggression against Gaza and clear sanctions against the Israeli State. I would remind you that Chile did the same yesterday. Today, we see that other States in the world have the courage to point the finger at those responsible for this situation. We call for an arms embargo and for any form of military assistance to Israel. We call for a suspension of the preferential economic cooperation agreement between Israel and the European Union, as well as other cooperation agreements, until international law is respected by Israel in the region. Finally, we call on the Belgian Government to introduce a ban on Belgian companies from having economic relations with companies operating in the territories under occupation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u23	Mr President, I will start with one word. I've heard the word "unannounced." On what level? During an initial intervention, I heard it said that Israel has no right to defend itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u24	(...) I just want to know your position on this, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u25	I've tried to listen and I've heard the same word twice or three times. Here's what I want to say. I try to maintain the same position over and over again. That is the position that the European Council always takes, two days ago, with the 28 Heads of Government around the table, including our Prime Minister. The reasoning is almost the same as that of my latest statements or communications: a condemnation of the use of missiles from Gaza to Israel and the regret of the civilian victims in Gaza after Israel's attacks on Gaza. I am always trying to express myself in a nuanced way towards both sides, not to go one way or the other. I am also trying to work within the European Union. I understand all the questions about taking steps from Belgium, possibly individually. What we do individually, however, has absolutely no influence whatsoever. You should know that. Working individually from Belgium is not the way to do anything in that file.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u26	You also mentioned the labelling of the Benelux. The Benelux isn't the most appropriate way, is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u27	You have given me questions from another order, not just about labelling.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u28	We're allowed to have that discussion, right?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u29	Yeah, can I give you an answer? I've read your questions and...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u30	I suggest that the Minister first formulates his full answer. My fellow Members will then have the opportunity to replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u31	You always ask one-sidedly for measures, for measures on one side, no more than that. I understand that, and it's your right to ask. However, I say that we from Belgium have no influence at all on the field on the ground, especially if we take a one-sided position where we do not involve the other party. I'm gonna go over my explanatory statement again. First of all, I keep trying to stay as nuanced as possible. Secondly, the possible actions of the European Union. A year ago I spoke in this committee about a question from my American colleague, John Kerry, to which I referred in my introduction. He asked to give President Obama the opportunity to develop a new initiative. We have done so, but President Obama was not really successful on the road to a political solution. That is why we are now saying that we must take an initiative at European level, in cooperation with America. What does this initiative mean? First of all, we call for a ceasefire. The next European Council will repeat this: a ceasefire on both sides, not only from one side or from the other, but from both sides. Secondly, there must certainly be humanitarian aid. I repeat that Belgium is one of the main donors of UNRWA. You can say that we need to do more, but the reality is that we are one of the most important donors. I am prepared to ask my colleague in development cooperation to look at new possibilities, but I repeat that we are one of the main sources of funding for UNRWA. That is what the representatives of UNRWA say. Thirdly, we are trying to find a political solution. I believe that it should be possible, in addition to the current or next High Representative of the European Union, to have a specific representative for the Middle East. It is time to have someone in Europe working day after day on the situation in the Middle East. I will argue for this at the next Council. That would be a very important decision of the European Union. With a special representative for that region, we would show that we are working on it day after day. As for the electoral process, we support the reconciliation process. The advantage is that, for now, we can work with social networks; I already know the messages we will receive after a press release. In fact, I launched a communiqué to greet the government of national reconciliation: you can imagine where the virulent reactions came from. Conversely, as soon as Hamas condemns the use of missiles and rockets, I already know what I will receive. However, I continue to reiterate that we must support this process of national reconciliation. The European Union, and therefore Belgium, is ready to support an electoral process in this context; of course. It should be handled with the necessary caution with the Palestinian authorities, but it must be part of a process of national reconciliation. The objective remains the two-State solution. We'll probably call him back on Tuesday and I'll plead that. If a global solution seems impossible, perhaps it is a matter of going back through various agreements, the first one I believe is on the borders. If we could at least resume the dialogue on borders, that would open up a space for political solutions. We are asking for concrete action: what is very concrete is that, if steps are taken towards a political agreement, the European Union will recall that, within the framework of a comprehensive agreement, it proposes an economic partnership in the region. I always hope that a conference on investment capacity in the region will be held in Belgium; to do so, a minimum of political change is essential. Each of us realizes that we will not encourage investment in an area of open conflict, such as the current situation, or that it could be revived if there is no political development. We want to move forward in this direction. I've had questions about the Quartet. I have already said that a quartet is more useful for music than for politics, but I am willing to work with the Quartet. However, I think it would be very useful for the European Union to put a concrete proposal on the table, if possible in cooperation with the United States. With other partners, why not? As you know, in a quartet there may be very difficult partners in relation to other dossiers. It is more important to do something about the European Union and the United States. As far as the Belgians in the region are concerned, Mr Goffin, we have changed, as we do regularly, the travel notices. Of course, we did not recommend any presence in an area of 40 km around Gaza. The messages are very clear. If a presence is not indispensable in the region, it is not very useful at this time to go into bombardment at any time. Opinions have been clearly communicated; all those who wish to visit the region are informed. Some citizens may be in Gaza. At the moment, we do not have any particular operation in this area. I was in Romania earlier this week and our Romanian colleagues, on the other hand, had to evacuate more than 200 people, mainly women and children from mixed marriages, who were still present in Gaza. There may still be other operations of the same nature, but we are not, at the moment, directly involved in this type of operation. With regard to the authorisation of demonstrations, I would like to point out systematically that they must mention the offences that are committed in the event of the dissemination of a number of slogans. I repeat: I do not want the Israeli-Palestinian conflict to be imported into the communities that live here, whatever these communities. I cited the example of a demonstration with obvious slippages. There may be others in the other direction. It is important that the message is clearly passed. If we are to contravene it, we must be able to react strongly, through prosecution, because it is crimes that are committed - we must always remind you - when we display a number of slogans or when we speak about certain things. Next Tuesday, but perhaps also in the coming weeks and months, we will always have to come to a real consultation within the European Union. I repeat that the European Union must speak with one voice and make proposals to really influence that conflict. Without this consensus, there is no point in it. Mr President, I understand that you said that a liberal, although there are many liberals in the world, has had a different view in another country. I repeat, however, two days ago, 28 leaders, including four Liberals, sat around the table. The other 24 leaders must therefore be from other parties. The reasoning there was exactly the same as my reasoning today. I do not see any difference between the conclusions set out in point 10 of the conclusions of the European Council and our position. We can come forward with a number of proposals. With regard to labelling, I repeat that I will come forward with proposals. I just note that there is no request for advice from the State Department. I have already mentioned during my discourse that we can give advice. However, we are only asking for such advice to be given, at least within the framework of the Benelux countries, not only on that dossier but also on the economic aspect. It does not have to be at European level, although there are some attempts at European level, albeit without any success. This was not only a response from the European Commission but also from several countries. However, we have considered that such labelling might be possible because of the Benelux countries. There is no problem here. It's about an intel. For consumers and even against Israel, there is no real possibility of doing so. So far, however, there has been no agreement within the Benelux. In my opinion, however, we can start. There are a number of problems if we were to do so only within our country. However, it is the same products and the same language, although there are sometimes some language problems in Belgium. Nevertheless, we must be careful in dealing with the demand for the various producers. I hear that the same reasoning is being followed in the Department of Economics. So I have nothing against one step further. However, I have tried to reach an agreement at Benelux level. I have given my agreement to such labelling. I don't have a problem with that. For the rest, however, I am trying to reach a real agreement within the European Union. I have already explained that there are some points that should be discussed before our next sitting. Mr President, you have spoken about other countries in the region, which is correct. We are now in a very dangerous situation in the region, with a lot of problems in different countries, such as Iraq, Syria and Libya, but also in Tunisia, where there was a real problem a few hours ago. There was also a problem in Egypt for many months. I fear that the pressure on Lebanon and Jordan is very high. We must therefore be very careful. I see no way out, except by pressure on the two sides: not only for a cease-fire, but to sit around the table for peace, but also for a new political evolution towards a two-state solution and for a new economic evolution with real support from the European Union. The question was: what are the possibilities for the European Union? I have mentioned a few points that are possible as far as we are concerned. However, we must do more. In recent months, there has been an agreement within the European Union to give opportunities to the initiative of our American fellow Members. Not only has this failed politically, but we are now asking for a ceasefire: the situation is worse than it was a year ago. Now the European Union must come up with a real proposal. I hope it will be possible to do so on Tuesday. In the medium or long term, it is useful for Mrs Ashton or her successor to have a specific representative for the Middle East, with which we can be present in all possible negotiations on the situation. There was an attempt with the United States, but now we have to take the next step together. I understand all the arguments, but I repeat our conclusion and the position of many countries at European level: to have influence in such a region, one must give a balanced response and not always against one side or the other. Secondly, we must do so in cooperation with all European countries. Without cooperation between the European countries, we are outside the debate and have no influence on the field. I would like to thank the four or five groups which have responded in a very balanced manner. That was also the response of the Belgian Government to the European Council. That will be Belgium's response to the next Councils, such as the Foreign Affairs Council next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u32	Mr Minister, I propose that we now give our fellow Members the opportunity to reply. I will proceed in the same order. You have something to say, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u33	For information and in order to avoid confusion, I would like to return to the other item on the agenda. The department will send a press release in connection with a sixth Belgian victim of the plane crash. That person was identified as a Dutch victim on the first list, but we now have information showing that she was a woman of dual nationality. She lived in Groningen. We now have certainty in this matter. So it was a woman of dual nationality. It is not a new victim: it was a Dutch victim, who apparently also had Belgian nationality. So there are actually six Belgian victims. It was a miscalculation. I spoke with my Dutch colleague yesterday about the problem of double nationality. We have to be very careful, otherwise we can end up with more than 300 victims. I therefore confirm a sixth Belgian victim, who was already on the first list as a Dutch victim. This is a problem of dual nationality. So there are six Belgian victims of the plane crash.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u34	I propose that we return to the order of magnitude of the groups. Those of you who wish to be able to replicate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u35	Minister, you can see why it is useful for us to ask you questions. I am somewhat reassured by your answer. A ceasefire is priority number one. Humanitarian aid must also be provided, but above all a political solution must be found. It seems obvious, therefore, that Europe must respond in a united way, and then it will be much stronger and perhaps it will find hearing. However, I have received the requested clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u36	You said two things, Minister. Firstly, you ask for balance in the responses and secondly, you ask for all our efforts to be placed within the European framework, otherwise they would have no effect. I don't think this is correct. I would like to discuss this further. We have made a number of concrete suggestions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u37	Why don't you speak out on the arms trade? Why do you not call, as Foreign Minister and thus the first party to the conflict, among other things the Regions, to say that Belgium is in favour of suspending the arms trade to that region and certainly to countries suspected of supplying arms to the warring parties, including Hamas? Belgium could do that perfectly. Does this have an impact? Yes. Will this stop all the arms trade? No. But maybe part of it. It will also work sensitizingly. Secondly, you can support Palestinian accession to the International Criminal Court. That too can be sensational for other European countries. Thirdly, there is the labelling of products. I understand that you have no problem with the fact that Belgium is taking an initiative in this respect, regardless of the Benelux? Isn't that what you said? Belgium can perfectly take an initiative, apart from the Benelux? Isn't it? Perhaps you could shed some light on that? If you say that it is not possible within Europe and we must do it with the Benelux, it must also be possible for Belgium to do it alone. There are indeed practical difficulties such as bilingual labels, etc., but they are not insurmountable. The UK and Denmark already have specific rules on labels. Belgium can therefore continue without the Benelux, with effect, with impact. What we are asking for is no less than respect for international law. That has nothing to do with an unbalanced reaction. For years, international law has been labeling settlements as illegal. I would ask for respect for that statement, for respect for international law. We must raise the question whether, if a country does not submit to international law, we must continue to regret it and continue to call for it? No, we need to move on. With the EU if it can, without the EU if it has to. I hope I've given you some pistes. If Belgium takes unilateral action, it will have an effect in a number of cases, or at least it will be sensitising. With regard to the humanitarian aid budget, did I ask you whether there is a problem and whether this budget is indeed blocked because the government is in progress? This is independent of whether Belgium wants to give more. Can it be technical-legal? It is a good thing that you want to propose that there should be a representation for the Middle East at the European Council next Tuesday. I think it is important that the conclusions of the European Council not only refer to Gaza but also to the wider conflict between Israel and Palestine. I understand that not all countries are on that line. I also asked you to rule on Israel's violence, whether it is disproportionate or not. I can't stop thinking that's important. There is an imbalance, look at the number of victims and the number of civilian casualties. I also asked you whether direct mediation with Hamas could be an option for you. There is a European country, Norway, which is effectively putting this on the table. Can that be a possibility for you or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u38	Madam President, Minister, I would like to respond to two points. First of all, there is the equidistance. We will never find a solution if we continue to use it. Since the inequality between the two partners is so great, we are never going to find a solution. Even if I found the equidistance doctrine the right approach, I still find the following in the facts. I look at your press release of 9 July, which precedes the decision of the European Summit on 16 July. It is true that the wording is about the same, but I note that your point of view, which was first, was fluffy. You may be able to knock yourself on the chest and say that you are a good judge of where we are going to come out of Europe, and perhaps your diplomacy can be proud of that. I note, however, that we are taking a floppy position, which is not sufficiently courageous. I'll take your press release today, July 18th. I have a lot of criticism of Hamas, but you cannot say that I am one-sided. I condemn the shooting off of Israel because it is contrary to international law and it cannot be accepted. I regret or even dare to condemn the fact that they do not accept a ceasefire. Now I ask you whether you agree with me that launching a fundamental offensive is an escalation of the conflict. Right? However, I note that it does not come out of your mouth to condemn this escalation; you regret the escalation. If you approach the two parties in the same way, you must say that you condemn the escalation. The last sentence of the first paragraph of your press release today was: "He hopes that the offensive will be limited and short-lived." Can it be a little more, please? Would you mind getting a little sharper? Do not say that we are one-sided because we are also criticising Israel. I note that you always work with two sizes and two weights. You condemn Hamas and Israel approach you with the gloves. Finally, my final point. I continue to believe that the solution or the beginning of a solution starts with respect for international law. As long as Israel feels that it can break international law without penalty, inter alia because the West, with the Americans in the lead, accepts everything that Israel does at most, one will issue a strong communiqué but in practice one will continue to support it. Israel should be crazy to change its attitude. If we look at the last 60 years, who has improved from the blocked situation in the Middle East? Israel is the winner all over the line. As I said, what remains is a hull state that may not be viable for the Palestinians. Why would Israel change its attitude if it can break international law with impunity and if it serves its interests? As long as we in the West do not have the courage to tell Israel that it is enough and that there will be sanctions according to each time they talk about it, as is happening to Russia, and I agree with that, nothing will change. Mr Minister, as long as we do not adopt that attitude, nothing will change.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u39	Madam President, Minister, I stress that if Belgium cannot act within the Benelux framework, it must do so alone. Denmark and Great Britain have done so. This is one way to move forward towards this economic and political pressure on Israel to put an end to the colonization that is the core of the problem today. We have seen that every time there is a new name for an Israeli military action, it is hardened: "Defence pill" and "Protective barrier". The Israeli conflict has become emblematic for the entire region and the whole world. Today radical Palestinian, Syrian or Iraqi groups are also changing their names. Practices, demands and political discourses are increasingly radical, so that it has become impossible to imagine discussing with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, for example. However, this is the situation in which one could find oneself in a few months if the IDF continues its strikes on Gaza. This Palestinian population is totally and definitively acquired from absolutely undemocratic theses. There is an urgent need for action, and to do so, labelling is a first step. If it cannot be done at Benelux level, we must act alone. Minister, you said that the war was also taking place on social networks, and that many young people were running for this emblematic conflict. Does the federal government intend to set up, as has been the case for Syria, a joint monitoring unit for foreign affairs and internal affairs in order to see what young people are going to the region, to both sides? This conflict has become an identity for some young people in Europe. It would be damaging to reiterate the mistakes made in that regard in the Syrian conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u40	Mr President, I would like to answer two specific questions. Firstly, a question was raised concerning a Security Council resolution. Now, there has been no new resolution on a ceasefire, but a communiqué. The previous resolutions dated 2009 and dealt, for example, with the blockade of Gaza. I said at the time that we were in favour of unblocking the situation for both sides. It was Israel and Egypt. The Security Council has therefore not now adopted a new resolution on the current situation. Only a statement or communiqué has been published, with no additional elements. Secondly, I understand the reasoning about Norway or Switzerland. These are European countries, but as you may know, they are not members of the European Union. Hamas is a terrorist organisation for the European Union. So I will not make a proposal to enter into a direct diplomatic dialogue with a terrorist organisation. It would be almost hard for me, if I wanted to. This is perhaps possible for Switzerland and any other non-EU countries. With regard to labelling, I would like to say the following. I am in favour of this and I have no problem with the application of it by my fellow Minister for Economic Affairs, because the same rules are also followed in Britain and Denmark. However, you must read the measures in Denmark and Great Britain carefully. This is done on a voluntary basis, so the reasoning is not exactly the same as the one we advocated in the Benelux countries. For me, it's no problem to do that, as long as it's workable for Economic Affairs. I have given my agreement on the Belgian side, but I do not know whether it is possible or whether it is possible, as you will understand. I have heard the comments and I understand the reasoning behind the labelling. Mr President, I always maintain the same position for Belgium. I have sent out a few communiqués, and I will also defend that position at the European Council. The Prime Minister also defended this position on behalf of the Belgian Government, with its current majority. Maybe some parties take a more individual view, but I am still trying to maintain the same line, which so far has been achieved with six parties in the current period of current cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u41	I would like to ask the Minister and fellow Members about a possible follow-up to this meeting. I have a proposal of my own, but I know that timing and timing are not the most appropriate moment. I had suggested that the ambassadors of Palestine and Israel should be invited to the committee in order to have a direct dialogue with them, giving them their views and with them a discussion and exchange of information. Could this be next week? Secondly, on 22 July there will be a Council of Foreign Ministers to discuss Ukraine and Gaza. I asked the Minister if he would be available next week, but unfortunately he is not available due to foreign commitments. That would mean that we would be able to hear the Minister in the first week of August at the earliest, or would we postpone?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u42	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u43	The last week of July, July 28? If that's what the committee wants, she can meet. I have a problem, because I'm leaving abroad on 27 July, but the committee can meet. If my fellow Members so wish, and if the Minister is available, they will be able to receive a report on the two issues discussed at the Council meeting on 22 July. I suggest we clear out that last one first. Colleagues, what is your opinion? Will we organise another meeting on 28, 29 or 30 July where the Minister will report on the discussions at the Council of Foreign Ministers of the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u44	Mr President, I respect your very good intentions, but very few Members of Parliament are still present to judge them by consensus. I think it is a very nice initiative. I personally manage to do the same for my agenda, but I think we are too few to decide now that the 28th is a good date.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u45	The secretariat informs me that there are only five Members present. The Minister also counts. He can even vote for it if he needs to. Now there are seven of us, but that is still not nine. I have to say, therefore, that we are in no position to convene a next committee meeting. Mr De Vriendt, you are asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u46	Mr President, our group supports your proposal. I think the absentees are wrong. I invite you to contact the various groups and see if there is any support for organising a meeting. This was a useful exchange of views. All the groups have given their concerns and inspiration. It may be useful and useful to receive feedback after the European Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-18-54-commissie-ic002x.u47	I will send a letter to every group. I hope that the political groups are still manned so that the letter does not remain there and will not be discovered until 15 August. I will make a double proposal in that letter, namely the proposal to invite both ambassadors next week and a proposal to hear the Minister on his report to the Council on 22 July, possibly between 27 and 30 July.
