ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u2	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 78: Kattrin Jadin, Gilles Foret, Emmanuel Burton, Benoît Piedboeuf, Rita Gantois, Veerle Wouters, Vincent Scourneau, Sophie Wilmès - 513: Catherine Fonck I suggest that you have a single discussion on this bill and these bills. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to this bill and these proposals. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u3	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will read to you the report of the committee which examined the programme law during its meetings on 3 and 5 December. The Minister of Finance first read the introductory statement. He explained that the government concluded a government agreement on 9 October. The draft programme law under consideration contains, for the purpose of implementing this agreement, a first set of fiscal and budgetary measures that are extremely urgent and are to be taken before 1 January 2015. The government is committed to achieving structural fiscal balance in 2018, he confirms. The consolidation of public finances is a top priority and must have a positive influence on economic recovery. In addition to an ambitious budgetary effort, the government will take complementary measures to strengthen the competitiveness of the Belgian economy through a socially corrected index jump, accelerated implementation of the Competitiveness Pact, and persistent wage moderation. This government, he said, will finally support the private sector in creating jobs. For income tax measures, he states that labour costs will be reduced by an increase in the deduction of lump-sum professional costs. For the 2015 to 2018 tax years, it is proposed to freeze the indexation of several tax expenditures at the 2014 tax year level. Labour-related tax expenditures are not frozen, nor are tax scales and child-dependent reductions. In addition, the additional reduction for pension and replacement income will still be adjusted for the 2015 tax year, and it will only be frozen at the 2015 tax year beginning with the 2016 tax year. In order to maintain fair competition between the private and public sectors, intermunicipals which will develop commercial activities from the financial year 2015, will be subject to corporate tax as long as their financial year is closed from 1 July 2015. "In order to revive the necessary economic growth, confidence is necessary," said the Minister. The proposed program bill under consideration proposes the necessary measures to restore that confidence. The colossal fine of 309%, the contribution on secret commissions, is considerably reduced and reduced to a pure compensation rate of 51.5 or 103%. During the previous legislature, the programme law of 28 June 2013 reviewed in depth the rate which relates to the liquidation bonus. The programme law provided that the rate applicable to dividends from the distribution of the company's social assets would increase from 10 to 25 per cent. The government agreement provides for a permanent transitional measure provided for in the above-mentioned programme law. However, this new measure will be maintained for small businesses within the meaning of Article 15 of the Company Code. For measures relating to value added tax, the draft programme law transposes into Belgian law the directive on "telecommunications, broadcasting and television services" and "services provided by electronic means" to non-taxable persons. For excise duties, the purchase of harmful or harmful products is deterred. In the case of alcohol and alcoholic beverages, the excise rate and the special excise rate are indexed, except for beer. The taxation of cigarettes, fine cut tobacco for the rolling of tobacco cigarettes and other smoking tobacco is reformed and amended. The environmental tax on disposable bags and bags is abolished as it has made it possible to achieve the desired change in behaviour. At the level of various taxes and duties, the planned reduction of the stock exchange tax will not take place. On the contrary, this tax will be subject to a further increase. With regard to pension savings, the government will continue to encourage pension savings. The current levy on pension savings in the third pillar will be reduced from 10 % to 8 %. The reduced collection will be taken early by pre-empting over the next five years each time 1% of the existing theoretical buy-back values from 31 December 2014. The general discussion ensued. Georges Gilkinet notes a very short-term vision and a very unfair distribution of effort. The burden of returning to a balanced budget is more borne by the most fragile. The proportion of income from capital taxation, in particular the exchange rate tax, on the one hand, and the non-indexation of tax reductions for persons with replacement income, on the other hand, is completely unbalanced. Gilkinet also notes that the government is closing holes by creating others and anticipating revenues, including pension savings and liquidation bonuses. Lastly, he noted that the Government was making resources available for the benefit of certain audiences. This is the case by choosing the path of increasing the flat-rate reduction of professional costs. Mr Dispa asked to add to the discussion the draft law amending the programme law of 23 December 2009 on aid to agriculture. The president said it would be done. He proposed to distribute to the members who did not have the analysis note drawn up by the Union des Villes et Communes de Wallonie concerning the provisions of the programme law aimed at taxing intercommunals on corporate tax. The discussion ensued chapter by chapter. For income tax, the chapter on lump sum professional fees. The Minister introduced Amendment No. 1 to replace Article 2 of the Bill with a new text. He explained that the purpose of the amendment was to determine the specific rules for calculating the increase in the flat-rate deduction of costs and to limit the budgetary impact of this increase to EUR 450 million for the 2015 budget year and to EUR 900 million from the 2016 budget year. The Minister then introduced Amendment No. 2 to replace Article 3 of the bill with a new text. He explained that Amendment No 2 should be read in conjunction with Amendment No 1. Indeed, it amends section 3 of the draft law regulating as from 1 January 2016 the increase in the tax deduction provided for by IARC 92, while section 2 regulates the deduction in the course of the 2015 budget year. Mr. Ahmed Laaouej indicates that the increase in the lump sum deduction for professional expenses is the key measure proposed by the government to reduce income tax. He regretted that it would not result in a net gain in the taxpayer's pocket, given the expected index jump. It is therefore a measure designed to slightly amortize other government measures. He asked whether amendments Nos. S1 and 2 of the Government would change the budget envelope. He wished to know why the Government had chosen to raise the maximum ceiling. The maximum indexed ceiling as it currently exists had a taxable income of around 64,000 euros. Given the marginal usefulness of tax cuts in terms of economic efficiency, low incomes should instead be targeted. Why grant an advantage to people with taxable income of more than 64,000 euros? Mr. Peter Vanvelthoven understands that the government uses this measure as an argument to state that it is introducing a tax shift. The measure is in itself positive. Nevertheless, it notes that nothing is done about the taxation of capital. The implementation of a Cayman tax was postponed as early as 2016. We don't have any tax on capital gains either. On the other hand, the new regulation on liquidation bonuses amounts to a reduction in capital tax. Mr. Georges Gilkinet pointed out that, during the election campaign, the most often advanced measure to improve tax escalation was the appropriate way to ensure that those who earn less have a higher wage, which is an incentive to work, but which is also a support for the economy. It considers that the measure proposed here does not compensate for the 2% loss of structural income resulting from the index jump. Benoît Dispa recalls the electoral promises made before the elections on 25 May. The form of distrust of the government is due in particular to the fact that voters do not find measures in the government's proposed program in line with the electoral programs of the majority parties. The measure is positive, but it is counterbalanced by a range of other measures that are much less favourable to citizens and reflect the introduction of a policy of austerity. In this respect, it also states that the measure does not benefit employees who report their actual costs. It will therefore not benefit the vast majority of the self-employed. Mr Gilkinet then introduced Amendment No 35. The author explains that the increase in lump-sum professional costs should focus on low labour income. The savings achieved by amending the amounts it proposes must contribute to the financing of the measures proposed by its amendment No 37. The Minister of Finance then submits the note from the FPS Finance to the members. It compares this note to the previous note dated 28 October 2014. It is quite interesting to note that according to the evolution of the criteria decided by the government, the average gain in euros decreases for half of the citizens who earn the least. He was therefore surprised by the undistributed nature of the measure. In conclusion, the member expressed his total disagreement with the government's decisions. The minister stated that he totally disagreed with Mr. Gilkinet's conclusions. The measure taken is essentially an activation measure whose effects on the minimum wage can be seen. We're in front of a difference in mutual analysis. Mr. Dispa pointed out that, on the basis of the note provided, it appeared that the independents would benefit from the measure up to 0.73 per cent. Mr Ahmed Laaouej asked the Minister to provide a summary table showing the impact of Amendments Nos 1 and 2 by category of income. Although this measure benefits the highest deciles, it can always be progressive, given that it is the highest incomes that contribute the most to the tax of natural persons. The minister replied that the government's policy and some election programs of majority parties were indeed different. This is the political reality in a coalition system of government. The Minister challenges this measure, which would provide a solution for index jumps only in the short term, i.e. for 2015. The Government wishes to maintain this measure in the following years. In the long term, this measure benefits the purchasing power of workers and contributes to the improvement of the Belgian labour market. The government will take steps in the spring of 2015 to develop the so-called Cayman tax. We must now draw inspiration from the British and Dutch models. With respect to the comparison with the tax on the wind-up reserve, the Minister notes that the wind-up reserve constitutes an additional tax of 10%. On the contrary, it is not a question of a tax reduction. On the other hand, firms may actually benefit from an advantage, in the event of liquidation or when the liquidation reserve is retained for at least five years. With respect to subsection 2, the suspension of indexation of certain tax expenditures, I pointed out that it was not only intended to freeze a whole series of tax expenditures for the 2015 to 2018 tax years, but also that the resumption of indexation from 2019 onwards would be without any compensation for previous years. In other words, the effect of the measure will continue to be felt. The FPS Finances anticipates that 67% of these freezes will be borne by pensioners, pre-pensioners, the unemployed and the disabled. It is therefore a perfectly asocial measure, which even becomes revolting when we know to what derisory tax is subject to the wealth. I have also referred to the opinion of the Council of State on the bill, which draws attention to the problematic calculation of the index used to guide the proposed reform. The FPS Finance clearly does not follow the calculation method applied by the FPS Economy, SMEs, Middle Classes and Energy. Does this not lead to considerable legal uncertainty? Mr. Ahmed Laaouej endorsed the last comment. In this regard, he refers the commission and the minister to an article published in Echo. Mr. Peter Vanvelthoven notes that the base year used for the freeze is the 2014 tax year, which covers 2013 revenues and tax expenditure figures reported to taxpayers in 2013. He endorsed the analysis carried out by Mr. Stéphane Crusnière. This measure, which is in fact nothing but a disguised tax increase, will be proportionately very heavy for pensioners, the unemployed and the disabled. It is these categories that will have to bear two thirds of the freeze. Mr. Georges Gilkinet confirmed that this de facto tax increase would mainly affect social beneficiaries: they enjoyed a limited tax advantage and risked exceeding the income ceiling more quickly from which they would no longer be entitled to any tax advantage. He cautioned against the consequences of the freezing of the tax reduction to which donations to the voluntary sector were entitled. More symbolically, it deplores the freezing of the reduction granted for low-energy dwellings. Mr. Georges Gilkinet, on the other hand, better understands the pension savings measure. Benoît Dispa regrets the attitude of the government, which stressed in its press release on the preliminary draft, that on the basis of the index of tax expenditures aimed at avoiding income indexation, the average rate of taxation of each taxpayer is increasing. Since income is not indexed, it is normal for the government to also suspend the indexation of tax deductions, otherwise this would reduce the taxes of the persons concerned. The index jump is limited until 2015, so why keep the freeze until 2018? The Minister indicated that the government intends to clean up the budgetary situation and therefore give priority to spending measures. The Minister refutes the view that such a measure would by definition harm the economy because of its impact on purchasing power. There is no question of retroactive effect. This year's maxima are the same as last year's. With respect to the observation of the Council of State, the Minister indicated that the difference in the calculation of the index between the FPS Finance and the FPS Economy dates back to 1988, when this year was taken as the new base year. Mr. Ahmed Laaouej maintains that the government is taking a significant risk. The social aspect of this measure is also important: about two thirds of its burden is based on the unemployed, pensioners and the disabled. I then tabled Amendment No 24 on the freezing of tax expenditure until 2018. I recalled that this is an antisocial measure par excellence that will mainly affect pensioners, the unemployed and the disabled. Mr Gilkinet then tabled Amendment No 37, which aims to maintain this indexation. Mr Gilkinet then tabled Amendment No 38. The author points out that the measure of non-indexation of private donations will penalise the non-profit sector and lead to a gradual loss of financing for this sector. Mr Gilkinet then tabled a third amendment. It considers that the measure of non-indexing of expenditure related to the construction of passive housing – which in fact accounts for very little – is contrary to Belgium's climate objectives and international commitments. As regards corporate tax, and more specifically intercommunal tax, Mr. Alain Mathot regretted that the tax shift was clearly at the expense of the municipalities, which were ultimately the shareholders of the intercommunals. Are we also aware of the fact that many intercommunals do not make any profit? Why not provide compensation in favour of the municipalities for the intercommunals who do not generate profits? This reform ultimately also affects consumers, who will have to face higher prices. Has the government considered the possibility of price increases? He was concerned about the non-market sector in general and about hospitals in particular. It is mainly the latter that have often formed considerable reserves for heavy investments. He wondered when that measure would enter into force. What reservations will be imposed? The Court of Auditors also notes that there is discrimination against certain rules. Although they carry out activities comparable to those of intercommunals, they are beyond the scope of the proposed regulation. This is, for example, the case of the port of Antwerp. This is in contradiction with the government's desire to combat unfair competition. How has the amount of EUR 200 million in the first year, increased by EUR 10 million in the following years, been calculated? On 3 December 2014, Santhea issued a press release on behalf of the non-market sector and mainly the care and care facilities for the elderly, in which it pointed to the provision for the review of the programme law. Will not hospitals that have taken the form of a non-profit association be taxed, unlike hospitals – such as those in Liège and Seraing, for example – that do exactly the same work but have taken the form of a cooperative? Mr. Roel Deseyn considered it essential to take compensatory and accompanying measures for the municipalities following the foreseeable loss of income. He pointed out that it was important not to lose sight of the fact that the municipalities supported 50% of public investment. He feared that a casuistic might be generated. Is the operation of a swimming pool a commercial activity? Will the parking lot of a hospital have to be divided into hospital activities? Should the store in a hospital complex also be split? Mr Gilkinet endorsed a number of elements imposed on the municipalities. However, it considers that everything within the public service domain must be exempt from the planned tax on reserves. The Council of State also notes that previously constituted reservations should not fall within the scope of the regulation proposed by the Government. Mr Vanvelthoven noted that many intercommunal electricity and water distribution systems, for example, could not compete unfairly if they had a legal monopoly. The Flemish Government intends to promote cooperation between the municipalities. The proposed regulation of the federal government discourages it. He wondered whether the bill was not likely to be simply postponed to the citizens. Will the new legislation be implemented on 1 January? In the Minister's view, does an intercommunal waste disposal carry out a commercial activity or not? In his capacity as president of the Union of Towns and Municipalities of Wallonia, Mr Dispa deplored the fact that the federal authority had taken the measure without prior consultation. However, cities and municipalities are responsible interlocutors as they have demonstrated in the discussions on the reform of emergency and fire services. Has there been any consultation with the Regions, he wonders? Has the consultation committee been referred to? What about the introduction of the tax on established reserves? How will intercommunals which exercise a natural monopoly and are responsible for the distribution of water, gas and electricity be taxed? Does this measure mean that services will be privatized? The proposed shift from corporate tax to corporate tax will lead to a reduction in municipal finances, and it will ultimately be the citizens who will pay for the addition. The resulting modest tax advantage is justified by the fact that they provide services to the public. Mr Piedboeuf asked how the amount of EUR 200 million, as a tax revenue, had been calculated. Mr Laaouej stressed that the proposed measure whereby the tax administration would have to examine on a case-by-case basis, whatever the legal form of the intercommunal concerned, if it had a gainful activity subject to competition, was a source of legal uncertainty. The words "lucratif" and "commercial" are not synonymous. The tax administration will favour the legal form rather than the nature of the activity of the intercommunal in question. To avoid legal uncertainty, it is simply necessary to exclude sectors active in the field of public services. If not, this litigation will take on disproportionate proportions. The Union of Cities and Municipalities and the non-market sector would like to be reassured in this respect. Mr Mathot then tabled Amendment No 25, the aim of which was to delete the device. He also tabled Amendment No 32, which proposed non-taxation of reservations. Amendment No 33 provides that intercommunals primarily responsible for public service tasks will be excluded from the regulation. The Minister of Finance provides the following responses. The proposed regulation aims to combat unfair competition. Many intercommunals are said to be mixed, i.e. they benefit from private sector participation, so that it is certainly not always possible to speak of a purely public service. Many municipalities play an important role as investors. They will therefore be treated with the necessary sensitivity. Not all intercommunals will be subject to corporate tax. However, their exclusion is no longer automatic. From now on, intercommunals will be subject to corporate tax only if it appears, after examination, that they are engaged in commercial activities, confirms the Minister. As regards the entry into force, in most intercommunals, the accounting year coincides with the calendar year. The new regulations will apply to fiscal year 2015, not fiscal year 2014. With regard to the 2015 tax year, only inter-municipals that close their accounts after July 1, 2015, will be included, but this is not the case for most of them. The intercommunals that fall within the scope of the regulation are those that operate as businesses or engage in gainful activities, he confirms. In the case of established reserves, a transitional regime will apply, as has been the case for bpost. Incorporated reserves that were subject to tax by legal persons will not be taxed again. On the other hand, if they were not yet taxed, they would be subject to corporate tax. The Minister believes that it may be useful to change the legal form of certain intercommunals in order to clarify their situation and, for example, to exclude gainful activities by statute. In his reply, Mr. Alain Mathot would have liked a more precise answer. In the text, the words "profit-making transactions" are used. This concept must be distinguished from that of "commercial activities". The word "lucratif" only means that revenues are higher than costs. Why is it necessary to change the status of an intercommunal who runs a hospital, when it would be sufficient to include in the law that this provision does not apply to non-profit transactions? The same problem arises for nursing and nursing homes. The Minister guarantees a profitability of 5%. Is it certain? Mr. Van Biesen explains that it is the economic nature and not the structure that determines whether or not a company is subject to corporate tax. The tax authorities are already checking and levying the tax accordingly. As regards the example of hospital-related parking, the hospital will have to develop a structure to integrate the lucrative part of its activity, i.e. parking, into a normal company which is subject to corporate tax. Mr. Mathot finds it amazing that a hospital that provides parking for its patients and visitors and thus earns income is forced to set up a business to carry out this activity. He points out that, at present, many hospitals are already facing financial difficulties. Mr Laaouej pointed out that, following the repeal of Article 180(1) of IARC 92, intercommunals would automatically be subject to corporate tax. However, the explanatory memorandum states that intercommunals that do not engage in profit-making transactions will be subject to tax on legal persons. What article of the law does it contain? Secondly, what exactly is meant by the concept of profit-making transactions? This concept is in fact subject to various interpretations. The Member therefore considers that, as long as the law does not expressly provide that the non-market sector is excluded from the scope of corporate tax, the legislative amendments under consideration will create great legal uncertainty. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the Minister provide the necessary clarification on this point. The Minister states that the 2014 report of the Supreme Council of Finance states that the intervention under review can bring back 330 million euros. With regard to tax security, the Minister pointed out that it was not possible to put everything in an airtight frame. The FPS Finance will therefore organise short-term information sessions for intercommunals. According to Mr. Laaouej, the proposed measure is legally inconsistent. The Minister reiterates that the only objective is to remove an existing exception. Intercommunals who will still have questions after the planned information sessions can always request a prior decision from the Anticipated Decisions Service (ADS). Mr. Laaouej would like to know what online form the intercommunals would have to complete in 2015. Will the intercommunals themselves have to determine whether they file a tax return as part of the tax returns of legal persons or as part of the corporate tax returns? Mr. Laaouej pointed out, however, that the amendment to the law under consideration made it clear that, if it was an intercommunal one, it was corporate tax applicable to it. He reiterated that, in the explanatory memorandum, proposed legislative amendments did not correspond. In the end, only the law will count. Mr Vanvelthoven pointed out that uncertainty remained: ASBLs were in principle subject to tax on legal persons. If they are found to be engaged in gainful activities, the tax authorities may tax them in the context of corporate tax. Intercommunals, on the other hand, are in principle subject to corporate tax; they can prove otherwise in order to be able to fall within the scope of the tax of legal persons. Mr. Mathot indicates that a BLSO that manages a hospital makes a tax return for legal persons. What declaration must therefore be issued by a cooperative society which also manages a hospital? Why are the other instances listed in article 180, such as port authorities, including the port of Antwerp, mentioned in article 180, 2 of IRC 92, excluded? The Minister replied that the articles of a cooperative corporation probably provide that the purpose of the corporation is to distribute dividends to its members. For the tax authorities, these statutes are not a mere detail. Mr. Mathot therefore concludes that, although the activity is identical, a different tax system is applicable. The Minister reiterates that if a company's purpose is to distribute profits to its members, it has a profit-making purpose. Mr. Piedboeuf indicated that companies with a social purpose were commercial companies like the others, but had chosen to introduce additional conditions in their statutes. Hospitals that adopt these legal forms are therefore not subject to corporate tax. With regard to the retention with the exception of the port authorities referred to in Article 180, 2 of the CIR, the Minister replied that, on the recommendation of the Council of State, it would be examined whether that provision was in conformity with the principle of non-discrimination. Mr Alain Mathot, however, has the impression that the ports are engaged in a commercial activity. The Minister maintains his earlier position. Mr. Dispa considered that the uncertainty surrounding the provisions under consideration was confusing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Crusnière has reported on the first 28 articles. I will report on Articles 28 to 111. A first point discussed in this section concerns secret commissions. The amount of the fine of 309 % shall be reduced to 103 % and, if the advantage is granted to companies, to 51,5 %, for all new or pending disputes relating to Article 219 WIB 92. Mr Laaouej felt that the main purpose of the attack on secret commissions should be to combat fraud and therefore did not agree with the retroactive nature of the measure, which he considered unfair. Mr Gilkinet and Mr Dispa felt that this amendment was contrary to the fight against tax fraud. However, the Minister wants to promote legal certainty, because following the 309 % attack there are numerous disputes and retroactivity must ensure equal treatment of taxpayers. In the context of these secret commissions, there was also a very long technical discussion between Mr Laaouej and the Minister on whether or not to encourage undeclared work through this change of law and on whether or not to deduct the amounts paid in secret from this taxable charge. A second point that was discussed was the liquidation reserve. Mr Laaouej wondered why the government preferred the complex measure to achieve a reduction in the withholding tax for the benefit of companies and therefore disputed the supposed structural nature of the income. Mr Vanvelthoven tabled an amendment to repeal all articles relating to that liquidation reserve. Mr Gilkinet and Mr Dispa also want to know the budgetary cost of the measure. Another point is the aid to agriculture and the continuation of this aid to agriculture. This could count on general support from all those present. Mr Dispa submitted his proposal for an amendment. The MR Group also had a proposal on this, which was also signed by the N-VA Group. A fourth point is the amendments tabled by the government to amend the implementation of the Competitiveness Pact. The rate of tax credit for 2015 will not be increased, but the aim is to increase the rate of tax credit to 25.91 % in 2016. In the context of VAT, which was also discussed, Mr Laaouej and Mr Gilkinet asked for the opportunity to revise the reduced rate for the renovation of real estate. With regard to excise duties, Mr Laaouej also noted that this was, of course, largely regulated by KBBEs and that only the excise duties on tobacco and alcohol were covered, but not yet the excise duties on diesel because it is for 2016. The stock market fee was also discussed. In this connection, Mr Gilkinet has tabled Amendments Nos 40 and 41 aimed at increasing and harmonizing the rates applied to stock exchange transactions under the tax system, on the one hand, and abolishing the existing tax ceilings for each transaction on stock exchange transactions, on the other. Then I get to the part about pension savings. The tax on pension savings goes from 10% to 8%, with the addition of 1% for the next five years on the theoretical redemption value as at 31 December 2014. Mr Gilkinet and Mr Laaouej spoke on this point. Mr Gilkinet thought it was an anticipation of revenue. Mr Laaouej thought it was anything but a structural intervention. Mr Laaouej also made a number of comments on the bridge pension, but this had already been met by an amendment by the government to extend the bridge pension as an ideal moment until the 2017 tax year, in order to benefit from the lower rate of 8% instead of 33%. An amendment was also tabled by the PS concerning the tax on capital gains on shares and derivative products with an underlying financial or material value. The sp.a also tabled amendments with its own version of the caiman tax. In this context, they took over a number of elements from their legislative proposal to amend the WIB with regard to the tax system of legal constructions. Finally, an amendment was tabled by the majority, which was necessary to allow the new emergency service structure to enter into force on 1 January 2015. This was not to be put at risk. This was in short the report on the last articles discussed in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. This part of the programme law was adopted by 10 votes in favour, 4 against and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u6	Thank you, Mrs Wouters. Are there any rapporteurs who would like to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u7	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u8	Mr Piedboeuf, Mrs Lijnen, Mrs Detiège, Mr Friart, Mrs Vanheste, Mrs Becq and Mrs Fonck also refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget has already made it possible to point out the weaknesses of your political plans. For my part, I have noted the highly questionable nature of the evaluation of some of your recipes. I will not go back to that point. Today, I would like to deepen the examination of your tax measures. I'll start, if you don't mind, with the secret committees. On this point, your program bill is a pretty good illustration of your tax policy in general. Even as the newspapers draw attention, in their titles, to the extent of aggressive tax planning, and perhaps even tax fraud with Luxembourg Leaks, you decide to send a message that is at the opposite end of the necessary objective, namely the fight against tax fraud. Indeed, the special contribution of 309% on the amounts paid occultly, whether in the case of work in the black, payments to tax havens or undeclared occult profits, is intended to deter tax and social fraud. It is, of course, compensatory since it compensates public finances for the loss of income tax, corporate tax, but it also compensates for losses in social contributions. I say "dissuade" since, when the special contribution is currently applied, the sums concerned are deductible. The same applies to the contribution itself in the year in which it was paid. It is therefore necessary to tell all those who would be tempted to organize a fraudulent circuit that they must be careful because the game is not worth the candle. But, with your project of reducing to 100% and, in some cases, to 50%, this special contribution, you are nullifying this very useful mechanism in the fight against tax fraud. You remove its compensatory character with regard to social contributions. You say this explicitly in the explanatory memorandum. In other words, you are no longer seeking to compensate for the loss of social security contributions to state funds of these amounts paid in a hidden way, whether they are work in the dark or undeclared occult profits. You also deprive the tax administration of an instrument allowing it to have a graduated palette in terms of reaction to the situations it encounters. Indeed, for everyone who knows the practice, the administration can approach a reorganization in different ways, all legal of course, depending on the seriousness of the facts, depending on the complexity of the circuits and also on the willingness of the actors concerned to seek an agreement with the tax administration. But you do something even more serious, which gives a scent of scandal to your measure. You decide to apply this reduction retroactively. You want to apply it to ongoing litigation and litigation. In other words, disputes that can go back to three years, an ordinary period of taxation, or even to seven years if tax fraud indicators have been notified to the taxpayers concerned. What is the volume of the dispute concerned? I asked you the question in committee, but I did not get any answer. This could amount to considerable amounts and you have told us that you have to do so, because the special 309 per cent contribution is repressive, criminal and the general principle states that any modification of a criminal sanction with a view to its softening must be applied immediately, including to ongoing litigation and trials. And you sent us back to a ruling of the Constitutional Court that I took the time to go through and that is much more nuanced than you claim. He simply wondered whether the special assessment could give a judge the opportunity to revise it downwards because of its partly repressive nature. Therefore, the ruling of the Constitutional Court that you have invoked to justify the retroactive effect is perfectly questionable in its reference. So I was saying, a scandal to the extent that you are adopting because you are going to create the inequality between the taxpayers who have agreed to pay the special assessment in the face of a tax adjustment and those who have preferred the way of litigation, the way of proceeding to delay the deadline. In addition to being aberrant, in addition to encouraging tax evasion tomorrow, your measure will create inequality between taxpayers. That is why I would like to say to you that, contrary to what you are announcing, you are not going to fight tax fraud, you are going to encourage it with a measure of this nature. This is completely unacceptable. With regard to the liquidation reserve, I would like to recall the measure you are adopting. You expect that the profits that are incorporated into a wind-up reserve will, at the time of this incorporation, receive a contribution of 10%. Then, if a levy takes place on this reserve to distribute dividends within five years, an additional 15% household discount is added and, beyond five years, a 5% household discount. In the event of dissolution, the amounts incorporated into this liquidation reserve will no longer be taxed so that the final tax will be 10%, i.e. the contribution paid initially. As the Conseil d'État puts it very well, this measure is in fact aimed at reducing the tax on furniture, no more or less. You have put in place a laundry machine that will allow you to reduce the discount furniture. Why? Because from the moment you allow a discount on furniture as soon as the levy is made beyond five years, you have a discount on furniture by 10% since today, the discount on furniture is 25%, and in your system, beyond a distribution within five years, your discount on furniture will be 15%. So you operated the opposite of a shift tax since you reduced the discount to 15% on the distribution of certain dividends. So I understand all the less those who tell us today that there is in the government agreement, that there is in the budget, that there is in the program law a tax shift. It is the opposite that you do with this measure. The Group of the European People's Party will table an amendment to review this measure; of course our group will support it and vote on it! To see the contrast of your so-called tax shift, I would like to go back to another measure contained in the program law: the non-indexation of tax reductions on replacement income. I would like to tell you that a shift tax is to move taxes on labour income to put it on capital income. Here, you increase taxes on replacement income, pensions, pre-pensions, disability or unemployment benefits. This is this non-indexation on replacement income! You are increasing taxes on taxpayers who, in many cases, are in situations of precariousness and difficulties. That's your shfit tax, it's putting more taxes on those who are already struggling to close their end of the month! It is totally incomprehensible and it removes all credibility from your speech on the tax shift! I'll come back to the tax shift, that'll be my conclusion. Another aspect is the fight against tax fraud and aggressive tax engineering. As I said earlier, Luxembourg Leaks shows us how huge, titaniumous the problem is. When asked here, the Prime Minister said: "We have the solution for Luxembourg Leaks. We have the Cayman tax, the transparency tax." We tried to find it in your program bill. We didn't find her. It was not there: no Cayman tax, no transparency tax. You have found time and energy to draft provisions on the wind-up reserve, on the non-indexation of tax reductions on replacement income. You also found time to reform the tax system of secret commissions. For that, you have had time! But, to make a transparency tax or Cayman tax, there you did not find the time! So it's sent back to the Greek calends. But every day that passes, every week that passes, every month that passes, it is tens of millions of euros, even hundreds of millions of euros that we lose because, as long as you have not legislated, tax fraud and tax engineering continue! The sp.a group has prepared an amendment. He has made the effort to write this text as a follow-up to the work of John Crombez, who is to be commended for the work accomplished here. Of course, we will support this amendment. I was saying, a great absence from your program bill, the tax shift, and it's the most fundamental! Everyone talks about it, including it on the benches of the majority but, at this point, no one has seen it. You even do the opposite! You are taking refuge, in particular the Minister of Budget, behind the tax on stock exchange operations: 80 million euros entered in the budget. That's 80 million out of 3.4 billion euros in effort. Congratulations! You've really done something exceptional here! 80 million! What am I saying? Barely half because half of this yield already comes from a previously adopted base. It's obviously ridiculous and I don't see how you can today justify your lack of confidence in this area, by multiplying the speeches that induce a cacophony within the government where even a pussy would not find her little ones. It's time to get you back together. We can explain it to you. You can't hear us. So for you to finally understand, I'm going to try to make a detour by a little learned word, not by pedantry, but rather by telling me that maybe that's the way. Have you ever heard of antiperistasis? Antiperistasis is the coexistence of two phenomena, one of which reinforces the other. Indeed, it is absolutely unfair, you will agree, to bring the bulk of the efforts of sanitation by the middle class, pensioners, beneficiaries; to make an index jump that will cost thousands of euros over a full career; while on the other hand you refuse to ask for the greatest fortunes, to actively fight against the great tax fraud. Yeah, I'm using a bit of a learned word. I use a learned word to describe what you are doing, that is, to caress the most privileged in the sense of hair, to preserve them from your tax policy. This contrasts with your lack of tax justice and social justice from the moment you attack those who have the most difficulties in our country: the workers and the beneficiaries. That's the antiperistasis. But here too, we give you the opportunity to correct the shot. We are tabling an amendment to introduce a tax on capital gains on shares. Of course, we will predict different rates depending on the nature of the surplus-value and when it is resold, in order to differentiate the short-term from the long-term in order to determine the speculative nature. I hope you will have the courage to support it and finally give body to those in your house who say that it is high time to make a tax shift, and of which I understood that, according to some, they were not pedal in the same direction as some other parties of the majority. I call for coherence; I call for political courage. We will table a text, we ask you to support it and we will see who wants a tax shift in this country and above all who does not want it. In terms of justification, why should this tax shift be made? First of all, because it's right to do it. See page 106 of the budget overview. I'm not making up anything. This table shows that in your tax policy, 70% of taxes are based on labour income and household consumption, which is itself financed by labour income. I say: 70%; even though the share of wages in the wealth produced does not exceed 50%. It is also fair because when we read the report of the National Bank published in September 2013, we can also see an unequal distribution of assets, where we see that 60% of the assets are concentrated in the hands of 20% of people. What explains this unequal distribution of wealth? It is in particular the lack of taxation on capital gains that inequalities are repeated from generation to generation and even reinforced. Fair but also economically efficient! Because this is the missed opportunity for your government. You could, through this programme law, have made a major reform that would have made it possible to considerably reduce taxes on labour income, increase the disposable income of households and do so within the framework of budgetary neutrality by going looking for capital income, especially capital gains. That would have supported domestic demand, which you have minimized in the debates, Mr. Minister of Finance. While the National Bank shows that 70%, if we take the angle of net export value added, our economy is a domestic economy. I do not want to say that we must not support exports, but, for that, we must do what you have not done. Research and innovation must be supported. We need to improve the quality of our economic fabric. Companies need to be encouraged to join the high-value-added sectors of the future, which will create highly skilled jobs as well as lower-skilled indirect jobs. You have not done so, unlike the previous government in which professional discount exemptions were made on business researchers, the innovation and research tax credit, the increased deduction for investments in research and development, where a special tax scheme for patent revenues was introduced, i.e. a total of EUR 1 billion for research and innovation! It's bearing fruit. The committee itself says so, as we can see that, over a decade since 2002, progress has been made in the relationship between research and innovation and GDP. This is not enough yet. We need to do more and better, but this way, you do not follow it, while basically this is where there is a competitiveness deficit. As you insist on seeing only wage competitiveness in order to transfer the wage bill to the profits of businesses, I refer you to section 110 of the general budget statement, which shows how you move from the primary income of individuals and workers to the profits of businesses. Through your programme law, you are developing a random economic policy, an economic policy that is not up to the stakes and which unfortunately ignores the fundamental issues that are now required by the economic urgency of recovery. This, I believe, is what characterizes your government's policy: a tragic misdiagnosis that does not meet the requirements of recovery! In conclusion, it is important to address inequalities and pursue a redistribution tax policy. I have explained to you the inconclusive nature of our compulsory levy structure, which is too labour-intensive and not sufficiently capital- and speculative. Reducing inequality is right in itself, and I'm not going to try to convince you, but it's also good for economic growth. Economists have established a link between these notions. I can send you the references, even from the IMF, to tell you everything. There is a relationship between the resorption of inequalities, redistribution and sustainable growth. It's something I think you're getting away from. It's something you don't believe in, but it's attested to by serious and constant analyses. More fundamentally, redistribution allows us to build a social, cultural and educational framework that will enable Belgium to count on all its talents and all its children. It is at this price that it will be able to develop and that it will be able to rely, through a qualitative improvement of its economic, social and educational fabric, on all talents. Belgium needs its children, Minister, it needs all its children!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u10	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group supports the government and certainly also the proposed fiscal programme law. Mr Calvo, we approved the budget yesterday. I'm reading the Latest News today: Five calculations of impact on income. Well, it is -8 euros. We have been working on this for months. In committee, we approved the flat-rate deduction for professional costs, for 2015 at half speed and for 2016 at cruising speed. All what our group has said on the basis of the figures of the National Bank, namely that in 2018, the Belgian's disposable income would be reduced by 0.4%, is now confirmed by the Prime Minister's figures, which have produced a number of tables. This shows that anyone earning around 2 000 euros gross per month will receive an extra in 2016 and that anyone earning more than 2 500 euros gross, due to the measure related to the flat-rate professional costs which goes down. In the end, we are talking about very limited amounts. After all that we have heard in the debate, including on the tax programme law, on flat-rate professional costs and on wage indexation, we have also discussed the tables with their graduation, and I regret that this has only just come up, that all the reorganisation policy is corrected by the index by flat-rate professional costs. There are important arguments for this. The index gap will lead to a reduction in staff costs for companies, which will lead to higher profits in a first phase. Without higher profits, there will be no investment, because today's profits are tomorrow's investments and the jobs of the day after tomorrow. The same applies to the index jump. That is for a part the philosophy in the program law. And today we have figures, which all confirm that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u11	Mr Van Rompuy, I understand that the government is alluding you itself to serious repairs, but at the same time you are waving the accounts of the Prime Minister himself, who actually indicate that the citizens will hardly feel anything. It's one or the other. You have been crying out for weeks that you are cleaning up, and then today you come up with the message that it's all nothing twice and that it's not bothering anyone. It's one or the other. Explain that to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u12	There are two aspects. The aspect I am talking about is competitiveness. This competitiveness must be improved, i.e. personnel costs must be controlled in one way or another. That's actually the philosophy of index jump. It will also be the philosophy of the reduction of social security contributions to be introduced next year. That's a case. A second issue is the budget itself, in which we have to move from a deficit of 3% to a balance in 2018. These are rehabilitation measures, both in the departments and in social security. I therefore believe that this is absolutely not a contradiction. However, the two must be done. (Protests from Mr Vanvelthoven) I didn't say that the ordinary citizen wouldn't pay anything. What we have always heard in committee is that this index jump would mean a fundamental reduction in purchasing power. Well, I say to you that today, by adopting the Tax Programme Act, we are making a correction with the increase in the flat-rate professional costs, which means that there may be no surrender in 2015 and 2016. Mr Vanvelthoven, let me clarify why I am really disappointed. In committee, we discussed the subject for weeks. We have received all the figures and have been able to exchange arguments for and against. A final conclusion has also been reached. I'll give you that conclusion. There is a match for these two measures and, of course, a piece will have to be handed in, but that will ultimately be very limited. The reorganisations we have to do in the budget are another matter. You do not dispute that these reforms must be carried out. As Mrs Temmerman has already said, Europe is asking us to reduce the structural deficit. There must therefore be structural savings. The Court of Auditors has said that interventions in pensions and unemployment are structural measures which are important and necessary to strike a balance. So you're confusing two things here.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u13	Mr Van Rompuy, you are causing confusion. You yourself say that there is a match between two things, on the one hand there is the index jump decided by the government and on the other hand there is the increase in the flat-rate professional costs. There's a match, you say, because one of them takes the other. If that's the case, then why do you do it? After all, I thought that the index jump was necessary to reduce the wage burden on businesses. That's what I thought. However, you say that it is not and that the index jump is offset by the flat-rate professional costs. If that is compensated there, then you cannot use the same money again for the reduction of the wage burden. So you're turning people in front of the eyes. You refer to a very important source, especially the government itself, the Prime Minister who comes up with figures. That is the source that has to show that we have had a few euros chatting about ocharm over the last few weeks. You can use the pennies either for the reduction of the wage burden or for the increase of the flat-rate professional costs. It's one or the other, not both.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u14	Mr Van Rompuy, I have also read the Latest News. In any case, I note that we did not get the figures we asked the Prime Minister yesterday and apparently the Last News did.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u15	I regret that, too. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u16	We already agree on that. You also say that the picture is not that bad when the exercise is made of the index jump and the flat-rate deduction. However, these are not the only two measures taken by the government. In this sense, I can only endorse Mr Terwingen's analysis of this morning in De Morgend, namely that people are turning in heavy. Of course, you have done much more than just the index jump and the flat-rate deduction. You have saved EUR 1.4 billion in social security in one year. You're pushing up the people's electricity bill. You're building up public services. It is just that sum that brings our group to the conclusion that our criticism is that the ordinary working people pay unfairly and disproportionately much for the fiscal effort. As far as the debate on the index jump is concerned, we believe that it is not the most effective measure, that it reduces purchasing power and that there are other ways of reducing wage burdens. The whole debate on the tax shift will then be revisited. I am therefore absolutely at ease with what is in the Latest News. You've made many more decisions. That makes the government's injustice. There were alternatives for the index jump. People's purchasing power should not be cut off in order to deal with the burden of wages. We have to deal with wage costs, not people's wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u17	Gentlemen Calvo and Vanvelthoven, the index jump serves to make wages rise less in the private sector. That money will therefore remain in the companies. This will allow EUR 2.5 billion to remain in companies. The question, then, is what they are doing with it. Mr Bonte, if we do not reduce the wage burden, companies will not be able to make any more profits and they will not have any money to invest. Mrs Temmerman, if we do not accept the ABC of the economy, we cannot discuss it. The discussion on the flat-rate reduction of costs is a budgetary matter. The government will achieve a flat-rate deduction of 900 million euros via taxes in 2016. The index jump, which is indeed a kind of income moderation, is compensated through the tax system by raising the flat-rate professional costs. That is why we need to look at this together. It can't be seen on one side without the other. This demonstrates the accuracy of this government's economic policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u18	Mr President, Mr Van Rompuy, you are forgetting in your list the benefit recipients who are also economically important, especially in terms of purchasing power and internal demand. You are only looking at the effect of an index jump at the level of business. We can discuss the effects of this measure for a long time. Your group has asked one political question, which must be addressed by business, especially jobs. There had to be a job guarantee. Before we push the voting button, I have a question. What about that warranty? Where are the guarantees on jobs? Or are you really going to push the button and give the business community a blank cheque, knowing that a lot of companies' domes are already telling us today that they cannot make any commitment to employment? That is the political question that I believe is before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u19	I would like to talk about the ABC of the economy and I would much rather talk about the ABCD of the economy, the D of dividends. We're sure of that. We learned from the FPS Finance analysis about the index jump that income from corporation tax will increase significantly in his estimation. We already know that impact. That's guaranteed. More income from corporation tax, because more profit will be made. But what guarantee do you have that these profits will generate new investments? You don't have one. You would have had it if you had another way of dealing with the burden of wages, if, as in our alternative budget, you were looking for resources by means of a tax shift for a reduction in the burden of wages by reducing the employer's contribution, because you would at least know that the money you invest in it is linked to a job. However, you do not have that link. The result is that Mr Peeters has to do his rounds at the VBO and at Voka, saying at the domes that we have now taken that difficult measure of the index jump and that we have been in the pockets of the people, and that they can please turn that into jobs, on which they will replicate that they cannot give that guarantee. All this because you have opted for the inefficient and unbalanced measure of the index jump instead of a wage reduction as we had proposed in our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u20	My problem is that you want to apply an index jump and that you think you will create jobs with it. I can understand that, but I don't agree. However, what I do not agree with is that what was admitted by the government two months ago, namely that this would affect people's purchasing power, is now denied in a political debate. Six weeks ago, the government admitted that this would be the case, now that it is no longer the case. Let's be serious. Firstly, who pays the flat-rate deduction in the tax field? Those are still the workers, the servants and workers in our country, by increasing excise duties and VAT. So you pay through another bag after all. Secondly, as you know, wages also finance pensions and paid leave. The index will also have an impact on a very different part of the purchasing power of workers and servants depending on wages. I agree with Mr Calvo on creating jobs. Yesterday we put forward the figure of 48 billion profits for the top 1 000 companies. In the form of dividends, 50.2% of that money simply goes to the shareholders. You have no guarantee that this money will serve the creation of jobs. Let's stop moving on like that. We will neither create jobs nor create a gap in social security and taxation, Mr Van Rompuy, so let's show the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u21	Mr President, I would like to add a small word to everything that has been said here on this side of the hemisphere and with which I absolutely agree. The majority always claims that everything from that index jump is compensated. More than that, it throws out that people will have more. However, you forget two categories. These are pensioners, who have no professional costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u22	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u23	That's okay. Mr Van Biesen, you don't mind. Pensioners should no longer be cared for in this country. The fact that they are losing their purchasing power is not a bad thing either. Mr Van Biesen, there are also pensions that are not high. Maybe that won't be your pension. However, many people here in Belgium have low pensions. They will therefore not be compensated. Mr Van Rompuy, I only mention two categories now, although there are others. A second category is the category of people who become unemployed. Today is the last working day at Ford Genk. You will also forget the workers there who are unemployed the day after tomorrow. There is no compensation for them, either in the professional costs or in the compensations that you have included in the scheme and which would, so to speak, neutralize the index jump. The compensation for them is zero. Dareing to say in this gallery that all people will win is really scandalous.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u24	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, I did not say...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u25	Wait a minute, there are several Members who would like to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u26	Mr President, we are talking about the company, we are talking about entrepreneurs, but many of us do not know how a company works, especially an SME. It is still the economic fabric of our country! And I can assure you that at the SME level, this money, which will be recovered thanks to the index jump, will be used well! On the one hand, this money will make it possible to be much more competitive, both in our internal market and especially in exports. For SMEs, the important thing is to be able to export. They will thus be able to produce an additional volume and, consequently, employment will be created. On the other hand, it will also create cash flow, with which these companies will be able to invest more. By investing, they will again create jobs and bring other companies to work. This snowball effect will increase in the coming years. It's important! It is not always to be believed that the entrepreneur is only trying to take money. It is there to develop its business, to create competitiveness, to create employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think this debate is incredibly revealing the fundamental contradiction between the opposition and the majority. The majority does not assume that there is a contradiction between the interests of companies and job creation. The opposition seems to see a fundamental contradiction, but we do not agree with that. [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u28	In fact, the excitement that we are now witnessing shows this. As a general rule, companies employ staff whenever they are also made possible. It is absolutely not forbidden for companies to make profits, so that they have room to create jobs. Here, too, the word "purchasing power destruction" is used quite conveniently. Apparently, it is forgotten that any job that can be created by creating space creates a huge purchasing power gain. Every person who finds a job actually means thousands of euros in purchasing power gains for that person. That is what this government is committed to. Contrary to the left, we do not believe that one can impose jobs as an oekaze or as some form of five-year plan. Give space and believe that companies and employment are not exclusive quantities.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u29	Mr De Roover, your plea not to turn people against each other is touching. I note that, because that will certainly be useful to you in other debates. It is precisely because we are convinced that it is indeed important to help people get a job, that we advocate a different method of dealing with the pay-disability that exists, which I do not dispute. Indeed, it cannot be decreed that profits should be converted into job creation. There is another way of reducing wage costs, in particular by working on the employer's contribution, and it is well known that the millions of people who circulate, who are being invested and for which an effort is being made, lead to job creation. That is the method we advocate, just because we believe that jobs need to be created and that this is important for purchasing power. If you really believe that, then you would not have chosen the index jump that serves profits, whose question is whether they will be reinvested. Then you would have chosen the method that we have been strongly advocating in this House for a few weeks, just to link employers and employees in an efficient way.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u30	I would like to add one more element, Mr Van Rompuy. It is suggested that the whole left side is not in favour of a wage reduction. Of course, that's not true. We have said this every time. We know that there is a problem and we absolutely want to reduce labour costs. By the way, under the previous government, there has already been a serious reduction in wage costs. What is this government doing, Mr Van Rompuy? It's a part of it that's screwing it back. I have already asked the question a few times, both in this gallery and in committee, what wage cuts this government is still doing before 2015, except for the index jump that will only take place in July. The answer is zero.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u31	2.5 billion euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u32	The reduction in the wage burden foreseen by the previous government, which was not paid by an index jump but by the collection of fraud, is delaying this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u33	Mr President, I would like to make a few remarks. We have to stop thinking that we are in a binary society where there are the bad defenders of the bad unemployed, bad recipients, and the good defenders of the good workers, and SME leaders, etc. There is not a single government, there is only one politician in Belgium who is not in favour of job creation, or I have misread all the programmes or I am confronted with people who are falsely lying. It is clear that the will to create employment is common to all. At the economic level, it is certain that the more income you have, the more you consume. Everyone knows that. It is a statistical and economic reality. The more income you have, the more you spend. This is obviously valid up to a certain level. At some point, you can't eat more than you can eat every day. Nevertheless, it is known that the curve is exponential as incomes increase. On the other hand – and it is at this level that we make a complaint and that I have the feeling that we are living in the country of the Bisounours – we must not believe that by reducing wage costs in a linear way, we will automatically create jobs. It is at this level that we cast doubt. We are not against SMEs, the companies that need them. But the linear way in which you do this means that companies that need a little money to hire additional staff at some point don't get it more important than multinationals who will only do one thing, i.e. earn more profits and, therefore, more dividends. That is what we are calling into question. You tell us not to worry, that there is no problem, that companies will automatically hire when they see their salary costs reduced. That was not the way to proceed. We had to go to some particular niches. We know that the internal market is what it is. The wage burden on the internal market will not be specifically changed. On the other hand, the wage burden on export markets is known to be significant. It was therefore necessary to put double bites at this level rather than targeting the internal market. The great difficulty of the latter is social dumping. That's the last one to fight. How far are wages going to go? It will never be possible to lower the wage costs to compete with the wages of Poles or Portuguese, or even non-Europeans who come to work at home. That is where the problem lies. It was on social dumping that it was appropriate and always necessary to work on specific niches to help companies in need. These are the ones we want to help, those who really need the means to hire additional staff. We do not want linear measures that affect all companies indifferently.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u34	I won't take everything from a to z. I am standing here for the first time in 20 years and I would like to confront the opposition, but I will conclude with Mr Mathot's question. In the 1980s and 1990s, experience has shown, whatever the composition of governments, that at certain times, often every ten years, something needs to be done to correct competitiveness in one way or another. This was the case at the beginning of the 1990s with Dehaene's global plan. That's what the health index was in, which also got some serious criticism. In the 1980s there were three index jumps. If this competitiveness is to be radically improved on a number of points, then the international economic situation must also be included. Let's hope so. The fall in oil prices has led me to read positive reports for the first time in months. Then one can take that trend as an open economy. Is there a mathematical certainty? There is a mathematical certainty. If one is not competitive, one loses jobs and industries leave. That is the case, the industry must be competitive. Conversely, if we restore profitability, there is of course no guarantee in black and white. The economy is learning, however, that there are many economists here who say that tomorrow's investments are built on today's profits. Why shouldn't the big companies invest? If they don't invest, they disappear. This has been one of the major problems facing industry in the last 15 years. It's the ones that keep investing, the ones that remain. We have already had the discussion in committee. The philosophy of the government is not to give this or that gift, it wants to make sure that the basic conditions for economic revival are fulfilled. Moreover, we are bound by European obligations. Yesterday, Prime Minister Michel admitted at the European Summit that more action should be taken in the coming months if we are to meet our European commitments. One can do this through massive tax increases, which Green wants. That party wants to fill the gaps for 80% or 90% with tax increases for as much as 8 to 9 billion. Or one can also save money. The savings in the departments and in social security are of course not painless. I never said that. I started by saying that two aspects must be weighed against one another.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u35	Let Mr Mathot speak for a moment and then you can finish your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u36	Mr President, I do not contradict him. I am not telling you that we must not be competitive and that we must not make any effort. I'm just telling you that we need to target. Here I give you an example that I know well, ArcelorMittal. Over the whole of Europe, Belgian workers were actually a little more expensive than the others, but one systematically forgot one fact: they were much more productive. When the two data were collected, it became clear that the Belgian workers of ArcelorMittal were the best in the group at European level. That was the reality. Did this prevent ArcelorMittal from leaving? So stop believing in automaticity. This is really the country of the Bisounours: to say that by reducing the burdens tomorrow, we are going to create thousands of jobs, that is totally wrong! There is no evidence of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u37	Mr Van Rompuy, I think you are going a little bit crazy. You are suggesting that some Members of Parliament would not be convinced that we should improve our competitiveness. You are also suggesting that we have no regard for the current competition problem. You refer to 1993, to the global plan and the powers of attorneys. We could be engaged in this discussion for a long time, but even at the three index jumps in the early 1980s, when we were in the opposition as well, a series of powers of attorneys were taken. We can also discuss the method for a long time, but its content included job creation. Even today, especially at Flemish level, there are powers of attorneys active in order to create employment and stimulate companies to create jobs. My question, which I asked earlier, is where the balance is. You say that this is not a philosophical discussion about giving gifts to employers and nothing on the other side, but I wonder where the balance is. A few weeks ago, I heard Deputy Prime Minister Peeters pleading for more balance. I have heard your group leader repeatedly argue that the efforts required by the workers, in terms of the index and purchasing power, must be guaranteed in terms of employment. I ask you where are those additional measures that your party has called for. I'll say even more. You were just wandering around with the front page of some newspaper. You should ask yourself why it is in the newspaper today that CD&V is on De Wever's luggage carrier. Do you think that's a coincidence? The more you ask for compensation, the more you will be on the luggage carrier. Don't worry, you'll end up in the fast ties. If he doesn't need you anymore, he'll dump you. That is the political truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u38	Mr Bonte, we will decide for ourselves who is on the luggage carrier and who is on the bike. Do you think CD&V is on a luggage carrier?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u39	Mr Van Rompuy, with all due respect, it is very difficult to make it clear that you are driving CD&V today. The fact that people are suggesting today, and not just Mr De Wever but a lot of people, that you are sitting on the luggage carrier, you owe it to yourself, to the government agreement and to the budget. To be honest, I am a little tired of you quoting in part from our alternative budget. I won't let you call it an inflation of taxes. I will go over the list one more time with you: 1.5 billion cuts in the burden on employees, 1.5 billion cuts in the burden on employers, 300 million investments to allow employers to invest in quality jobs, nearly 3 billion cuts in the burden on our SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u40	Mr Calvo, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u41	Our plan is what you're trying to achieve, but what's not working at the moment, making people say you're on the luggage carrier. So stop saying that we are in favour of taxes. We are in favour of other taxes, whatever you do but are not realized.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u42	Mr Van Rompuy, I always hear you talk about employment. The government speaks all the time of employment. I am not convinced that this government, which is the government of the FEB and the Voka, really wants to create jobs. I'll give you three things. Firstly, for the last 20 years, social contributions have been reduced since the early 1990s. At first, 700 million. Today, we are at 7 billion reductions in social contributions. Ten times more. Has unemployment declined? No. Secondly, you are talking about employment, but the budget you voted yesterday reduces public employment massively. Tens of thousands of public jobs will be eliminated by your policy. Don't say you want to defend the job. Thirdly, last night, at 5:39 a.m., we were only fifteen in this House, Minister Bacquelaine said that there would be a serious problem for 2030: a shortage of labour. It's a great disaster! And that's how you justify pensions? Shortage of labour because for the employer you are defending, it is a matter of putting as many workers on the labour market as possible in order to reduce wages. You are not the advocates of the job; you are the fosseurs of the job!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u43	Mr President, everyone has their opinion. I would like to say two more things. Firstly, we will approve this tax programme law. There is no doubt that there is a certain tax shift here; otherwise certain measures would not be so strongly contested. Our group leader has said that there will be new moments in the coming months. The economy is evolving, Mr. Bonte. Today we are talking about a growth of 1%, perhaps this will be 3 % tomorrow. No one can predict what will happen in terms of employment. There will be times when the budget will have to be re-evaluated. The return on a number of measures will also have to be considered. The stock market fee is included in this law. The banking tax will be decided in March. Everyone agrees that we need to see how we can introduce the caiman tax, so that he can actually do something. All this will be on the table in the coming months. Mr Calvo, if you have listened carefully, you will also have noticed that the discussion on capital taxes has not shown on small or medium-sized assets that the capital gains tax will come on the table. There are many formulas in this area and besides our party, N-VA and Open Vld are also willing to talk about this. The question is under what conditions this should be done. We do not agree on this at the moment, but a more equitable taxation is in any case on the agenda of this government. I read in the press today that CD&V would not ride along but that we would be on luggage carrier with our foot between spokes. I can assure you, and I call to witness to my fellow Members of the N-VA, that CD&V in the various committees and in Parliament is in a totally correct and loyal way fulfilling budgetary policy. We do not accept, Mr Penris, that someone from Antwerp has come to lecture us, we who have spent weeks...[Applause from the opposition] Mr Vanvelthoven, your applause will not mean that the policy I have defended here, which we support and for which Kris Peeters is trying to develop a social basis, will not continue. Recently, a book was published by Professor Galbraith's son. You should read that instead of just reading Piketty. He says that in a modern European economy, the policy of rehabilitation is inevitable. He says, as a former Keynesian, that monetary financing, with additional public spending or with a blind increase in purchasing power, will not restore the economy. He says: there must be a restoration, but this must be done in a spirit of solidarity. Well, we'll be... in the next few months, Mrs. Pehlivan, don't make any illusions, you'll be in opposition for another four and a half years. This government will last at least five more years. Beke and Verherstraeten are not ready to pull the plug on the Swedish coalition, should you have that illusion, and I have the impression that you are starting to get a little hope. CD&V will ensure that there is social support for the reorganisation measures. It hurt you to read today that the index jump will not really change the purchasing power so much that it does not mean that much. We're trying to take responsibility. We are trying to do that in difficult circumstances. We are trying to do so in our own way. This government has a government program. The proof is that yesterday's budget was approved, that today's fiscal programme law will be adopted. Charles-Ferdinand Nothomb zei ooit het volgende in de commissie: "It is only votes that count".
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the agreement is that we will vote at 7 p.m. I can rest assured that this is the same for me, but I note that we are currently consuming the time of other fellow Members who wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u45	Mr President, this is my first speech in this debate. I listened with interest to Mr Van Rompuy, chairman of the Finance and Budget Committee. He has brought to witness the positive cooperation that CD&V argues. Mr Van Rompuy, will you repeat that question when the gentleman sitting up there in the corner is also in the Chamber? Ask Mr De Wever if he also believes that CD&V is working in a really positive way in this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u46	The problem with CD&V is that it cooperates far too positively with this government. That's the problem with CD&V. Indeed, Mr Van Rompuy, it is only the votes that count. The fact that you, as a middle party, have approved such an unbalanced budget is indeed what matters. The fact that you are supporting this coalition agreement is what matters. The fact that you continue to wow about the tax shift for the rest is indeed of much less importance. You say you won't let the mayor of Antwerp teach you the lesson, but it's too late. It's too late. You're already running his program. You have already decided on his index jump. You have already implemented the 1.4 billion for social security. And you'll have to get started on the tax shift. It's too late!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u47	Mr Calvo, this government is going on for about 70 days. Five years is about 1 800 days. Well, then it's up to you to judge this government, not after 70 days. Green proposed yesterday to solve all social problems by 8,5 billion in tax increases, by abolishing a number of regional taxes...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u48	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u49	Mr. Calvo, be patient. Try to explain to the public that you will create new jobs, that you will create employment and clean up public finances through your plan to raise taxes by EUR 8.5 billion and do nothing in terms of competitiveness and savings. Mr Calvo, I thought the wollen socks were dead. I knew Ludo Dierickx to start all alone in Parliament. I thought that was over. I thought you were the modern open green party, but you didn't learn anything after what I heard yesterday. History has taught you nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u50	Mr. Chairman, I'm starting to get tired of the CD&V, which says, "Leave us, we're only two months old." We, the opposition, objectively, almost deny you peace, in comparison with the cacophony of your majority. Who put Kris Peeters in difficulty in relation to the taxation of capital gains? It's not us, it's the majority! Who caused it by announcing that they wanted to abolish the wages of the bosses beyond 290,000 euros? It's not us, it's Alexander De Croo. Who says today that the CD&V is already, without having proved itself, the concern of this government? It's not us, it's Bart De Wever. Please, at least have the decency of some consistency. The times are hard, we know. The efforts to be made are difficult. Be at least a little consistent with yourself. When someone tries to enter into a social concertation - and Kris Peeters seems sincere to me - his greatest problem does not come from the opposition, but from his discordant majority; his majority does not speak with one voice and his majority provokes all the social partners. Of course, that's not my problem! The majority are experiencing this problem. I'm not the one who says that CD&V is a concern. I'm not the one talking about the ceiling of 290,000 euros. When Mr. Van Overtveldt proposes an opening on the taxation of capital gains, it is not I who react, but it is the mayor of Antwerp who reframes it the same evening. Then the same mayor changes his mind. When a message is difficult to convey, it is important to remain consistent with yourself!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u51	Mr President, I would simply like to add a small word to this brilliant speech to Mr. Van Rompuy. Mr. Van Rompuy, your statement was extremely important, but you are, at the same time, in the traditional position of the CD&V. He just got a slap on a cheek. What does he then do directly? He's tending the other cheek. A piece of advice. Be careful! You'll never be the head of Turk of the N-VA. It's the PS! On the other hand, you could quickly become the slam head of the N-VA, and this can hurt very much!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u52	Mr Van Rompuy, you are concerned that we are still the same party as we were 30 years ago. It is better to take a consistent course as a party than to be no longer recognizable as a party. Even your closest colleagues from the CdH, your fellow Christian Democrats, no longer recognize you as a middle party and do not understand at all that, after having had to swallow so much substance, you also accept that you are being humiliated politically. You're called upon to stay in your barn and not have that much talk. You say here today that you have had enough of that. We see day after day that CD&V is not respected by its partners in the majority. When will we hear, Mr Van Rompuy, a strong language of CD&V, that she no longer tolerates this and now wants fiscal reform? When are you gonna speak big language instead of all that crap?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u53	It is the first time in my political life that someone blames me for not using a strong language. [[Hilarity]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of clarity, I would like to highlight a basic point: the views of political parties are not explained by journalists who present a story in which they interpret one or the other. These views will be confirmed in the vote on a concrete political project. Then you will determine whether or not the majority is a unity. Yesterday, when the budget was adopted, you were able to see that the majority is a unity. I have the silent suspicion that it will soon be confirmed that nothing will be changed and that CD&V, the MR, Open Vld and the N-VA are united behind the same political project. Mr Calvo, I suggest that you spend the next 4.5 years convincing the public of the virtue of your alternative. In the meantime, we will do what needs to be done today, in full agreement with the four coalition partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u55	Mr President, I would like to agree with Mr Wathelet's remarks regarding Mr Peeters. Indeed, the work it does embodies the will of the whole government to move forward and to achieve a concertation that can bear fruit that we all expect, even beyond the majority. Mr Wathelet, you are right, this work is essential for us. I would also like to thank Mr. Van Rompuy for reminding the rostrum of what unites us, completely in this majority, with the obsession we have to create jobs. Of course, Mr Mathot, we do not have the same methods. But I share what you said: we all want to create jobs. We believe that the methods we use under this government program will bear fruit. Thank you, Mr Van Rompuy, for reminding us of our unity, our will and I ask you, as far as possible, not to wait another twenty years before going back to this rostrum. We enjoyed listening to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u56	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will bring a little serenity, as we approach Christmas. The tricky Edgar Faure once said, "This is how immobilism moves forward, and we don't know how to stop it." That is what threatened our country if a government like this had not been formed. Part of the policy needed to be changed. Partly because the previous government led a centre-right policy, and it was high time! This new government, innovative in its composition, has decided to refine choices, to go further in the options and to resolutely opt for a policy of economic recovery, job creation, consolidation of public finances, guarantee of our pension and social security systems. During these few weeks, we have heard a number of comments, comments and criticisms, sometimes based on incantatory methods and based, as the case may be, on reports from the Court of Auditors, the National Bank, the OECD, the IMF, etc. However, Mr Nollet, these organizations, real partners, are not judges, they do not render sentences – contrary to what we heard yesterday. They provide advice to help manage and lead to the goals we have set ourselves. On the basis of excerpts, each of the members (of the opposition) tried to accredit the argument that the bases of our budget would be wrong, the revenues would have been overvalued and the expenses necessary for the proper functioning of our State and our public services could not be covered.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u57	Mr. Piedboeuf, do you know who said that the Court was not the study department of the MR, that it was a serious body and that it had to be followed?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u58	It's a serious body.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u59	Who said so?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u60	I have no idea. I don't have your talent as a historian.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u61	He's an MR MP, Mr.Bouchez in the Walloon Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u62	All right, but it's an advisory body.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u63	No, his words are, "We have to follow what they tell us."
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u64	We're not talking about the accounts here, we're talking about the budget! It is an advisory body, I repeat. And Belgium is one of the only countries to allow this type of examination. All public or private managers know this, at least when they are serious. As careful and precise as it may be in its drafting, a budget is also a bet that revenues will be higher and expenditures will be lower. It was voted yesterday and that is a very good thing. After less than 70 days, the government will be able to speed up the pace of work. Today we have to adopt the programme law to enable it to implement this policy which, I repeat, aims to restore purchasing power, to favour those who work, which aims at economic recovery and job creation – we all agree, I have just heard – while committing ourselves to achieving structural fiscal balance in 2018 and to respecting European indications in terms of deficit. By this law, the government will give consumers and investors the signal that spending and income agree, that the path of perpetual debt is abandoned, that neither the State nor the administration will live beyond their means, that they will instead concentrate their efforts on development projects for the benefit of the population. The socially corrected index jump aims to support the private sector in job creation. Starting in 2015, tax measures will be applied to labour income through an increase in the deductible flat-rate charges. We've talked a lot about it. Because the burden on work is too high, by voting this program law, you will blow up this fiscal straitjacket and set the first step in a new balanced vision of taxation. €450 million is entered for 2015; twice in 2016. The tax shift announced will begin on 1 January. This movement will not stop at least throughout this legislature. The majority is willing and collectively willing in this direction. In each of us there is the will to reduce taxation on work, the will to shift to other resources so that everyone contributes according to their means and the work is rewarded. There is no discord on the substance, as some have tried to make it believe, but there is debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u65	Mr. Piedboeuf, if you like Edgar Faure: "It's important to distill a little truth to make a big lie."
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u66	There is no disagreement on the substance. Some have tried to make him believe. There's a debate. And as they say, "From the shock of ideas comes light." We have a sense of debate and dialogue. We do not have a single and cyclopean Marxist vision. The reduction of the taxation of pension savings as a reward for the anticipation of the recipe is a strong and positive signal. The reduction of the special contribution of 309 % is also a signal, not in favour of fraud, but in favour of spontaneous regularisation and in favour of fairer and fairer taxation. We move from the presumption of guilt to the presumption of good faith. Self-employed people, SMEs are no longer seen a priori as fraudsters but as economic partners. Great tax evasion will be the focus of our attention, contrary to what has been proclaimed. The desire for additional revenue and tax justice will be our guide. There is no other sign of prudence in the voted budget. You don't balance a budget with ideology. All parties in the elections and during this session called for tax reform. It will be at the rendezvous, as a result of the policy pursued not of austerity but of the proper allocation of resources. The review of the liquidation bonus system is strongly in favour of SMEs who will be able to benefit from a reduced rate of 10 to 15 %. The government has also incorporated into the programme law an important measure which is of great importance to us for the benefit of the agricultural world by maintaining the tax exemption measure for European premiums. The acceleration of the implementation of the Competitiveness Pact with a discount exemption is also included in this project. The maintenance of reduced VAT rates is in line with support for consumption and the real economy. The increase in the tax on exchange transactions is also included in this law to give the signal of the capital's contribution to budgetary efforts, the first step towards a better profiled contribution. This government has had the credit of courage. He announced, face-to-face, what he was going to do. He's not hiding behind the federated entities. He is not hiding behind Europe. We are going to vote on this programme law with enthusiasm and conviction, and I cannot help but conclude, since we are in the quotations, Mr President, gentlemen and ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, dear Mrs Onkelinx, by quoting from a Marshal of France, Marshal de Lévis. In any case, he is quoted as saying: "criticism is a tax levied by envy on merit". Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u67	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in committee we discussed very extensively the various measures mentioned in the programme law. I shall confine myself today to a number of essential elements for us. I would also like to express some reservations. Firstly, the first thing in the programme law is the increase in the flat-rate professional costs. That's a good measure. There's no discussion about that. It is a measure that is fair. The lowest wages are also the most important. The benefit is also immediately taken into account in the company tax, so that people can make immediate use of it. The measure was adopted unanimously in committee. What strikes me, however, is the finding that the current majority, with the Prime Minister in the lead, pretends that this measure is a softening of all the other measures adopted by the current government. It is ludicrous what is on the front page of the newspaper with which Mr Van Rompuy waved today, namely that we have only discussed eight euros for weeks and weeks. This EUR 8 may apply to a few people, but unfortunately it does not apply to many categories. This one measure, with which the current majority likes to work out, contrasts with many other measures. The index jump has already been addressed here. This index jump will be fully implemented in 2015. The introduction does not take place halfway, such as the increase in flat-rate professional costs, which is only half introduced. The index jump will be fully implemented immediately. Secondly, Minister, certain fiscal expenditures, such as tax reductions, are not indexed. What's it about? It concerns a whole range of tax reductions, such as the tax reduction for pension savings, the exempt first savings book drive, the tax reduction for long-term savings and the tax reduction for employers' shares. I would like to point out once again to the CD&V Group that it is mainly about tax relief for pensions and replacement income. We have seen the FPS Finance Facts, which show that of all tax reductions which are not indexed, 67 percent of the increase for the current government falls just in the category of pensioners and in the category of the unemployed and disabled. These are all people who have had the misfortune of becoming unemployed, disabled or retired. Those are the people who have to cough up two thirds of the 500 million that this should bring to this government over the next few years. That is the category that this government is targeting in the first place. The flat-rate professional costs, colleagues from CD&V, concern the category of working people. This is again not about the category of pensioners, the disabled or the unemployed. These categories, which are generally the weakest in our society, are not offset by the increase in professional costs and, moreover, receive no or lower tax relief. They pay for a very big piece of money for this government. I have not heard about the increase in excise duties either, Mr Van Rompuy. You are only talking about the comparison between the increase in flat-rate costs and the index jump, but there are still increases in excise duties. Who's that going to? Who's gonna pay for that? Who pays the increase in excise duties on alcohol? Who pays the bill? The ordinary people. Who pays the excise duty on coffee? The coffee drinkers. Who pays the excise duty on tobacco, petrol, diesel, electricity? Everyone pays for that. Whether you like it or not, the bill goes to the families and is not compensated by any other measure. If this government boasts that it is giving the working people a tax gift, hip hip hooray, but don't forget to mention that there are a lot of tax increases in this program law that this government, including CD&V, will be very eager to approve. I come to my conclusion on the first element: a tax reduction indeed, but the available income is simply falling because of the index jump and there are also tax increases. On balance, this clearly means that people will pay for this, and I am not talking about the measures taken by the Flemish Government. The people will pay for the reduction in the costs of wages for companies, and that is precisely where the difference lies with the opposition's proposals. If you want a part paid by the index jump, this means that you have a part paid by the employees. In our proposals we would opt for a reduction in employers' contributions so that people's wages, people's disposable income, would not go down. A second element is the tax shift. A great deal has been said and written about this in recent weeks. I recall that both Minister Van Overtveld and the Prime Minister here in the Chair said that the caiman tax would be the real tax shift. I hear Mr Van Rompuy say that the current programme law contains a certain tax shift and he refers to the stock market tax. Apparently, that's the big tax shift this government stands for. All that was announced, and that's not much, isn't going to happen. The bank tax isn't gonna be there right now. The caiman tax was told to get there soon, but she won't be there, maybe next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u68	Sure!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u69	Especially next year, I'd love to hear you say that. Colleagues of CD&V, however, it is at a time like today, when there is a need to vote, that you should try to get the booty. What kind of loot did you collect on tax-shift? Nothing at all. Over the past few weeks and months we heard great words about what should come, but they were whistled back over and over again. We have to note that the programme law now before us at least doesn't bring any of it into the house. I've asked several times when the caiman tax will come. We shall shortly be putting an amendment to the vote, my fellow Members. In committee, I advocated that the majority should take a thorough look at our amendments. I am really convinced that our proposal for a caiman tax is exactly what this majority wants. For example, I have heard Minister Van Overtveldt refer to the Dutch example. Well, our proposal is based on the Dutch example. We therefore invite you to approve this proposal with us. I think I can rest assured to the fellow Members of Open Vld and CD&V that the route has already been deployed under the Di Rupo administration. As of the 2014 tax year, the Di Rupo government had already introduced a reporting obligation in respect of legal constructions and that was the first step. The second step was also agreed in the previous government. We have written the second step in an amendment and tabled it today. The relevant texts have already been prepared by the previous government. What are you waiting for, in other words? There is already a possibility today to approve the Cayman tax. Mr Van Rompuy said earlier that everyone agrees that the caiman tax should be introduced, but what are we waiting for today if we are serious about what we keep saying in the press? Another amendment that the sp.a Group will table concerns an added value tax on shares. A number of majority parties have also regularly applied to this issue. I refer to the two findings made by the Joint Parliamentary Committee in the context of the preparation of fiscal reform. The first is that the Belgian taxpayer is taxed too heavily on labour. Everyone agrees. I come to the second conclusion of the Joint Committee: Belgium has a relatively low tax on capital. Although these conclusions were adopted here, I note that they are constantly disputed by Open Vld and the N-VA. That is strange, because it is not only a finding of the Joint Parliamentary Committee, but also of the Supreme Court of Finance of August 2014, so very recently. I quote from the report: "The main identified room for manoeuvre is the income from property, both real estate and movable. It would allow a significant reduction in the tax burden on labour to be financed." A significant reduction in the tax burden on labour is what we want to do on a wide scale. The proceeds, according to the Supreme Court and not according to the opposition, are EUR 4 billion. Moreover, the OECD says that Belgium is one of the few OECD countries where no tax is currently levied on the added value of shares achieved by natural persons. It would be expected that the majority would do so after these conclusions. I simply note that that is not in the coalition agreement. I also note that, despite the high-pitched words, there is no mention of this in the programme law today. So it stays with a lot of blabla and there is not much concrete in the end. There is only the promise for the next few years to talk about this in the government. Well, ladies and gentlemen of CD&V, speaking should have happened when you were negotiating the coalition agreement. Speaking could have happened in the government when the programme law was being prepared. Apparently, speaking hasn't started yet. Perhaps that started in your own working group within CD&V, Mr Van Rompuy, where you might come to an agreement. It is important that you also discuss this with the other majority parties. That is why we are tabling an amendment on this point. Once again, I say explicitly that this is a tax on capital gains on shares, the proceeds of which must go entirely towards a reduction in the tax on labour. One final point I would like to raise concerns the government's decision to impose corporation tax on intercommunal companies. I don't think it's come up here yet. The argument put forward by the government for this is that it wants to avoid disloyal tax competition. I fully agree that deloyal tax competition should be avoided. Only the question arises as to whether this is the case in the context of the intercommunal system. There are intercommunals who have been given a legal monopoly. Think of the grid operators for electricity, the waste intercommunals and the intercommunals in the framework of crematoria management. Those intercommunals have an assignment that no one else is allowed to perform. Thus, the argument that intercommunals have to pay corporate tax because they are deloyal competition for the private sector simply does not apply here. Yet you will introduce that tax. What's the result of that? You know that very well. The result is that the intercommunals can get into trouble in the first place. I know a number of intercommunalists who are building up reserves to make investments in the future. Well, those reserves will be taxed now. There are intercommunals that make profits and reserve part of the profits to pay their shareholders a dividend, i.e. the municipalities. This means less revenue for the municipalities. In other words, the measure does not solve anything at Belgian level. That is what Europe is saying. The additional revenue that will be received here at federal level is resources that disappear at the local level. If you want to put the budget in order, that decision will ultimately solve nothing at all. The same parties are in the federal and Flemish government, but the measure is contrary to the Flemish government's policy. Just because municipalities are struggling today, they are encouraged to cooperate and carry out assignments together in intercommunals. This way they can work more efficiently, by tackling some issues together rather than individually. Well, with your measure, you will poison the cooperation. The question will arise as to whether we should not continue to work separately in order to avoid corporate tax in this way. Your measure is, in my view, not good; even more, it will cause problems at the local level. Mr President, I have always listened carefully in the Finance Committee. Well, when it came to the measure for intercommunals, CD&V spokesmen consistently underlined that it was not a good measure; they said about the tax shift that it was insufficient. Cayman tax should and should also be introduced, as should employment measures. I constantly had the impression that CD&V supported the opposition's criticism and sometimes even took the lead in it. Mr Van Rompuy, I have listened to you very carefully. You said that what matters is the vote. That's true. What should count is the voice of CD&V. With your voice you let your heart speak. Every three days we hear you screaming something different than what you will decide in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u70	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, this program legislation is the same as the government agreement. She's not fair. It puts the burden on the most fragile. She's redistributing backwards. It takes money from those who have few to give more to those who have more and who do not need new tax gifts. She's not "green." We won't be surprised either. We are not going to repeat the debate on the extension of nuclear power. Nor is it economically effective. Indeed, the aid you provide to the world of business is not conditional on job creation. As we have seen in the past, with other measures taken along the same lines – I am thinking of notional interests – there is no correlation between gifts offered and job creation. This is proof of the destruction of jobs that we are witnessing every day in our country. It is also not economically effective because it will have a very heavy impact on the confidence of our citizens, on internal consumption in our country, from the moment when the money you are going to take back through index jumps and other measures will penalise the most fragile consumers, those who tend to consume, every month, their entire income. In order to operate our economy, we should instead strengthen the financial capacity of internal economic actors, those who cannot relocate. However, there are alternatives, as we have demonstrated through our alternative budget; I will remind you just now by the amendments that we are tabling or resubmitting. I would like to say in this rostrum, and I will have to repeat, that index jump is a decline in revenue. Yes, Prime Minister absent, yes, Minister of Finance: this is a drop in revenues, both direct and indirect. The decline in income is direct because wages and allowances will not be adapted to changes in the cost of living. In addition, the corrections you introduce are, on the one hand, imperfect, including compensatory measures for allowances: in fact, it is observed that in terms of social benefits, the least expenditure on social security related to index jump is more than 700 million euros. However, the compensatory measures you are announcing amount to EUR 127 million. They are also imperfect in their redistribution from the income decile. This is shown in the table obtained through the Court of Auditors, produced by the FPS Finances. By the figures you have kindly given us at the sitting, Minister, in addition to those we had obtained from the Court of Auditors, we realize that half of the envelope, half of the 450 million euros in 2015 and 900 million euros from 2016, linked to the increase in the automatically deductible flat-rate professional burden, benefits the 3 most comfortable income deciles, that is to say, the 30% of the richest Belgians. It's redistributing backwards! On the other hand, the measure that you have decided, unlike other measures that could have been taken at the tax level – such as the increase in the tax-exempt quota – does not benefit the social beneficiaries, the 2 million Belgians who now benefit from pension income; they are completely ignored. What's more, you decide not to index the tax cuts they receive to support their daily needs. This index jump is therefore not compensated for in favour of direct pay. It is even less so for indirect wages, i.e. the financing of social security. When we talk about a tax shift, we obviously imagine it with structural alternative financing of social security. Without this, what is happening today is exactly what is happening with the measures decided by your government: by imposing that more than 30,000 young people will not be able to have access to the integration allowances, by deciding to step up the measures taken by the Di Rupo government in this regard, by deciding to abolish the additional allowances that workers receive – especially part-time workers – by deciding, Madam Minister, to increase the controls on sick people and to put them back to work at all costs, whatever the consequences and their state of health, you will achieve blind savings, which will strike the most fragile and lead them into ever more serious poverty situations. Tomorrow, they will require even more costly public interventions. That's why your choices are short-term choices. Therefore, you decide on an index jump. You're saying you're offsetting him. That's not true! The direct purchasing power of the parties concerned and, above all, of the beneficiaries will be reduced. In addition, you are creating gaps in our social security system which, tomorrow, will justify new measures and which will see our country characterized by an ever greater number of poor or financially fragile people. I gave myself a little calculation. Between the savings measures that you decide, because they are not reforms, and the compensation that you achieve, by 2018, it is more than 4.5 billion euros that will be taken back to the most fragile. We can't accept it. If we look at the part of the programme law that deals with finance from the menu, I have already addressed the issue of reducing the deductible lump sum occupational costs. It is an anti-redistributive measure, which benefits the highest incomes more. I wonder about controlling the costs of the measure. It is known that the cost of a tax measure, unlike measures to increase the welfare envelope, can only be calculated two years later when the tax is calculated. I question the fact that we remain in the envelopes announced while, moreover, in a situation of structural budget deficit, we decide on linear savings measures. With regard to the freezing of the indexation of tax expenditure, it is necessary to consider it in a differentiated way. But the measure that you have decided not to increase the automatic tax reductions that affect social beneficiaries and mainly pensioners is an unfair social measure. You will resume with a tax increase, by 2018, 137 million euros to people who are struggling to close their end of months, since, for too many years, the amount of the pension has not been linked to the development of well-being and the costs of ageing are only increasing over time. I have heard colleagues complain about the intercommunal measure. My approach in the Finance Committee has been, you will know, more nuanced. I do believe that the intercommunals, from the moment they are in a field of activity which concerns the economy, must be subject to the same taxation as the economic actors. In my view, a linear approach is not so indispensable as a legal soundness of the system. In this regard, I have questions. For me, the real public service activities must be exempt, and I fear that by the lightness of the legal system that you have put in place, even if I can share the objective, we would talk at length about this measure, which is also an ideological measure. However, your project includes some elements that we can support. The fourth element is the famous 309% contribution. The aim of this contribution is not to bring money back into state funds directly through fines to be given to economic actors. The aim is to give a signal in the fight against tax fraud. I hear all members of the opposition say that the fight against tax fraud is important. All the actions you have taken in this area since the establishment of the government are in the opposite direction. This deterrent to tax fraud, you're removing it. This is incomprehensible to this objective. I am astonished by this understanding that members of the majority are arguing against economic actors who have tried to circumvent their duty as taxpayers with regard to the fact that when one is a social beneficiary, there is no longer any respect for privacy: one can come to the home, control the bills of water or electricity or the condition of the fuel tank. There is really a double standard. In the fight against tax fraud, you are depriving yourself of an important deterrent. The fifth element is a measure in terms of liquidation bonus and pension insurance. You're making one shot, you're anticipating recipes. You decide, with regard to certain actors, to reduce taxes while saying that you will collect more quickly. When you say that your budget is sound, that it is unfair, for example, that external actors such as the Court of Auditors or the European Commission have problems, in this case the non-structural aspect of some revenue, you are wrong because you use tricks and strings yourself. The sixth element is the linear increase in VAT and excise duties. Whether the consumption of tobacco or alcohol is taxed is not new, but you cannot claim, since this measure is used to finance tax reductions through the increase in the lump sum deduction, which is not paid by taxpayers and has no effect on their economic capacity. This affects the most fragile. Finally, the seventh element, the majority welcomes the fact that there is an increase in the taxation of capital through a minimal increase in the tax on stock exchange operations, which represents 80 million euros in additional revenue compared to the 4.5 billion I mentioned earlier. Do you really find that the scales are balanced, while the exchange transaction tax today has a lower rate than those who decide to buy shares, bonds or other stock products pay to private intermediaries? They pay much more to the banks, to the agencies that assist them in these operations. Through this program law, as in the context of your entire budget, you make short-term choices and the distribution of effort is unfair. We do not compensate for the 2% lost salary, over the entire career, through the announced index jump. Your measures do not benefit some taxpayers, especially the millions of pensioners, and they will increase income gaps. However, it is possible to do otherwise. Het kan anders, as we say with our colleagues in Groen, and that is the meaning of the amendments that I tabled in the Finance Committee and which we are resubmitting today. We believe, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that the effort required must be limited to the lowest incomes. There's still time to correct the shot. The efforts you are asking them will lead thousands of Belgians to CPAS, in poverty and carry the burden back on the municipalities. For this reason, we propose that you revert to the principle of non-indexation of tax reductions for pensioners. I believe that the measure to increase the automatically deductible professional burden should be limited to the income deciles that most need it. The ceilings should not be raised as you propose. As we are concerned not to bequeath an unbearable debt to our children, we propose, in order to finance all this, to review the tax on stock exchange operations by removing the ceilings that are not justified. In fact, today they lead to a tax inversely proportional to the means of people who make stock investments with ridiculously low rates for very large transactions, in any case much lower than the costs paid to private actors. Finally, with regard to this famous tax shift, which we are talking about so much, this tax on capital gains, which, it seems, will be discussed again at the time of the first budgetary adjustment in 2015, we suggest that you do not wait to implement it. You do not wait to take other measures that hurt the most fragile and our economy. We propose that you act today with regard to the taxation of capital gains. We are tabling a bill in the form of an amendment that we have been defending for some years now, Minister, to introduce a degressive tax on capital gains. There are investments necessary for the economy, which are investments in our economic system. On the other hand, there are speculative investments. The first of the criteria for distinguishing between an investment in support of the real economy and a speculative investment is the duration of the investment. What we are proposing is to tax capital gains degressively. If they are carried out during the year, a high rate of taxation is needed, since it is speculation; if on the contrary, investors, as a good father of families, want to support the economy in a sustainable way, the rate decreases. It seems to us, with regard to all the measures you have taken and announced with regard to the most fragile, that this would be a first step towards rebalancing the scales.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u71	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the programme law we are considering today is obviously in keeping with the budget that the majority voted yesterday. There is real coherence. We have also been able to have a very comprehensive report from the rapporteurs. In this regard, I would also like to thank the services of the House, the translation services and the accompanying services of the committees, for their investment in recent weeks. However, I would like to avoid the repetitions here and to come up with a few elements which I believe are essential in order to restore a certain form of likelihood. In fact, since the beginning of the week, there seems to be some kind of takeover of the government's communication. This began with the Prime Minister's performance on a television channel. This has continued here, particularly in the debates on index jumping. Even earlier, we had the impression that all the negative measures contained in this programme law are in fact positive measures, that the population has not understood anything, that the protest movement that has been taking place for several weeks is quite beside the plate! I'd like to drop the masks! To make them believe that all these measures are evil for a good cannot deceive anyone. To say, for example, that index jumping is a measure to increase purchasing power seems to me to be a countersense. To the limit, it could be said that it is a measure aimed at restoring degraded competitiveness. However, it could be discussed as entrepreneurs in the press suggest that this option was not very good as it lit a social fire without much positive effect. Other entrepreneurs claim that the measure is of little benefit to businesses. So we could discuss it. But in any case, to say that this index leap is in favour of purchasing power and that it is in favour of the population is absolutely not credible. If she was so favorable, why not make others? How about a second index jump, a third one? I think Walter, the Prime Minister's bookseller, and Josiane, Mrs. Onkelinx's cashier, believe for a moment that an index jump is likely to increase the purchasing power of their clients. Similarly, the non-indexing of tax expenditure in favour of replacement income cannot, of course, be interpreted as a measure aimed at reviving activity. In this regard, I caution the government. Indeed, I feel that by saying things that are obviously contrary to the truth, you expose yourself to being reproached for your insinuity. Just now, the tone of Mr. Piedboeuf's speech suggests to me that he did not believe himself in what he was saying. I must tell you that I prefer the frankness of the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the Budget to take everything. Indeed, last night, Mr. In particular, Van Rompuy clearly assumed that this was indeed a policy of austerity. He referred to the Martens-Gol years, at the global level, to the measures taken by the Dehaene governments. He has, at least, the merit of frankness. I do not know as well as you, Mr Van Rompuy, these times, but I have been able to observe the developments. There were at least, among the majorities that carried these courageous measures, one or the other deminer. I am thinking in particular of Mr Jean-Luc Dehaene, who, in the face of both his government teams and the social partners, had the art of "demining" the difficulties. Today, I sometimes feel that it would take a deminer in the government to try to neutralize the mines or bombs that some, in the majority, are trying to put under the feet of this government. In any event, the programme law as presented is a law of austerity. It cannot be described otherwise. In doing so, there is indeed a break with the policies of previous governments in which three of the four parties of the majority sat. But it is true that one can always change one's mind and opt for somewhat different measures, leave the centre-right to clearly reach the right. Mr. Piedboeuf was quite explicit in this regard. There is also a break with the MR program. Indeed, unless I am mistaken, before the elections, nothing in the electoral programme of the latter suggested that we were going to be exposed to an index jump, an increase in retirement age and the dark cuts in the federal state's budgets.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u72	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Dispa is used to comment on the MR program. I would like to point out to him that the programme of the Reform Movement is to be deployed in a legislature and that the results can be made at the end of the latter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u73	I have no doubt about that for a second, and I am already looking forward to meeting with the voters so that they can take stock of the actions you have taken and compare the commitments you have made with the decisions you are taking now. I think this comparison will not be to your advantage. Good, finally, if you think this shift is beneficial to the MR, it's your responsibility, it's your choice. I leave it to you. In this programme law, there are measures that are not all negative. In particular, I will pin those in favour of agriculture. They agree with a bill tabled by Catherine Fonck, whose absence I would like to excuse today for reasons beyond her control. The sustainability of tax aid to the agriculture sector is certainly a good thing. On this point, we are not going to make a thin mouth. Although there may be discussions at a later stage on taxation in the agricultural sector, this is a good step to be taken. Similarly, the increase in lump-sum professional fees is not a bad thing. It can indeed benefit those who benefit from it. However, it is not necessary to take bladders for lanterns, this measure is a cache-sex in relation to all the provisions contained in the programme law. It seems obvious to me that it is not enough to compensate for the negative measures contained in this program bill. Without wanting to seek quarrel again, it does not benefit the independents. According to the tables distributed by the government in committee, it is very clear that the percentage of self-employed people who will benefit from the measure is 0.73%. Here too, there is a form of evolution and if Sabine Laruelle had continued to sit in the government, perhaps she would have been an obstacle to a measure that excludes from its benefits a clientele to which you are supposed to be sensitive. In any event, this increase in lump sum professional fees is in no way a tax reform. Dear Mr. Piedboeuf, I would like to make an appointment. Perhaps in five years the tax reform you have announced will have been implemented, but at this stage the 450 million involved in this measure are far from the 10, 15 or 20 billion you have announced!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u74	In committee, there was a whole series of comments and debates. We explained the order in which we do things. We are indeed beginning with consolidation and fiscal measures which are probably not yet sufficient. As I said earlier, even if you think it was in a light tone, the tax reform will be the result of what we are putting in place now. That doesn't satisfy you. It doesn't matter; we will be judged on the duration.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u75	I'll take date. I fear, however, that the fruits will be bitter, but if they are to prove pleasant, I will be the first to recognize them and I will pay tribute to them. In any case, honestly, acknowledge that to this day we are very far from the point of view of what you had announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u76	I will simply remind Mr Piedboeuf of what the National Bank's analysis reveals on the macroeconomic effects of index jumps. It would lead us to a considerable reduction in the wage bill, which would result in a deflating effect on gross domestic product – hence an increase in the debt-to-GDP ratio of 1.9%. At current euro, this is more than seven billion euros. This means that you are going to put yourself in such a situation that you are going to have to announce to the population a fiscal consolidation, which we can predict will result in further dark cuts in public spending and in health care. So, Mr. Piedboeuf, a little humility about your fiscal and economic policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u77	For my part, I would like to draw your attention to what the National Bank presents as positive effects of this index leap in terms of job creation. We believe that it will generate economic development. You think the opposite is true. No problem, but we do not agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u78	Mr Piedboeuf, no, what is important is to see the effect on the structural balance. This is how you see whether or not you are sanitizing your public finances. The report you asked for from the National Bank shows that you are going to dig the structural balance instead of consolidating it. You don't have to tell anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u79	We don't have the same opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u80	Mr Laaouej knows very well that according to the National Bank's tables in the year 2018, government revenue and public expenditure match. It is not true that it creates a deficit. However, there is a discussion about the debt ratio. However, I will not repeat the statement made by the Minister of Finance regarding the GNP deflator. That is a complicated reasoning that has nothing to do with the fact that there would be deficits or that there would be less economic growth. That has to do with the BP deflator. That may be good for an examination question, but in this plenary it would be a mistake. You've seen the tables, haven't you? There is no question that an index jump will increase deficits.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u81	Mr President, I sometimes feel that Mr. Van Rompuy is a member of the government, which would ultimately be good for the government. Fortunately, you're here to come to the rescue of the minister of the absent budget. This policy... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u82	I won't say a word.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u83	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u84	Not next to you, Mr Calvo. Mrs. Onkelinx, you mentioned des venomles. Let the CD&V, when slapped, tend the other cheek.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u85	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u86	The CD&V does not give slaps. He has a small knife, a small knife.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u87	Mr President, I believe that members of the majority should learn not to turn their backs on their partners: it seems that some canists are just asking to be planted. Clearly, the policy contained in this draft programme bill is not a stimulus policy, but a policy of austerity. The tax measures it presents are not tax reform. Finally, the policy contained in this programme law is also not a policy of consultation, whatever the members of the government say by constantly invoking this topic of consultation. In committee, Mr Minister of Finance, I asked whether the measure on the taxation of intercommunals had been the subject of consultation with the Unions of Cities and Municipalities; you answered quite frankly that no. I have regretted this lack of dialogue, as I regret about all the other measures in your government project because this dialogue could be good. I know you have announced information sessions. Nevertheless, before this phase, it would have been wise to remove all the uncertainties, all the ambiguities, all the confusion that exist around this debate. I continue to believe that the Unions of Cities and Municipalities would have been quality interlocutors. I know that the MR tends to make a political trial at the Union of Cities and Municipalities, if I refer to the outrageous mail sent to him by a number of elected MRs, and not least - some are sitting in this assembly, isn't it, dear Benoît Piedboeuf. This position corresponds to an attempt to discredit it, as a matter of principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u88	Dear colleague, indeed, I am a member of the Union of Cities and Municipalities. I wasn't there because I was here. In addition, I told the President of the Union of Cities and Municipalities that if I had been there, I would not have failed to correct part of this. Unfortunately, I was not there and so I had to do so in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u89	But in what terms did you do it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u90	We will not continue on this point. Mr. Dispa, go on.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u91	Mr President, I simply note that in relation to the Union of Cities and Municipalities - in reality the union of cities and municipalities - the government seems to me to have the same difficulty as compared to other representative actors in society. I'm sorry. Mr Piedboeuf, when you write that "the bias and dishonesty that led to the publication of the numerical estimates of the Union of Walloon Cities and Municipalities is a matter of intellectual manipulation and fraud", I sincerely believe that this is excessive. When you write "the shortcuts, simplistics and falsifications of reality contained in this note" – a note from the Union of Cities and Municipalities – "without regard to the effects (...) raise questions about the methodology used and its perfidious subjectivity", I find objectively that you are excessive. All that is excessive is insignificant!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u92	Mr Dispa, you are busy reading us a document other than the letter that I personally addressed to the President!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u93	Forgive me, but Mr. Benoît Piedboeuf, is that you?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u94	Ah, but I was collector and co-sender of the letter sent by Olivier Chastel. I've rectified a few things!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u95	So the editor is Olivier Chastel?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u96	No, I fixed a few things. Olivier Chastel sent an official letter to the Union of Cities and Municipalities and I sent mine! My letter was written by me and I am very happy because it only confirms that the letter that I personally send to a president of the Union of Cities is not in his mailbox, but lands in the mailbox of members of the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u97	Not at all! I have no access to the personal mail you send!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u98	Mr President, in order to avoid the setting up of a committee of inquiry on this matter - we already have enough work on the table - I would just like to make it clear that it was only after discussion in the bodies of our party that our chairman sent this letter to the Union of Cities and Municipalities. We did believe that it had come out of its role. This action is therefore fully assumed by all members of the MR.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u99	Perhaps not all of them, because the vice-president of the Union of Cities and Municipalities MR did not sign this letter. I think he could...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u100	Mr President, I cannot let Mr Dispa continue to investigate how our political formation works. This is a letter signed by our president. It is fully assumed by the MR.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u101	I have no doubt that you will accept it, and I take note of it. It ends with these considerations: "These different elements push us", you speak well in the name of the MR "to question the independence, impartiality and probity of the Union of Cities and Municipalities of Wallonia which, for obvious political and polemic reasons, no longer acts only as the representative and spokesman of the interests of the local authorities at the various levels of power". I consider this position totally outrageous! This political trial that you bring to any forum that allows itself to make criticisms of measures taken by the federal government, this one as well as the previous ones, is not a condition for re-establishing a dialogue that, however, you call for of your wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u102	It wasn't very clear at the end, Mr. Dispa!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u103	If you want to disqualify all those who oppose certain aspects of your policy, you will extend this dialogue of deaf people instead of the consultation you need.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u104	Mr. Dispa, don't call us...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u105	Mr Miller, please ask for the floor. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u106	Mr President, Mr Dispa, I do not want to let you continue to interpret what the MR is going to do. After a statement and a statement by the Union of Wallonia Cities and Municipalities (UVCW), we felt that, given the way in which this text had been published and seen its content, it had a political dimension that did not fit into the mission of the UVCW. It is still our right to think like this and to believe that we will leave it if we have to! We don't need you to suddenly do some kind of moral lesson in relation to the UVCW!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u107	I really don't do any moral lessons. I'm just reading excerpts from this document. I was not the one who denounced the lack of impartiality and probity. I'm coming back to the bottom. What the UVCW meant was that behind the intercommunals there are necessarily communes, behind which there are necessarily citizens. We can open the debate on the taxation of intercommunals. The CDH is not hostile, far from it. We are not in favour of tax niches and we are calling for equal treatment and certainly not for preferential schemes. We can open the debate; we are not against it. But let us do so with the concern to adopt measures that are correct; not in a blind and somewhat simplistic manner. That is why we have tabled three amendments. First, to make a very clear distinction between economic activities and those that are not. Second, to plead for exemption in respect of a range of non-profit activities. Otherwise you will again, because you have not been able to remove all the uncertainties, create an anxiety climate and establish a form of threat, suspend a sword of Damocles, especially over the hospital sector, which is very worried about the measures proposed here. There was no response during the debate in committee to reassure those actors who are pursuing an objective of public interest. That there is equal treatment: no problem. That intercommunals are not exempt simply because they have an intercommunal status: either. At least, however, do not include activities related to culture, leisure, sport, health within the scope of ISOC. That's all I'm asking you. That is why we have introduced these three amendments. I want to believe, being naive, being young in this House, that these amendments could be taken into account, but I am not waging a war of illusions. On the day when the majority accepts amendments from the opposition, we can see that a climate of dialogue can be established, including within this body.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u108	As Mr. Maingain is absent, I give the floor to Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u109	Mr President, if I may, I would like to do a pedagogy in relation to the usual demagogy of the Liberals on taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u110	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u111	I do pedagogy while you do demagogy. Words look the same, but it's different!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u112	Mr. Van Hees has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u113	To do this pedagogy, I take the example of Paul who is cashier at the Colruyt. Why this example? The Prime Minister tells us that the index jump will not have an impact because we can deduct more tax lump-sum costs. It's kind of like we're asking Paul to go carry a present to his boss, Jef Colruyt. Boss, here's a present for you! It's the index jump. What does the government say then? As compensation, Paul from Colruyt will receive a gift himself. What is it? This is the increase in the flat-rate tax charges for natural persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u114	Except that Santa Claus, under Charles Michel's name, later sent Paul the bill. Therefore, it is the worker himself who has to pay the bill for the gift he allegedly receives from the government. How? Through the increase in indirect taxes (increase in VAT, increase in excise duties, increase in registry fees which makes access to justice more difficult) more unfair than the tax on natural persons. I don't understand why members of the MR are getting upset because it's included as such in the government's agreement. Do you want me to do it again? I can do it if you want. I can also give private lessons. In short, the example I have just given is that unless capital is taxed, each time a tax reduction is granted, it is the workers who bear the cost. I come to another chapter of the program law. For pensioners, the unemployed, the disabled – it is also incredible – we are witnessing another form of compensation. The government informs them that there will be an index jump, but that it will be compensated. How? By increasing their taxes. As far as replacement income is concerned, there is no question of a fallacious tax reduction, but of an increase in the tax for the above-mentioned persons. It is quite incredible to see that parties that are at the forefront of tax cuts, which, before the elections, were talking only about tax cuts, are at the origin, through the programme law, of an increase in the taxes of the unemployed, pensioners and invalids. This increase is not small for low incomes. A pensioner who receives a pension of 1 250 euros today does not pay any tax. Thanks to the government in place, in a few years, it will pay 600 euros of tax. He can therefore thank the government. In the name of what, does the latter justify this increase in income tax on replacement income? Mr. Minister of Finance said it was to avoid the employment trap. The logic is therefore as follows: the incomes of employees are reduced, and therefore the incomes of the unemployed will also be reduced. I suppose that's how we want to avoid the job trap. But for pensioners, where is the job trap? By taxing pensions, how will an employment trap problem be solved? I'm still looking. If you have the answer, I'm interested. The government is also telling us that it will tax capital. The exchange transaction tax will be raised. Yes, we are going to tax capital, but are we going to tax small capital or big capital? Will the small shareholder be taxed? You often talk about small shareholders in the MR. Or will Albert Brother, Marc Coucke and people like that be taxed? It is clear that it is not Marc Coucke or Albert Frère that we will really touch by increasing the tax on stock exchange operations since the ceiling will increase from 740 euros to 800 euros. So at the most, the increase in the tax on stock exchange operations will be 60 euros. You can imagine, if Marc Coucke or Albert Frère realize capital gains in billions of euros, they will have to pay 60 euros more! There, indeed, we are not in taxatory rage! And then, there remain notional interests, whose own funds are adapted for banks: 100 million euros return. The Court of Auditors and the FPS Finances tell us that it is 10 times less than what has been put forward by the government. We're around 10 million euros. What percentage of the budgetary effort for 2015 does this amount of EUR 10 million represent? This represents, if you remove the decimals, 0% of the budget effort. It takes decimal places to find out what part of the budget effort this represents. We are at 0.3% of the budget effort. As far as the secret commissions are concerned, I have already had the opportunity several times to say that this government was not only the government of the great capital but also the government of the fraudsters. Here's more evidence. A technique that was used to combat black work and income concealment is being attacked. But that does not surprise us on the part of this government. A few words also on non-tax measures contained in this programme law, including measures on incapacity for work. The objective of these measures is purely budgetary: to save EUR 250 million. The consequences, however, are not small, since the sick, the disabled, etc. will be directly affected. So, through such measures, the government is really turning into a machine to create misery, to create poor people. With regard to incapacity for work, these measures of the programme law should normally be negotiated in management committee and with the social partners. We have a government that repeats every day the need for social dialogue and encourages us not to strike. And here, what did the management committee say, what did the unions say about this measure? The unions did not say anything because they were not consulted. There is a legal obligation, but there has been an urgent need not to consult in this area. I'll finish with the pension bonus. It's about a pill. This goes back to a period already socially troubled. I don't know if you remember the Generations Pact. There were already major strikes against the government's attacks on pre-pensions at the time. To pass the pill of attacks against pre-pensions, what did they say to the workers? They've been told they'll be entitled to the pension bonus. This bonus, the previous government has already reduced it and the current government is totally abolishing it for the years to come. Thank you, the government. This is further proof that it is indeed the government of the great capital, the government of the Voka, of the FEB. Moreover, Bart De Wever often had the opportunity to say that his boss was the Voka. Thanks to the bosses' government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u115	Mr President, Madam Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief and concise because it is beginning to be late and we have worked a lot in recent days, and because long speeches will not change the majority vote against the opposition. So neither my voice nor my word will change anything that has already been decided. As in the vote of confidence in this government, the People's Party will abstain. If this country needs reforms, the ones you are considering in this programme law are too timid, insufficient and sometimes incongruous. Some are desirable, such as the taxation of intercommunals who are unjustly exempt from tax. You are all familiar with the theory of the first 100 days in which a government adopts flagship measures that will give the tone of the legislature. The spirits must be struck with measures that mark the opinion, whether they please or upset habits, acquired rights, the comfort zone. This type of measure, such as a tax bing, the elimination of all unnecessary institutions (Senate, provincial institutions), the first three jobs without social security charges or formalities, or the spread of all those who have come to our country to use the social security buffet without wishing to contribute to the common well-being, this type of strong measures are absent from the programme law. Some reforms may come later. Meanwhile, the lukewarm water you serve us does not satisfy anyone and, above all, is not in a position to restore this country. Even if we denounce the political nature of the last strikes, we wonder whether wage indexation should be abolished instead of drastically reducing social charges. For businesses, the effect would have been the same. For workers, greater purchasing power would have resulted, thus fuelling demand. These measures lack ambition and breath, I told you. We were waiting for Grouchy, and it was Blücher. I regret that, as do my party and many citizens. So I will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak in two stages. The first part of my speech will be reserved primarily for the Annals of the House, the second will be used to raise awareness among some of you. First of all, I would like to make two comments on the programme law, particularly on health. I regret that you postulated what the law of 2012 provided for in terms of the application of the paying third party, mandatory for all beneficiaries of the increased intervention as well as for chronic patients from 1 January 2015. Your government and your department, the minister, have made the choice to postpone this coming into force for six months. This is, of course, regrettable, but it is, in substance, part of the policy that will be pursued in the years to come. On the one hand, you will increase the costs while on the other, you will reduce the means. In committee and in the negotiations on the budget note, you mentioned the requirement to postpone for six months because of the lack of development of MyCareNet. However, after reflection, this argument does not seem to me to stand the way. Why? Because MyCareNet is a tool that simplifies the relationships between claimants and insurers and facilitates the repayments of these claimants. It is not a tool that conditions the application of the paying third party. The evidence is that, at present, the paying third party already exists. So to say that we will not be able to implement it immediately because the system is not working is, in my opinion, totally wrong! I would therefore like to stress that you must assume the decision to postpone this six-month measure in order to achieve savings. In the same way, you wanted to remove purely and simply the will that was enshrined in the 2012 law to apply it for chronically ill patients by again mentioning the fact that it is necessary to define what a chronically ill person is. Since January 2014, however, a statute has existed. While I am pleased that you have left the door open to eventually reconsider this decision, it remains that as of January 1, 2015, people will not benefit from a possible increase of the paying third party. My second point will be much more general. It concerns the budgetary objective that you have set yourself. I would like to reiterate the difficulties faced by hospital institutions. You say it yourself regularly in committee. More than 40% of these institutions are in financial difficulty. The linear decrease of 0.4 per cent, the desire to allow people with dialysis to take care of themselves at home, will have financial consequences for all hospital institutions. Reducing the number of days to which people are entitled after childbirth will reduce hospital receipts. As a result, inter-municipal societies that are already in difficulty will be even more so tomorrow. This will be your responsibility because, on the one hand, you decide to increase the cost of health care and, on the other hand, to reduce the means by which to continue to have one of the world's lowest-cost systems that provides the best coverage in the world: 99.2% of our population can benefit from health care. I have been a member of this honourable House for eleven years! We do not have the opportunity to participate in all the committees or to read all the texts. That is why everyone is assigned to a particular commission. In addition, most of us hold the position of mayor, echevin or communal councillor. This programme law has removed three lines, of which I hope that each of you will be able to assess their future effects. In this case, this is Article 180, § 1, which will remove the possibility of defiscalisation for intercommunals. What is the will of this abolition? In the past, intercommunals were established as legal persons and thus exempt from tax. Tomorrow, they will be submitted to ISOC, with the exception of the ASBLs. I wish we were conscious. Indeed, the term "intercommunal" often refers to a negative image, to extraordinary fantasies. I would like to make it clear that these are also all the hospital intercommunals, and of the hospitals at the 23 Walloon level, there are some which are not built up as an ASBL. We're told it's okay. I have heard much more from Mr. Piedboeuf than the government has answered this question. That is a shame, because the answer that must be given to us must be given by the government, not by the Members of Parliament! "All we have to do is change. Tomorrow we will transform intercommunals in private form into ASBL". Mr Piedboeuf, it was you who said you were going to transform them. Is that useful?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u117	Mr. President, just a correction. I didn't mention ASBL, I talked about cooperatives for social purposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u118	The problem is that intercommunal societies cannot be transformed into non-profit organisations or cooperative societies for social purposes. The decrees do not allow this. In order to do so, it will be necessary to change the nomenclature and the Walloon decrees in order to be able to change their structure. The problem is that the intercommunal hospitals, the intercommunal rest homes, rest homes and nursing homes will move on to ISOC tomorrow. That's the reality. The answers provided to us were, among other things, that it was a lucrative, commercial activity; the first argument that was presented to us with regard to this transition from intercommunal to ISOC was that it was necessary to ensure healthy competition. I can hear that argument, although I do not think, and no doubt neither do you, Madam Minister, that the intercommunal hospitals are in fierce competition at the commercial level, as we can hear. But I'm surprised when I realize you're not going to the end of the line of reasoning. Indeed, the rules remain free. On that, I never got an answer. When we talk about governance, we could think, as if by chance, of the port of Antwerp. If the government's objective is to seek healthy competition, which I can hear from a commercial point of view, I would like you to explain to me the difference between Seraing's hospital and the port of Antwerp in terms of competitive activity. I feel that the harbour is more competitive than the hospital. No doubt, there is one element that I have not grasped. Besides, I've never had the slightest explanation. Second point: in addition to wanting to tax intercommunals from tomorrow, you want to tax their reserves. Again, I come back to the hospital: these intercommunals have made huge reservations, simply because the investments needed to make them cost enormously, whether in infrastructure or in equipment, since hospital machines are extremely expensive, such as scanners. Deciding now to tax all reserves would be catastrophic for the finances of our hospital institutions, in particular. A third point which we have not received a reply to concerns the entry into force. We had the opportunity to discuss it. I am not going into detail, but today it is impossible for me to know from when the measures of this programme law will come into force. You've never been able to certify an exact date. Finally, lastly, you estimate the return on the taxation of these intercommunals to be EUR 200 million and you justify this tax by saying that these intercommunals are not only public shareholders but that there are mixed intercommunals in which private persons are found. I simply remind you that private individuals who are shareholders of intercommunals pay taxes, unlike the municipalities. First, they pay 25.75 per cent at the corporate tax level, and then they replenish a 25 per cent discount on dividends. So they pay tax. I don't care if anyone wants to increase it. This will therefore not be an additional recipe. On the other hand, the rest will be a recipe on the backs of cities and municipalities. In fact, you're going to get 200 million euros from the cities and municipalities in Belgium. What are the consequences? First of all, it's kind of forgetting the story. I know that many intercommunals can be decimated and that one can enter into the most absolute fantasies. I would remind you, however, that intercommunals, like those for the distribution of water, have been created in order to distribute the price equitably. However, the price of water, which we live in a small rural commune where there are not many taxes, which is generally a more right-wing municipality, and the price of water where it is obviously much cheaper in terms of infrastructure, at present it is the same. Clearly, if we go into this kind of reasoning, I don't see why tomorrow big cities should continue to finance the water that comes in small towns and that obviously costs a lot more. You have to be logical! At some point, we can't want everything. It is not always the same to bear the consequences of a policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u119	I have a communal water authority. The Walloon Region applies a cost-truth that makes the less dense networks pay for their water much more expensive than the denser networks of cities. Today, the rates are different between cities and small towns. Don't come here to say that there is harmonisation today. The cost-truth of water in the Walloon Region makes the tariffs already different and the small municipalities are disabled compared to the big cities on the price of water. You're completely wrong, Mr. Mathot.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u120	Am I completely wrong? Is the price of water different in Chaudfontaine and Seraing? I'm wrong, or is the price the same? (...): It depends on the intercommunals. (...): You can change between communes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u121	No, the price is the same. I didn't say otherwise. I am warning you precisely about the consequences of this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u122	If you don't like the price of your intercommunal, change it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u123	I don't have a problem. That's what I'm saying. I'm saying that at some point, the consequences will have to be taken care of. I didn't say it was a problem. I would like you to be aware of the consequences that this will have. Secondly, when we speak of intercommunals, we are talking about the hospital, the rest homes, the supply of water; we are also talking about economic redeployment. The SPI invests in land to develop attractiveness and to create jobs. It's your leitmotiv, job creation. For jobs to be created, areas are needed. We must be able to welcome businesses and allow them to grow. Tomorrow, we will tax these intercommunals, take away resources to give them at the federal level. We will reduce their capacity, or even risk increasing the price at which we sell the land to the companies, which are so dear to you, and to us too, to be able to grow in the territory. Thirdly, it means that the aid given to these intercommunals by the European, federal and regional level will be taxed. We're gonna tax ourselves. Fourthly, as I said, the effect on the income of the communes with all the consequences that this will have on the inhabitants. Everyone who is a bit of a municipalist in this room knows how difficult it is to close a budget. You may have had difficulties at the federal level. It is problematic to reduce the revenue that allowed the budget to be balanced. We still have to be clear, if there are intercommunals who make money, there are people who lose money. And they're not going to be exempt. I don't know the firemen's intercommunal, but I don't think she makes a lot of money a year. I don't think it makes a lot of money a year. Not allowing the tax shift – I'm going to use that term; it's a term you like and you should understand, that is, allowing those who lose to deduct from those who win – is particularly unfair. Fifth point, in your argument about healthy competition, the need to have a normal service for everyone, you forget that intercommunals are not societies like others. They have very strict governance rules. They must pass their decisions on to the communal councils. Therefore, if you say to an intercommunal tomorrow that it will be subject to the same regime as the other companies, why continue to remain under the status of intercommunal, while other statutes would no doubt allow them to be more effective? Not to mention the consequences that this can bring! There are 8,000 statutory employees in the intercommunals. If they are no longer there tomorrow, it will be a problem for you, Minister of Pensions, from the point of view of ONSSAPL contributions! This is a reality in terms of re-entry for ONSSAPL. In house is the current possibility for municipalities to be able to work directly with intercommunals. I would remind you that the initiative has always come from the municipalities. That is why they are called intercommunal. The initiative to be able to put together means to deliver public services will no longer be possible! It'll be a total competition. There will no longer be an opportunity to involve the companies that have been set up to help the municipalities. Not to mention the inability to carry out expropriations when needed for the purpose of demergering or something else. But this is a detail. Thus, for all the reasons I have just mentioned, I would simply like the government to be able to answer us one day about legal certainty. Who will be concerned and who will not? What is the planned coming into force? Why has the regime of societies such as the port of Antwerp been differentiated from other intercommunals, in particular the intercommunal hospitals which, in my view, is less of a trading system than the port of Antwerp. That is why our group has tabled three amendments. I know we'll probably be part of a majority/opposition scheme. Nevertheless, I would like you to be fully aware of the consequences of the decision you will make today. It is for this reason that we first tabled a first amendment to allow Article 180(1) to be retained, even though I am aware that this is far from being won (but it is never known, if this amendment is voted on, the other two would automatically lapse). We have also tabled two other amendments. I ask you to think carefully about the fact that intercommunals are not limited to hospital institutions and large-scale distribution. Services to the population (children's services, swimming pools, etc.) are also mentioned.), or collective services. The aim of these amendments is to save at least non-marketers, to allow hospital services, nursing homes and nursing homes not to be subject to ISOC. They are also intended to allow reserves to be immunized and to prevent them from being tapped into. Indeed, given the economic situation, the decisions you make at the financial, health level, the next few years will be extremely difficult for hospital institutions that will need their reserves if they have them. Taxing these reserves is criminal! This will have a catastrophic impact on the population as a whole. Think carefully, if civil society fails to improve the lot of the majority of the poor, it will not be able to save the minority of the rich.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that there are 10 more speakers, including the ministers. If we are to meet our deadline, everyone will have to limit their speaking time to six minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u125	Mr President, my speech will be very brief. I have heard the speech of the previous speaker and I think that there are some errors. After all, the government's first communication showed very clearly that there is an exception for the not-for-profit activities. It seems that the message has still not been understood. It is clear that there are transitional measures and that there are questions about their practical modalities. The Minister has clearly committed himself in committee to developing certain clarifications, possibly in a circular. He said that he would make a proposal for his own practical determination. There is sometimes a confusion between, on the one hand, profitable and non-profit-making activities and, on the other hand, commercial and non-commercial activities. That is why it is a good thing that the Minister is doing the I thing today. What one can see as a unity, one should not necessarily divide. I admit that there was some confusion in committee about concrete examples, such as a hospital shop or a car park. The Minister had to explain some of this. As far as historical reserves are concerned, I can partly agree with the observation that the scheme is not clear in many respects. I would like to cite the example of a jubilatory intercommunal with us in West Flanders, which has an active EUR 75 million. We will be loyal to the measure, but we need to see how it can be organised in practice when it comes to assets, land and buildings. If it were to be a 33 percent attack, we would have to cough up 25 million euros. Sometimes one does not have the necessary liquidity to cough up such a sum immediately. So it's important to look at that. That's exactly the job for the next few weeks. The Minister will also say what is or is not covered.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u126	Mr Deseyn, there appears to be a problem with translation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u127	I fear that my rhythm of speech is part of the cause of the problem. I will conclude at a slower pace, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u128	It was environmental noises that were too disturbing.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u129	It is said here that West Flemish influences would disturb the system, while this afternoon it was claimed to be the Antwerp. I leave it to everyone to consider this. If we are in a situation where there is a need to borrow from the partners on the municipalities, for example in order to raise the burden, then the municipal authorities and the intercommunals must know clearly what they are up to in the short term. Perhaps we should consider what historical assets are taken into account, and what is the difference between financial and intangible assets. I believe that these are legitimate questions, and I look forward to the Minister's clarification of the various concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u130	Mr President, I would like to respond to what Mr Deseyn has just said. Speaking to him, I would also like to address the Minister of Finance. The subject we find ourselves in is taxation. But the tax laws are strictly interpreted, Mr. Deseyn. In other words, if the law does not explicitly exclude the non-market sector from corporate tax liability, this sector – the actors of which can take the form of a company in order to organize themselves – will be subject to this tax immediately. If an organization takes the form of a BLSO, the tax administration, because of the removal of the explicit exclusion of intercommunals from corporate tax liability, may also, if the tax authorities so wish, submit them. What was permitted by the current Article 180, 1°, and what it will allow until such time as this possible proposal is adopted, was to preserve the intercommunals from being subject to corporate tax. Here, the result is that a hospital that has organised itself in the form of a company will be subject to this taxation. Unfortunately, that is what the government's legal framework leads us to. We are in the tax field, which is a matter of strict public policy. Mr. Minister of Finance, if your intention is not to subject the hospital sector and nursing homes to corporate tax, then it must be explicitly stated in the legislation. I am speaking to all the members of the majority. We are not in the register of political controversy. Many Members of the majority know what reality I am talking about. Moreover, it will, of course, have consequences for communal finances, but also for users and hospital facilities. That is why I invite them to join us in our solemn request to provide for an explicit exclusion in the law of the non-market sector and, at the very least, of the hospital sector and rest homes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft programme law for finance has already been discussed very extensively in committee, with often animated debates and in-depth analyses. I, for my part, have tried to conduct that debate openly and transparently on behalf of the government. What struck me most in those debates, even today, is that we, with a majority and opposition, have to come to the conclusion on several occasions that the differences of opinion are ideological in nature. We agreed on that on a number of occasions. Agree to dispute, based on ideological principles and vision. That has the advantage of clarity. This government is taking measures which are a homogeneous package and which support a vision. It has also been shown clearly that this is not the view of the opposition. The future will tell who's right. In any case, that has also been made clear in the debates in committee, and I respect the opposition's view. The coalition agreement translates into this programme law and there are clear choices to be made. We want to make work pay again. We're gonna stop building debt. We invest in competitiveness so that companies can create jobs and prosperity. We have confirmation of this from the IMF, the European Commission and the National Bank. Whatever they say, we're not leaving anyone behind. The government opts for structural measures leading to recovery, taking into account the absolutely essential fact that the Belgian economy is one of the most open economies in the world. The first and most important yard is to reduce the structural deficit. The health of public finances is an absolute priority. In addition to an ambitious fiscal effort, the government will also take measures to improve competitiveness. Through a socially adjusted index jump, an accelerated introduction of the Competitiveness Pact and a sustained wage moderation, this government will finally once again support the private sector in order to create jobs. This creation of jobs means, of course, the creation of purchasing power, additional purchasing power. In any case, this effort is seen as positive by, among other things, the European Commission. Let me be very clear: we cannot attract innovative companies or investment in research and development if we are not a priori competitive. I would also like to mention a measure which has been snowed down in the past and has hardly been mentioned, namely the tax shift. I do not think that everything has been said about this tax shift, because the tax shift that is already under way is worth EUR 2 billion, and it represents remarkable shifts. I think I can say that all too often this has been lost in the debates and discussions that have gone on. On one side of the tax shift are the stock market tax, the banking tax and the caiman tax. These are clearly not taxes that affect ordinary citizens. Let there be no doubt about it either: this is not a Greek calendar. I confirm once again that the EUR 100 million banking tax will be introduced, but under a different form than we originally intended it to be. The caiman tax will be there at least at the beginning of next year. On the other hand, there are tangible tax cuts that the citizens immediately benefit from. The increase in the flat-rate deduction of professional costs is an immediate tax reduction for working people, especially for low and average incomes. This measure will represent a tax reduction of an average of EUR 250 million per year at cruising speed in 2016, up to a maximum of EUR 375. For 2015, this measure has been budgeted at 450 million euros. Trust is needed to re-launch much-needed economic growth. This applies both to the relationship with the citizen and to the relationship with the entrepreneur. The present draft programme law proposes the necessary measures to restore that confidence. The sample fine of 309 %, the so-called attack on secret commissions, is drastically reduced at rates of 103 % or 51%. Moreover, the measure again aims to re-establish its original objective of encouraging economic operators to identify the beneficiaries of the fees granted in good time rather than punishing economic operators simply because they do not fulfil certain administrative formalities. A lot has already been said about the liquidation bonus. We're just anchoring the transitional measure. I also pay attention to the fiscal measures for agriculture, which have been in place since 2008 and are now permanently enshrined in the Income Tax Code. While the increased exemption from the transfer of the farm levy in companies where shift or night work is carried out is postponed by one year, it is accelerated to increase from 1 January 2016 instead of the planned date of 1 January 2017. I would also like to draw your attention to the customs reform, of which I would like to make an important point, so that, among other things, more public revenue can be generated through the more efficient operation of customs. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the intercommunals and the relevant provisions of the government agreement and the programme law, which follows from the other, I can tell you that the government understands the practical and legal challenges posed by the new regulation for intercommunals, for example for certain hospital structures, which do not operate a company or engage in profitable activities, but which are currently organised under a commercial legal form. For those intercommunales, an administrative circular will clarify that either until 31 December 2015, or until seven months after the end of the last financial year, they will have time to make the necessary adjustments to their legal form. In concrete terms, this means that such an intercommunal whose financial year is equal to the calendar year until 31 December 2015 has the time to adapt to a non-commercial legal form, making it possible to continue to meet the conditions of the legal person tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u132	Mr President, Mr Mathot has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u133	Mr President, Minister, I am very pleased: this is the first time that we have received a clear answer. Despite what my colleague said, I do not remember having received one in committee. I'm very happy at the moment. But I do not understand the purpose of wanting to remain in this strenuousness. Imagine the work to be done to transform societies into another legal form! Especially since this will not solve the problem of reservations. I therefore find it difficult to understand this desire to change the legal status of hospitals, nursing homes, nursing homes and nursing homes, currently in a certain legal form. I do not understand this obsession of the government, and I do not take into account all the costs that this includes, as it will require, among other things, general meetings. I repeat that in Wallonia, one cannot transform a cooperative society or an intercommunal public limited liability company into an ASBL. We can't do it right now. I emphasize this for all Francophone agents closely or by far linked to an intercommunal hospital. Today, it is impossible to achieve. The order-in-councils will have to be amended in advance; then, if this is done, the structure will have to be changed. I am glad to hear you on a date; nevertheless, in reality, I do not see how to achieve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u134	Mr President, in order to ensure uniform application of the rules, as has just been explained, we are examining the need to incorporate the transitional regime into legislative texts. I would like to stress once again, on behalf of the government, that only the derogation regime for the intercommunals is abolished and that all other rules on the distinction between legal persons tax and corporate tax remain unchanged. In this way, the government organises a level playing field in fiscal matters between the public sector and the private sector within an existing and well-known fiscal framework. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u135	Minister, this is a very important issue. Will the transition from the social form to the ASBL form lead to taxation of reserves? To move from the corporate form to the ASBL form, unless there is a mistake on my part and unless the notices that I have been able to consult are incorrect, you must go through a dissolution. If there is dissolution, there is taxation. This is a real problem because it is not the desired objective. The second element, which was raised by Mr Mathot, is that the solution that you are advocating is, unfortunately, in conflict with an existing legal framework at the level of the Walloon Region, which prohibits the use of the ASBL form for the implementation of the management of certain intercommunals. So there are actually two pitfalls, a fiscal pitfall and a legal pitfall. Minister, I would like to insist. I wonder if it is not simpler to provide in the programme law for an explicit exclusion from the non-market sector ideally but, at the very least, from the hospital sector and from the rest homes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u136	I think that, with what has now been explained, I have outlined the framework within which we can look at cases on a case-by-case basis. This has often been the subject of discussions in committee. There are so many shades, so many different situations that it is almost impossible to give general answers. What I am proposing now is just a means of considering, within reasonable time limits, what can actually happen in any individual case. I would like to conclude by thanking the members of the Committee on Finance and the Budget for the thorough substantive debates. We have had debates with respect for each other, even though this often differed according to the presence of more or less camera performances. I would also like to express my thanks to the chairman of the committee, Mr Van Rompuy, who has led the debates with great patience and in his own way, which I can appreciate. I would also like to thank Parliament's committee secretariat and services for their support at regular and often less regular times.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u137	I take it there are no replies. Then we shall proceed to the chapter on Social Affairs. There are currently three speakers. I call Mrs Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, do not worry, I will just briefly explain our amendments. Much has already been said, so I am sure you will be able to follow without a long explanation. We have been challenged this week by Mr Dewael, who said he saw no amendment to the budget. I announced that we would be tabling amendments to the Programme Act today. Mr Vanvelthoven has already explained this very well. There was also criticism of where our tax shift and our reduction in wages remained.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u139	Where are your savings?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u140	There were several points of criticism.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u141	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u142	I am glad that you remember our programme so well, Mr Verherstraeten, but you must look at it fully. Our program also involves other things. Ladies and gentlemen, in this way I am going to finish my six minutes of speaking time by defending our programme. Now we must pay attention to the programme law and to the alternatives we offer. Mr Vanvelthoven has just proposed an added value tax. What do we want to use it for?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u143	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u144	Mr Verherstraeten, I would appreciate it if you would listen now.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u145	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u146	That is true, Mr Verherstraeten, but you challenged me by saying that we do not offer an alternative. If I'm going to explain to you our alternative, then the courtesy commands you to listen. So I was talking about the tax on added value, as explained by Mr Vanvelthoven. What do we want to use it for? We want to use it for job creation. We want to reduce the burden on wages, not linearly as this government does, but very selectively. Again, all studies suggest that in this way much more jobs are created than by an index jump, which is nevertheless financed by the employees themselves. Since you are so concerned with job creation, since you say that everything you do is meant to create jobs, I am sure that you are our Amendment No. 6 will approve. We also have Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 7. As we will create many more jobs in this way, there is absolutely no need to make another index jump. That is why we have tabled Amendment No 2. 7 want to delete the index jump. I am sure you will also approve that amendment. Finally, there is the amendment No. 1, which deals with maintaining the pension bonus. We have also discussed this issue a great deal. I do not think, ladies and gentlemen, that people are being encouraged to work longer, if one adds immediately that what they could have earned more in the past will now be deducted. We also believe that the career should be extended, but incentives should be provided. A first incentive, among other things, is to delete the proposal for the abolition of the pension bonus, as stated in the programme law. That is why we have Amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 1 submitted. Mr President, I think that with my explanation of those three amendments, I have remained absolutely within my speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u147	Sure, Mrs. Temmerman. Mr Gilkinet has the floor. Then it's your turn, Mrs. Pehlivan.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether the Minister for Employment is announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u149	I don't know, too, but the government is represented.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u150	I wanted to address the aspects of social dialogue. I'll do it without him as we had to without him in committee. With regard to the social affairs component of this programme law, I will address the question of pension bonus, the amendment of the Intergenerational Solidarity Pact introduced by amendments and without prior advice from the social partners and, Madam Minister, the measures taken with regard to sick workers. As far as pensions are concerned, there are three major issues: the budgetary sustainability of the system which, for us, must not be achieved by reducing the current or future rights of pensioners, but by considering structural alternative financing of our pension system as provided for in the report of the experts on the subject. Secondly, we must ensure to each beneficiary, to each pensioner, to each person at the end of his or her professional career, a level of income that enables him or her to meet his or her basic needs and to reinject his or her income in the context of the local economy and the real economy. Thirdly, and unrelated to the skills of Mrs De Block and Mr Peeters, we have a job to do in front of us who are the one of career. One career is not the other and it is not normal for workers to undergo stress situations, fixed-term contracts on a repeated basis. Some workers are tired of their careers and others are just asking for work but do not receive sufficient job offers. Our labour market needs to be modernized, particularly with the issue of work-sharing between older workers who want to lift their feet, reduce their working hours, and young workers who want to promote their skills. None of this is included in this program law. Maybe it will come later. It is true that your government has just established itself. On the other hand, through the programme law, both in the area of pensions and in the area of allowances for sick persons, there are economic measures which are being tried to make up for reform measures of common sense. Sometimes there is a beginning of justification. I don't want to be blind. We had a good debate in committee on the pension bonus. But there is no somewhat modern reform to improve the system and try to take account of changes in society, the world of work and also the way in which income is generated today, that is, much less on the basis of labour and much more on the basis of capital, hence the need for tax shift. Among the pension measures you propose, the most symbolic in the program law is the abolition of the pension bonus. As I said in committee, the pension bonus is not perfect, as it exists. It is little redistributive, ultimately favours those in a position to continue to work and is not sufficiently incentiveful. This has been highlighted by several studies. On several occasions in the previous legislature, my colleague Wouter De Vriendt and I have suggested a better progressivity of the measure and also that it should be able to benefit workers who did not have sufficient pension rights during their career and who, later, want to continue working. This is particularly true of women who have interrupted their careers for some reason, often for family reasons. It's a fact. Statistics show that they do so more often than men. There was therefore an opportunity to improve the pension bonus system to make it more efficient and fairer. Minister, you have decided to delete it. It is indeed much simpler. It's radical. It is a budgetary economy, like others that do away with the budget notifications that we have had to deal with. I thought I had a Minister of Reform Pensions, someone who could analyze a problem and provide fine answers to it, who would improve the situation. As much as I have criticized my Socialist colleagues who proposed to wait a little since it costs only EUR 16 million, behaviour which I think is hardly responsible, so much we denounce your decision: simply to abolish the measure without replacing it and to apply a punitive logic rather than an incentive towards the social beneficiaries. We regret this measure and we are waiting for you with other measures than this one. My second point concerns the Minister for Employment, but it is the Minister for Social Affairs present here who responded in committee. So let's continue the dialogue with her. The majority decided to amend, by way of amendments tabled at the sitting, a very important text concerning social dialogue in our country: the Intergenerational Solidarity Pact. It is a bad habit, which I shall denounce systematically, to receive amendments at the sitting. Agree that they have been the subject of a request for an opinion from the Council of State, proof that the existing texts could have circulated, including for the benefit of the opposition. The Council of State rightly notes that it is a tradition – for the protection of social peace in the country – that texts relating to the world of work are the subject of a request for an opinion from the National Labour Council, where employers and workers are represented. However, the government has decided to ignore: it has introduced changes. The main concerns the fact that, since there is no agreement between the social partners on the allocation of the welfare envelope, it is up to the government to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u151	I'm asking you to finish. Although we do not have a regulatory basis, if you continue to do so, we will not be able to vote at 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u152	Mr President, I will not prolong excessively, but I still need three minutes. I was not aware of a six-minute delay, otherwise I would have shortened my speech. I'm going on. We believe, Madam Minister, that this is not the right way to legislate on social issues. Social dialogue is indeed important. We took note of the agreement reached yesterday in the Group of 10. We are curious to know what will be the fate of the government's easing of some of its decisions, particularly with regard to time credit. Will you follow the opinion of the social partners? They have demonstrated their willingness to continue to debate and play their role in our democracy. Without being major, this agreement has the merit of existing. In any case, we would like to stress that it is unacceptable to legislate in social matters without prior consultation. I have noted the government's willingness to allocate the welfare envelope to the allocations. This is not included in the provisions of the law as such, but in the commentary to the articles. Perhaps you will repeat this a little later, but we regret this method, which may put into difficulty a social dialogue that is already complicated. Finally, another measure of this programme law is aimed at increasing penalties for the sick and at systematically considering a return to work with them. I do not dispute the interest of some of them to return to work under other conditions, possibly in part-time work. However, you remove the additional part-time allowances. In any case, this budgetary measure must not become the norm. This measure is strictly budgetary in the sense that it is only intended to save money. You're going to do it for a few billion euros at the expense of the most fragile. It is therefore problematic. In short, you're going to build a gas plant. Our social security system is designed to take into account the particular situations of people who have contributed, whether they are unemployed, pensioners, sick or incapacitated. Gradually, you question a system that has played a crucial role in stability for our country, both in social and economic terms, especially in all the crises it has experienced – the last being the financial crisis. I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to return to practices that are more in line with the most fragile concerns and social cohesion in our country, which also has an impact on our economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the Minister's measures in the programme law on the reform of incapacity for work and on the amendments we have tabled. The reintegration plan is set out in Article 143. Of course, no one can be against a plan tailored to the possibilities of the disabled worker. The workers concerned are usually the first interested party to do so, both in terms of income and in terms of the feeling of being usefully involved in the company and in fellow transferees. Nevertheless, the budgetary impact of the measure and the three-month deadline raise questions. Furthermore, Madam Minister, it is simply unrealistic to think that the scheme can enter into force on 1 January 2015, which is in ten to twelve days' time, as stated in Article 159 of the draft programme law. This would mean that multidisciplinary plans for socio-professional integration should be launched in the first three months of 2015, although the royal decisions, which define the relevant actors, the content and the conditions of those plans, are still to be issued. So I wonder how this will be done in practice. Moreover, in the explanatory memorandum to the articles in the draft on the reintegration plan, you state that a wide-ranging consultation is still necessary in order to finalise the scheme. The Council of State expressed itself very critically in its opinion on the draft law. The Council stated that the initial text was unclear and too vague as to the impact on the rights and obligations of the persons insured, on the actors concerned and on the route of guidance. The Council of State also took the view that the authorization granted to the King was too broad. The article under discussion is even more vague and gives the King an even wider authorisation to regulate all the aspects mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, the question also arises as to how this can be reconciled with the Government's intention to increase the period of guaranteed wages paid by the employer to two months. If this element of the coalition agreement is actually implemented, the person unable to work will, for the first time, come into contact with those who have to succeed him after that two months after the declaration of incapacity for work. This would give the actors concerned only one month to work out a redeployment plan, which would not seem realistic. The change in the role of the doctors consulted in Article 147 of the draft directive also provokes criticism. Although we have no objections in principle to redeployment plans, we cannot support the government's draft in this respect for the reasons I have mentioned. I would also like to refer to the extension of the waiting period for the award of the disability allowance. This is also an unrealistic measure, which the majority itself admits by tabling an amendment to postpone the date of entry into force. In fact, the various social security institutions responsible for implementing the measure have indicated that they are currently technically unable to establish correctly the rights of those insured, as a result of the extension of the period taken into account, i.e. one month. On Article 159, which regulates the date of entry into force, we tabled an amendment with sp.a, which brings this date to 1 June 2015 for Articles 143 to 158, which concern the extension of the waiting period. Moreover, the extension has an antisocial impact as opposed to what the accountability suggests. The majority of cases of incapacity for work are short periods which do not differ from those of maternity protection, for which the waiting period remains the same. The sp.a has tabled an amendment to Articles 144, 146 and 149 to 158. With that amendment, we want to delete those articles. Thirdly, the compensation of unemployed people who become disabled will be reduced from 65% to 60%. Let me give you an example. For a head of household with a gross wage between EUR 1 500 and EUR 1 800, the unemployment benefit in the first three months of unemployment is EUR 1 135, which is more than the 60% he would receive under the new scheme decided by the government. With regard to the worker who falls ill and who is entitled to his full wage during the first month, the unemployed person is not protected at all during the first month of illness. In this context, as people with very low incomes will incur additional costs as a result of their illness, the government is threatening to push them into poverty. The same problem arises for disabled workers with very low reference income who receive a really low benefit after the end of the period during which they receive a guaranteed wage. For these reasons, we have tabled an amendment to Article 148, in order to bring the minimum statutory amount of invalidity benefits into force from the beginning of the first six-month period, so that the person concerned does not have to wait until the seventh month of incapacity for work to claim those minimum amounts. Finally, the government provides for heavier administrative penalties for incapacity for work in Article 160. That Article should be read in conjunction with Article 161 authorising the King to amend the basis for calculating unemployment benefits and disability benefits. The explanatory memorandum shows that the measure requires the social security institutions to make rather complex adjustments. It states that fraud in this area must be combated. However, the information is already available to payment institutions when they find that the latest monthly or daily wage has increased for no reason. That is why we have tabled these amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u154	Mr Mathot, who is now absent, says that 40% of the hospitals are now in financial difficulties. That's what I said. I'm not responsible for that. This situation is perhaps due to the fact that the Socialists have been there for many years and have not been able to prevent it. I have dealt with the third-payer scheme several times in committee. Mrs Pehlivan, you say that the reintegration plan cannot go into effect. The report on the committee's work states it twice. It has been clearly stated that an KB is being issued with the date of entry into force. Of course, this will not be on 1 January, because there is still consultation between the RIZIV and the employment services and there are still opinions from the social partners and the National Labour Council to follow. I have read the report well; it says it twice. So you can rest and sleep on your two ears. Mr Gilkinet, as far as the welfare envelope is concerned, as I have already made clear in committee, the social partners are given the opportunity to give more money to the most disadvantaged. If this law had been upheld, it would not have been possible. As far as reintegration is concerned, the Government wishes to strengthen the efforts already made to promote socio-occupational reintegration. Even if it is partial, it will bring added value to the interested parties. It is clear that, since these are chronic patients, decisions will be taken on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the opinion of the occupational doctor, the treating doctor, the medical adviser of the mutual concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u155	Minister, in your speech, you say that we have a lot of reservations. If I take the hospital with which we are shareholders, he has no reserves. The problem of reserves does not arise in this hospital. What is unfair is that hospitals set up in the form of co-operatives or public limited liability companies will be punctured on their reserves. On the other hand, those who will be erected in the form of an ASBL will not be. In this regard, I would like you to give me a few explanations, because from the moment that all are treated in the same way, I could understand the argument. But according to your theory, those who are constituted in ASBL – this is a majority of Flemish hospitals and I understand that you are comfortable with this measure – will not be punctured on their reserves. On the other hand, those who are in a cooperative society, while they are in the same profession – I do not think there are any differences in the services provided in the north or south of the country or in the form of any intercommunal – but there will be a differentiation of treatment according to the nature of the intercommunal. You're saying we have plenty of money and we're going to be able to pay. I heard your line and I think it's weird. But if you really want to get the money from the hospitals, because you think there are too many, I hear it, but I obviously cannot consider your decision to be justifiable.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u156	Madam Minister, as far as the generation pact is concerned, you have said that you are giving the social partners the ability to decide on the allocation of the welfare envelope. But the capacity already existed before you amended the law. In fact, you are changing the situation if the social partners do not agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u157	They did not deliver an opinion in September, so we are still giving them the opportunity to deliver one now. Otherwise, the assignment was automatic.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u158	To respond to your positive intention here, you could have changed the deadline for September 15, but you did not. The modification you are introducing...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u159	You have understood why we have acted in this way, as I said in committee as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u160	Do not tell me that you are amending the law to give the social partners the opportunity to decide, since you are not changing it in this direction. The change you are introducing is to say that if the social partners do not agree, the government will decide, while the pact provides for automatic allocation. I understand this government's commitment to raising the lowest allocations. I hope that there will be an agreement between the social partners on this issue, but if it does not intervene, we will check your intentions. The problem is that it is not enshrined in the law. You have withdrawn the sub-assignment rules and that seems problematic to me. With regard to those sick people who could return to work, depending on the physician-counsel, the personal physician and a wide range of stakeholders, I have no problem with the principle of providing them with suitable functions. My problem lies in the budget line, which explicitly provides for savings on expenditure on allowances for disabled or sick people. This shows that your objective is not a welfare objective but a budgetary one. We have counted dozens of such measures on the part of your government. You call into question all the structural measures of solidarity between the active and the sick or pensioners and weaken our system of solidarity. I can only regret it!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u161	Madam Secretary, I know that the draft states that there will be a KB for entry into force. The Council of State has made several comments on a number of uncertainties as to how consultation will be determined with the mutualities. Our amendment aims to allow entry into force from 1 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u162	Mr President, I shall briefly reply to Mr Gilkinet to tell him what I said during the night of Wednesday to Thursday; unfortunately he was not with us and we regretted that very much. The program law deals with two issues relating to pensions; only two issues, because we are not in the process of developing the overall pension reform that will be put in place. These are, first, frontier workers, where unanimity is fairly broad and, second, the pension bonus. I agree with Mr Gilkinet that some issues are very important and we will deal with them very quickly in the course of 2015. First, the minimum pension. The government has committed itself to raising it and, already, the allocation of the welfare envelope will revalue these pensions. We will go further because our goal is to go 10 per cent above the poverty line. Secondly, the relationship between pension reform and the labour market. You rightly point out that it is inconceivable to deal with pensions in isolation from the labour market. To do this, we will begin the study of two important issues. The first is the concept of partial pension. It is important to organize, with greater flexibility, the transition from the period of activity to the rest period. The second concerns the tenability of work and the definition of heavy occupations. This key file will be reviewed as part of the National Pension Committee that we will create in the first quarter of 2015. It will involve the government and the social partners, as well as the federated entities and, I hope, the local authorities. As far as the pension bonus is concerned, I repeat what I have already said. First, the pension bonus should be placed in the context of raising the early pension ages. This process has already begun during the previous legislature and is continuing today. The age and career duration of the pension bonus will be gradually increased. In the end, it will only be possible to benefit people with a career of between 42 and 45 years. This is the reason why this subject will be less and less, if ever, about small pensions. In fact, people who have started their professional careers at the age of 18 or 20 are usually people who do not receive the largest pensions: they are occupations which do not require extensive training and which do not result in very high wages or therefore high pensions. These people who have worked hard all their life from the age of 18 and who have 43 or 44 years of career, it is not for them that the pension bonus is intended. We're not going to ask them to work 47 or 48 years. That's not the point. Moreover, it is not by chance that the measure does not work. Almost no one in Belgium takes their pension bonus. Let us stop fantasizing about this measure which is a total failure! It is so true that the previous government had decided to halve it. We know that the total amount is 17 million out of 36,000 million. In addition, all agencies, such as the Committee on Ageing, recognized that it had no impact. Mr Gilkinet, I am always quoting you in conclusion. When a Member of Parliament declares something in the House that I believe is essential, I repeat it, and that will be my conclusion. On 10 December, Mr Gilkinet said: "The pension bonus benefits mainly those who do not need it".
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u163	Minister, I am very honoured, as every time you quote me. I will therefore complete the quotation: the pension bonus, as it exists today, does not work perfectly in the sense that it is not redistributive. Minister, why didn't you change it instead of deleting it? Why do you apply punitive rather than reformative logic? I am not going to resume the whole debate that took place two nights ago. Simply, when you say you're going to increase with the lowest welfare envelope, that's not true. The index jump is going to cost 2%. You then have an envelope of 127 million which, according to what we have understood, will increase by 1%, which has been reduced by 2%. There is still a 1% differential. We will see if your group accepts our amendment on the lack of indexation of the tax cuts that benefit two million pensioners. You're going to raise taxes for the latter, who are the most vulnerable people. If that's how you raise the lowest pension levels, then we don't have the same values or the same way to calculate. As this is not on the agenda of the programme law, I do not want to prolong this debate unnecessarily. But I am already telling you that there will be one on this issue and that we will not let you take bladders for lanterns.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, the remaining speakers have been removed from the list of speakers. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u165	We begin by discussing the articles of the draft programme law. The text adopted by the committees is the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (672/15) We move on to the discussion of the clauses in the program bill. The text adopted by the committees serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (672/15) The draft programme law contains 215 articles. The draft programme law has 215 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u166	Art. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 4 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 5 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 35 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 6 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 35 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) • 44 - Georges Gilkinet (672/16) • 45 - Georges Gilkinet (672/16) Art. 7 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 35 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 8 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 35 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 9 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 35 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 10 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 35 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 11 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 35 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 12 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 35 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) • 46 - Georges Gilkinet (672/16) Art. 13 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 35 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 14 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 35 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 15 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 35 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 16 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 35 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 16/1(n) • 31 - Benoît Dispa (672/16) Art. 17 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 21 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 17/1(n) • 23 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) • 30 - Benoît Dispa (672/16) • 42 - Benoît Dispa (672/16) Art. 18 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 21 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 19 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 21 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 20 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 21 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 21 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 21 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 22 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 21 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 23 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 21 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 24 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 21 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 25 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 21 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 26 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 21 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) • 22 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 27 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 21 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 28 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 29 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 30 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 31 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 32 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 33 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 34 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 35 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 36 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 37 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 38 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 39 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 40 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 41 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 8 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) Art. 42 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 8 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) Art. 43 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 8 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) Art. 44 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 8 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) Art. 45 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 8 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) Art. 46 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 8 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) Art. 47 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 8 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) Art. 48 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 8 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) Art. 49 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 8 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) Art. 50 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 8 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) Art. 51 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 52 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 53 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 54 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 55 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 56 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 57 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 58 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 59 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 60 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 61 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 62 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 63 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 64 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 65 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 66 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 67 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 68 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 69 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 70 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 71 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 72 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 73 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 74 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 75 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 76 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 77 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 78 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 79 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 80 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 81 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 82 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 83 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 84 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 85 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 86 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 87 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 88 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 89 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 90 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 91 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 92 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 93 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 94 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 95 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 96 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 97 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 98 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 99 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 47 - Georges Gilkinet (672/16) Art. 100 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 101 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 48 - Georges Gilkinet (672/16) Art. 102 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 103 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 104 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 105 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 106 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 107 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 108 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 109 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 110 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 111 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 112 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 113 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 113/1(n) • 9 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) • 10 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) • 43 - Meyrem Almaci cs (672/16) Art. 113/2(n) • 11 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) • 43 - Meyrem Almaci cs (672/16) Art. 113/3(n) • 12 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) • 43 - Meyrem Almaci cs (672/16) Art. 113/4(n) • 13 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) Art. 113/5(n) • 14 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) Art. 113/6(n) • 15 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) Art. 113/7(n) • 16 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) Art. 113/8(n) • 17 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) Art. 113/9(n) • 18 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) Art. 113/10(n) • 19 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) Art. 113/11(n) • 20 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (672/16) Art. 113/12(n) • 36 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) • 37 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 113/13(n) • 38 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 113/14(n) • 39 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 113/15(n) • 40 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 113/16(n) • 41 - Stéphane Crusnière cs (672/16) Art. 114 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 115 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 116 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 117 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 118 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 119 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 120 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 121 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 122 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 123 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 124 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 125 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 126 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 127 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 128 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 129 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 130 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 131 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 132 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 133 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 134 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 135 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 136 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 137 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 25 - Maya Detiège cs (672/16) Art. 138 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 139 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 26 - Maya Detiège cs (672/16) Art. 140 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 141 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 142 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 143 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 27 - Maya Detiège cs (672/16) Art. 144 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 28 - Maya Detiège cs (672/16) Art. 145 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 146 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 147 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 148 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 149 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 150 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 151 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 152 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 4 - Fatma Pehlivan (672/16) Art. 153 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 154............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 5 – Fatma Pehlivan cs (672/16) Art. 155 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 5 – Fatma Pehlivan cs (672/16) Art. 156 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 5 – Fatma Pehlivan cs (672/16) Art. 157 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 158 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 3 - Fatma Pehlivan cs (672/16) Art. 159............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 5 - Fatma Pehlivan cs (672/16) Art. 160 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 5 - Fatma Pehlivan cs (672/16) Art. 161 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 5 - Fatma Pehlivan cs (672/16) Art. 162 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 5 - Fatma Pehlivan cs (672/16) Art. 163 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 5 - Fatma Pehlivan cs (672/16) Art. 164 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 5 - Fatma Pehlivan cs (672/16) Art. 165 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 5 - Fatma Pehlivan cs (672/16) Art. 166............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 5 - Fatma Pehlivan cs (672/16) Art. 167 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 5 - Fatma Pehlivan cs (672/16) Art. 168 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 5 - Fatma Pehlivan cs (672/16) Art. 169............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 170 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 171 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 172 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 173 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 174 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 6 - Fatma Pehlivan cs (672/16) Art. 175 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) • 6 - Fatma Pehlivan cs (672/16) Art. 175/1(n) • 7 - Fatma Pehlivan cs (672/16) Art. 176 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 177 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 178 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 179 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 180 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 181 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 182 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 183 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 184 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 185 • 29 - Marco Van Hees cs (672/16) Art. 195 • 32 - Emir Kir cs (672/16) Art. 196 • 33 - Emir Kir cs (672/16) • 34 - Emir Kir cs (672/16) Art. 203 • 1 - Meryame Kitir cs (672/16) Art. 204 • 1 - Meryame Kitir cs (672/16) Art. 205 • 24 - An Vanheste cs (672/16) Art. 206............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. • 24 - An Vanheste cs (672/16) Art. 208/1(n) • 2 - Meryame Kitir cs (672/16) Art. 208/2(n) • 2 - Meryame Kitir cs (672/16) Art. 208/3(n) • 2 - Meryame Kitir cs (672/16) The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. * * * * * * * Decision of the article-by-article discussion: Conclusion of the discussion of the articles: Reserved: the vote on amendments and Articles 2 to 185, 195, 196 and 203 to 206. Held: the vote on the amendments and Articles 2 to 185, 195, 196 and 203 to 206. Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 186 to 194, 197 to 202 and 207 to 215.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u167	****** Colleagues, we agreed to vote at exactly 19:00. That is why I shall suspend the sitting for four minutes. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u168	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u169	Vote on Amendment No 29 by Marco Van Hees cs. leaving Articles 2 to 185. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Marco Van Hees cs. to delete articles 2 to 185. (672/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 44 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 2, 3 and 4 were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 2, 3 and 4 were adopted. Vote on Amendment No 35 by Stéphane Crusnière cs. leaving Articles 5 to 16. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 35 by Stéphane Crusnière cs. to delete articles 5 to 16. (672/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[40]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 44 by Georges Gilkinet on Article 6. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 44 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 6. (672/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 50 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 45 by Georges Gilkinet on Article 6. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 45 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 6. (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u170	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Articles 7 to 11 have been adopted. Articles 7 to 11 were adopted. Vote on Amendment No 46 by Georges Gilkinet to omit Article 12. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 46 by Georges Gilkinet to delete Article 12. (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u171	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Articles 13 to 16 have been adopted. Articles 13 to 16 were adopted. Vote on Amendment No 31 from Benoît Dispa to insert an article 16/1(n). (672/16) Vote on amendment No. 31 by Benoît Dispa to insert an article 16/1(n). (672/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[39]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Stéphane Crusnière cs. leaving Articles 17 to 27. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Stéphane Crusnière cs. to delete articles 17 to 27. (672/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 17 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 17 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 23 by Stéphane Crusnière cs. inserting an Article 17/1(n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Stéphane Crusnière cs. to insert an article 17/1(n). (672/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. (Mrs Sarah Smeyers voted against) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Benoît Dispa inserting an article 17/1(n). (672/16) Vote on amendment No. 30 by Benoît Dispa to insert an article 17/1(n). (672/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 42 of Benoît Dispa introducing an article 17/1(n). (672/16) Vote on amendment No. 42 by Benoît Dispa to insert an article 17/1(n). (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u172	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Articles 18 to 25 have been adopted. Articles 18 to 25 were adopted. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Stéphane Crusnière cs. to Article 26. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Stéphane Crusnière cs. Article 26. (672/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[38]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 26 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 26 was adopted. Articles 27 to 40 have been adopted. Articles 27 to 40 were adopted. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs. leaving Articles 41 to 50. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs. to delete articles 41 to 50. (672/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 48 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Articles 41 to 50 were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 41 to 50 were adopted. Articles 51 to 98 have been adopted. Articles 51 to 98 were adopted. Vote on Amendment No 47 by Georges Gilkinet on Article 99. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 47 by Georges Gilkinet to Rule 99. (672/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 48 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 99 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 99 was adopted. Rule 100 has been adopted. Article 100 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 48 from Georges Gilkinet on Article 101. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 48 by Georges Gilkinet to Rule 101. (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u173	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 101 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 101 was adopted. Articles 102 to 113 have been adopted. Articles 102 to 113 were adopted. Vote on Amendment No 43 from Meyrem Almaci cs to include Articles 113/1 (n) to 113/3 (n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 43 by Meyrem Almaci cs to insert Articles 113/1 (n) to 113/3 (n). (672/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Delpérée voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 113/1 (n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 113/1 (n). (672/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[46]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 113/1 (n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 113/1 (n). (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u174	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 113/2 (n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 113/2 (n). (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u175	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 113/3 (n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 113/3 (n). (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u176	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 113/4 (n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 113/4 (n). (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u177	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 113/5 (n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 113/5 (n). (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u178	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 15 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 113/6 (n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 113/6 (n). (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u179	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 16 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 113/7 (n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 113/7 (n). (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u180	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 17 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 113/8 (n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 113/8 (n). (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u181	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 113/9 (n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 113/9 (n). (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u182	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 113/10 (n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 113/10 (n). (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u183	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 20 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 113/11 (n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 113/11 (n).(672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u184	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 36 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an article 113/12 (n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 36 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an Article 113/12 (n). (672/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[40]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 37 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an article 113/12 (n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 37 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an Article 113/12 (n). (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u185	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 38 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an article 113/13 (n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 38 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an Article 113/13 (n). (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u186	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 39 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an article 113/14 (n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 39 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an Article 113/14 (n). (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u187	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 40 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an article 113/15 (n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 40 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an Article 113/15 (n). (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u188	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 41 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an article 113/16 (n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 41 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert an Article 113/16 (n). (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u189	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Articles 114 to 136 have been adopted. Articles 114 to 136 were adopted. Vote on Amendment No 25 by Maya Detiège cs on Article 137. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Maya Detiège cs to Rule 137. (672/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[40]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 137 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 137 was adopted. Rule 138 has been adopted. Article 138 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 26 of Maya Detiège cs for the deletion of Article 139. Vote on Amendment No 26 by Maya Detiège cs to delete Rule 139. Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u190	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 139 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 139 was adopted. Articles 140 to 142 have been adopted. Articles 140 to 142 are adopted. Vote on Amendment No 27 of Maya Detiège cs on Article 143. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Maya Detiège cs to Rule 143. (672/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes [[40]] Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 143 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 143 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 28 of Maya Detiège cs on Article 144. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Maya Detiège cs to Rule 144. (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u191	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 144 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 144 was adopted. Articles 145 to 151 have been adopted. Articles 145 to 151 were adopted. Vote on Amendment No 4 from Fatma Pehlivan to the deletion of Article 152. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Fathma Pehlivan to delete Rule 152. (672/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 48 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 152 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 152 was adopted. Rule 153 has been adopted. Article 153 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 5 from Fatma Pehlivan cs to the exclusion of Articles 154 to 156 and 159 to 168. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Fathma Pehlivan cs to delete Articles 154 to 156 and 159 to 168. (672/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes [[40]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Articles 154 to 156 were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 154 to 156 were adopted. Rule 157 has been adopted. Article 157 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Fatma Pehlivan cs on article 158. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Fathma Pehlivan cs to Rule 158. (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can it be considered? That the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u192	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 158 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 158 was adopted. Articles 159 to 173 have been adopted. Articles 159 to 173 were adopted. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Fatima Pehlivan cs to delete Articles 174 and 175. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Fatima Pehlivan cs to delete Articles 174 and 175. (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u193	The amendment was therefore rejected and Articles 174 and 175 were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 174 and 175 were adopted. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Fatima Pehlivan cs to insert an article 175/1 (n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Fatima Pehlivan cs to insert an Article 175/1 (n). (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u194	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Articles 176 to 185 have been adopted. Articles 176 to 185 were adopted. Vote on Amendment No 32 by Emir Kir cs for the deletion of Article 195. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 32 by Emir Kir cs to delete Rule 195. (672/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 48 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 195 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 195 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 33 by Emir Kir cs for the deletion of Article 196. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Emir Kir cs to delete Rule 196. (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u195	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 34 by Emir Kir cs on Article 196. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Emir Kir cs to Rule 196. (672/16) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u196	The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 196 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 196 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 1 by Meryame Kitir cs for the deletion of Articles 203 and 204. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Meryame Kitir cs to delete Rule 203 in 204. (672/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Articles 203 and 204 were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 203 and 204 were adopted. Vote on Amendment No 24 by An Vanheste to the exclusion of Articles 205 and 206. (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 24 by An Vanheste to delete Articles 205 and 206. (672/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 48 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Articles 205 and 206 were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 205 and 206 were adopted. Vote on Amendment No 2 from Meryame Kitir cs to insert Articles 208/1(n) to 208/3 (n). (672/16) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Meryame Kitir cs to insert Articles 208/1(n) to 208/3(n). (672/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 48 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u197	Colleagues, we have almost come to the end of our 2014 work. I assume that we can rest for a few days now, that we will have time for family and friends and to deal with some lighter things than what we have done over the past three days. The year 2014 was a very busy political year for the country: the adoption of the sixth reform of the state, the parliamentary elections in May and the establishment of a new majority in early October. The new government quickly began to work under difficult circumstances. In this regard, I hope that our Assembly will be even more a forum for debate, exchange and openness to the ideas of others. As Speaker of the House, I will ensure that this diversity of opinions, the guarantee of quality parliamentary work, can be preserved. This House allows for the expression of a wide range of opinions. Let us be far-sighted enough to discuss the problems in depth and, without compromising the gains in too radical a way, leave room for alternatives. Ladies and gentlemen, there will also be a great deal of work in 2015. I hope that thorough work will be done, work that will benefit the present and future generations. In the light of the upcoming Christmas and New Year's Eve party, I would like to wish each of you a very good health and congratulations. On behalf of our Assembly, I also offer my best wishes to the Prime Minister and the members of the Government. I thank them for their cooperation in the proper conduct of our activities. I would also like to thank the press for the way in which they have reported on our work during the year. Finally, I thank the Clerk and all staff for their collaboration and their work of quality and excellence. [[Applause]] I also wish them good health and many existential satisfactions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u198	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is rightly said that the legislative power is the heart of democracy. Let us be clear: without all these experts around us, we would not be able to achieve our mission. Therefore, as you have done, Mr President, I would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, the clerks, translators, bailiffs, committee secretaries, you too, ladies and gentlemen, who ensure, often in the shadows, the proper functioning of our assembly, sitting records, catering, cleaning, maintenance, concierge, guarding, security or other technical occupations, all of you whom we see every day or less often and who do your work with skill, smile and efficiency. I would like to thank them and wish each of them a Merry Christmas and a very nice 2015 on behalf of all my fellow Members. I also take this opportunity to pay tribute to Kathleen Delafontaine, who is the last interpreter at our disposal today. Thank you, ma'am, for your great work and career. I love this country, but from time to time, when it rains too much, I will think of you and your choice to flourish under a more gentle Roman sky. I also want to salute all journalists. Some of them have taken the step and are members of our meeting. For the others it is the permanent difficulty. Journalists are, depending on the period, their articles or analyses, celebrated or honored by politicians. Sometimes, during the same day, they have the right to smile and then to the wrath of the chosen. The truth is that the vast majority of them simply do their job. Today, on behalf of Parliament, I want to thank them for relaying these debates, which are the culmination of political action. We thank you and wish you a beautiful Christmas truce. [[Applause]] Mr President, we know the difficulty of your task: constantly seeking balance, somewhat setting aside his temperament and spending hours and hours listening soberly to parliamentarians and noting that sometimes they repeat themselves a little too much. Patience is one of the most important qualities of a presiding officer. I therefore wish you, during these fifteen days of truce, to let go, to be impatient, volubile, more partial than ever to come back wise and Zen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u199	I take this opportunity, of course, to thank the clerk whose work is truly appreciated by all. Ladies and gentlemen, the beginning of this session was high in colour. These places have reasoned for the enthusiasms and indignations of each other. This parliament lives and vibrates. No atony, no resignation. This is where we express our beliefs and, leaving aside a single moment of hysteria, we have held debates worthy of our Assembly. With a special congratulations to the new parliamentarians who threw themselves into the arena body and soul! To everyone, a very merry Christmas and above all, rest well! Reload your accuses and meet us in January for new adventures!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u200	Thank you, Mrs Onkelinx, for your warm words. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the final vote. Excuse me, Prime Minister, you can see that my impartiality and my desire to serve the opposition leads so far as I am overlooking you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u201	Mr. President, after Laurette Onkelinx we're not much of a thing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say a few words of thanks today. Like Mrs Onkelinx and yourself, Mr President, I would of course like to thank all the staff of this House. Whatever your responsibilities, your function, you carry out very important tasks of support, support for democratic debate and parliamentarians, the government, the president, we would have little to do without your ability to demonstrate professionalism, attention to ensure the capacity to conduct debates in a qualitative manner. Thank you also to all the members of the staff of the assembly and thank you, of course, to Ms. Mr President, thank you too. We share this common point of being "young" in the functions we both perform. We are well aware that this beginning of the legislature has been marked, let's say, by a little enthusiasm, atmosphere, atmosphere in this House and I would like to sincerely, on behalf of the government, to thank you for all the efforts you are making to ensure that this heart of democracy that Parliament constitutes can resonate with respect for different expressions in accordance with the convictions that we share. I would like to thank the opposition. I would like to thank you for your strong enthusiasm in the debates. I want from the bottom of my heart to thank you for this vitality that has characterized you in recent weeks and to allow me, with great humility, a counsel for these few days of rest that we may have. Enjoy it! Get some rest. Do some yoga, some massages to relax. I'm not just talking to Mrs. Onkelinx. The government intends to do a lot of work in 2015. We intend to bring many subjects, many debates in this House. We hope that there will be the capacity to debate and exchange arguments. Finally, of course, I would also like to thank the members of the majority. They have made excellent choices, they have defended excellent arguments and, above all, they have voted very well. Thank you for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u202	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (672/17) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (672/17)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-19-54-plenair-ip025x.u203	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 8 January 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, January 8, 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 8 January 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 8 January 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
