ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u1	Mr President, I intended to turn my question into a written question. But since she was joined to Mr. Maingain's, who is asking the same questions as me, I am going to ask her. Minister, congratulations on your new office. Since the division of the judicial district of Brussels-Hal-Vilvorde, there has been a significant shortage of French-speaking clerks. In fact, most of the bilingual clerks of the pre-scission era were Dutch-speaking, and they thus joined the jurisdiction of their language after the split. The French-speaking courts in Brussels lacked appointed clerks and appealed, pending the solution to this problem, to clerks acting. Minister, are you aware of this situation? What are the organizational consequences for these jurisdictions? What is the status of these clerks in office? To what extent can they legally exercise that function, and with what limits? Do they have an opportunity to apply for an appointment? Have procedures been put in place to recruit new Francophone clerks? When can we hope for a solution to the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I am also pleased to learn that you are going to assume the responsibilities in this committee. I am also pleased to note that we are going to have a Minister of Justice who, by virtue of his formation and the exercise of his previous profession, will certainly show an interest in this sector of justice which, alas, has been largely affected for several years by successive government decisions. This is likely to be discussed again with regard to your policy note. Nevertheless, I hope that we will have a more comprehensive dialogue than we have known with your predecessor, who did not always have full control over the technical aspects of his files. I won't say any more because she's not here. I am very pleased that Mrs Jadin is concerned about the issue, because, in short, that is the prediction I had made at the time of the analysis of the reform of the State. I am pleased to hear now the representatives of the parties associated with the reform of the State admit that the consequences are those we have announced, namely that the linguistic division of the courts, which is not in itself a bad decision, was not properly prepared by those who drafted the reform of the State and who did not properly appreciate its practical consequences. Therefore, I can only be pleased to see that one person, once again, is right about our findings today. Of course, the press reported, in particular at the end of September, a shortage of clerks. Of the 125 clerks of the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels, there are 69 delegations, i.e. clerks from outside the courts. Thus, at the tribunal de commerce francophone, the staff of the registry offices are at this point affected – a result of a long policy of unilateral engagement on the Dutch-speaking side – that the work is no longer done! Not only are we faced with the lack of budgetary resources, but we are also faced with the lack of staff and the resulting shortcomings in the proper functioning of the justice system. I would like to know the precise state of the number of clerks and registrars who are missing at the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels. I would also like to know whether the workload has finally been properly assessed at the transplant level. In fact, again, it is because one never wanted to properly assess the workload at the transplant level that one finds one with imbalances between jurisdictions according to the linguistic roles. Is there no need for a new study on objective grounds which could finally establish a fair distribution of staff among the registries of the different jurisdictions? I will also have to be told how, under the budgetary constraints announced by the government, there will be an opportunity to recruit sufficiently the number of clerks necessary for the proper functioning of the justice system in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to look forward to working together with your committee. I hope that our cooperation will take place under the best possible conditions, as was the case with the Finance Committee. Of course, you are lawyers, not men and women of numbers. But I do not mean here that the lawyers do not master the latter, on the contrary. Ms Jadin, Mr.Maingain, you referred to the duplication of Brussels courts on 31 March 2014, and thus to the creation of French- and Dutch-speaking courts, in accordance with the law of 19 July 2012 on the reform of the judicial district of Brussels. In particular, this Act provides that the former bilingual courts in Brussels, namely the Court of First Instance, the Commercial Court, the Labour Court and the Police Court, are split to have specifically French-speaking and Dutch-speaking courts. The final frameworks were established after measuring the workload that had been carried out. In preparing for this duplication, it had already been found that the number of clerks in some French-speaking courts was insufficient to fill the cadre of clerks. In order to have enough clerks, a comparative selection of recruitment for level B was made at the end of 2012 and, after a supplementary examination, several clerks were appointed. However, the number of candidates nominated to date is not sufficient to fill all positions. I would remind you that in order to be definitively appointed, one third of the clerks must be functional bilinguals. The remaining posts have been the subject of several publications to fill vacancies. In order not to compromise the functioning of the courts, a number of staff members were delegated by ministerial decree to the office of Registrar, as provided for in article 330 of the Judicial Code. This is not new. Already before the duplication of the courts, a large number of clerks' posts had been assigned by delegation to a higher function because of language requirements. The BHV Act of 19 July 2012 even expressly refers to this. Delegation to a higher function shall be granted for a period of six months and may be extended three times for the same period. Upon expiry of the third extension, the allocation of the delegation may be maintained in specific cases, in particular where the employment could not be permanently conferred. The persons in question may apply for the position provided that they meet the conditions of appointment, i.e. to be a winner of a comparative selection. With regard to language requirements, the requirement for in-depth knowledge of both languages for all registrars was replaced by functional bilingualism for one third of the clerks' cadre. The methodology for language examinations was adapted by Royal Decree of 25 March 2014. Additional language examinations are also held in 2014. It goes without saying that the vacant places will again be published. I would like to say, in my personal capacity, that in other boroughs or provinces where functional bilingualism is not required, we also find it difficult to recruit enough clerks. For example, in Hasselt, which is no longer part of Liège, we encounter problems in finding enough candidates.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u4	Minister, thank you for these answers. You want to be reassuring with regard to future recruitment and the solutions proposed to remedy this problem seem good to me. All this must now be implemented as quickly as possible. The effectiveness of justice is at stake. I agree with you on your last point. It is obvious that the judicial district of Eupen sometimes encounters recruitment problems for linguistic reasons. I will have more questions about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u5	Minister, I did not get a response to a number of figures. How many clerks are currently vacant at the Registry of the French-speaking Court of First Instance? Unless you can provide me with this answer immediately, I will then put a written question to you. How many places are vacant in the actual setting? You are very much invoking the linguistic aspect. The linguistic aspect can always play, but it is true that today, places are vacant even for the part, therefore of two thirds, of the clerks who must not be bilingual functional. Even for this part, there is a difficulty of recruiting, of complementing the workforce. What's this got to do with? Quite simply to the historical imbalance within the registry, or the transplants, of the Brussels courts which, I had made the state of it by written parliamentary questions, had in its time experienced recruitments nevertheless very oriented on one side on one side on the linguistic level. This, of course, is the consequence. In addition, the workload, as assessed for the establishment of managers, was totally challenged at the time by the judges of the courts. Today, it is considered that the framework falls short of reality. That's why I was asking you about the willingness to have a new tool or a new workload assessment. Finally, the essential question is: can you assure me that there will not be, by means of the budget cuts which are announced again in your department, an infringement of the framework established by necessity in the courts concerned, particularly with regard to the registries?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u6	Mr Maingain, I would like to respond to your first comment. I don't have the exact number, but you can ask me by means of a written question. However, if I had this information this afternoon, I will share it with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u7	Mr President, Minister, this is a specific case that has been brought to my attention. Article 39 of the Royal Decree of 11 July 2002 laying down general regulations on the right to social integration provides that, where a person who receives the income from integration granted by the CPAS is to serve a sentence of imprisonment as a result of an offence, this allowance shall be interrupted upon entry into the prison. In the past, prisons had been transmitting prison notes to the CPAS of the prisoners concerned for proper follow-up, but that practice had ceased to be used some time ago. As a result of what appears to be an interruption of communication between the two public institutions, many problems arise. Prisons recommend that inmates notify CPAS of their situation, but some of them do not. When CPAS accidentally learns of the imprisonment of one of their beneficiaries, they interrupt the payment of the allowance, but the sums unduly collected before it occurs are punished upon discharge from prison. Since this sanction obviously consists in a refund of the payments unduly received, but also in the suspension of social rights for a specified period, all the parties concerned lose out on this situation. Indeed, the sanction undermines the reintegration of newly released prisoners, or even encourages them to turn to criminal behaviour again, while at the same time constituting an obstacle to the proper management of the CPAS. In fact, many CPAS are already struggling to close their budgets. Minister, why did the prisons stop sending copies of the nuts to the CPAS? Could this earlier procedure, which seemed to be a better collaboration between the two public institutions and was practised with strict respect for mutual confidentiality, be re-established?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, the practice you are talking about is not unanimous in Belgium. Some establishments warned CPAS of nuts, others did not. Moreover, the transmission of such information is not regulated by law, which poses problems in terms of privacy protection. This is why another practice has taken place that requires the detainee, like any responsible citizen, to notify the competent authorities himself or give his consent to the transmission of information. In the current legal context, this is the only right solution. However, the situation is expected to improve significantly during this legislature. The government agreement provides for a link between Sidis Suite, which reproduces the record of detention by electronic means, and Banque-Carrefour de la sécurité sociale. Once this link has been achieved from a technical and legal point of view, CPAS will have the opportunity to verify for themselves which social beneficiaries are held.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u9	Minister, thank you. I take note. I will review your answer and see if there is still a need to address a lack of legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u10	Mr President, Minister, since the establishment of the Family and Youth Court on September 1, 2014, there has been uncertainty as to which court is competent to hear appeals from the decisions of the justices of the peace on that date. The law does not contain a transitional measure to resolve this jurisdictional problem. Two theses oppose each other. According to some, it is the date of the motion for appeal that counts and all applications filed after September 1 must be filed with the Court of Appeal. According to others, it is the date of the decision of the justice of the peace that counts: if it is before 1 September, the appeal must be lodged with the court of first instance, and if it is after that date, it must be addressed to the court of appeal. As a result, there is currently no alternative but to file applications before both courts. It is therefore necessary to pay twice the right of appeal of 210 euros and there is a risk of paying procedural compensation to the court which declares itself to be incompetent. According to the interpretations, it is not excluded that the two courts should do so! In any case, the cost of this undermines the right of access to justice and it also poses a problem of legal certainty, you will agree. Minister, my questions are therefore quite simple, since this is the interpretation of the law. Are you aware of this problem? In your opinion, can a thesis be preferred with certainty and if so, is there a legal basis for favouring it? Are you considering taking a transitional step quickly to clarify this matter from the competent court to hear appeals from the decisions of the justices of the peace?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, subject to the fact that it is not for me to interpret the laws, since this power belongs to the courts and tribunals, it can be found that the transitional provisions of the Act of 30 July 2013 establishing a family and youth court do not explicitly resolve the question you are asking. Reference should therefore be made to the ordinary law of the proceedings, in particular article 3 of the Judicial Code, which states that "the laws of judicial organization, jurisdiction and procedure shall apply to proceedings in progress without the divestiture of the court which, to its degree, had been validly brought before it and except for the exceptions provided for by law." As the professors of Leval and Georges note in their Judicial Law Manual, article 3 contains a principle and an exception. The principle is the immediate application of the new law not only to future trials but also to the future effects of ongoing trials, i.e. those that still need to be tried when the new provisions come into force. The exception to the principle is, however, that there will be no divestiture of the court which, to its degree, was validly seized of the dispute. There is therefore a survival of the old law of jurisdiction or of judicial organization for the benefit of the judge duly seized. Article 3 states that this exception shall apply to the court which, to its degree, was validly seized of the pending trial. Professor Closet-Marchal noted in this regard that the derogation from immediate application only operates at and for the level of jurisdiction at which one is located. Thus, the call is another degree. Therefore, a judge of the first instance duly seised remains competent, but the appeal judge will be the judge of the newly appointed judge as competent. It is deduced that if an appeal is brought after the new law comes into force, the case will be heard by the new court with jurisdiction over the degree of appeal. In this connection, mention may be made of a judgment of the Court of Cassation of 3 February 1972 on an appeal brought after the entry into force of the Judicial Code against a judgment handed down against a justice of the peace before the latter in respect of compensation for damage suffered as a result of an accident at work. However, other authors consider that for the determination of the competent appellate judge, article 3 above requires the application of the law applicable on the day of the judgement of first instance. A judgment of the Court of Cassation of 6 October 1999 in criminal matters stating that, in the event of an amendment to the law on remedies, however, the law in force on the day of the decision governing the remedies against it is invoked in that regard. As I have indicated, it is not for me to interpret the law, but, on the other hand, pursuant to section 273 of the Act of July 30, 2013, the Minister of Justice and the Minister with the families in charge will conduct an assessment of the application of the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u12	Minister, thank you. It doesn't require more comment, except that the judicial law always makes me a little bit of a head, even a few years after my studies. In any case, it is very important to have received these clarifications, since these questions, as you may know, come from the judiciary. We will be very happy to be able to transmit your answer to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u13	Mr. de Leval is also an excellent teacher.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u14	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u15	Mr. Chair, Minister, it had been announced that all public servants who had passed the Levels B and C review would, after 18 months, automatically be appointed to the rank above that to which they were previously ranked. Some FPS Justice officials involved in these reviews were surprised not to see this automatic promotion arrive after the deadline and therefore tried to know the reason. In response, the administration informed them that members of the judiciary were excluded from this automatic promotion procedure. However, they could not identify the legal basis for this exclusion. Minister, my questions about this are as follows. Are you aware of this situation? Have you been contacted about this? Is this an error or do you confirm the information that has been communicated by the administration to the individuals concerned? For what reason(s) are members of the judiciary subject to different procedures at the promotion level than those applicable to other officers of the other CPS? What is the legal basis for this particular provision? As a matter of fact, why don't we make an adjustment to put all federal public servants on the same footing?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, you refer to a mechanism provided for in Article 29a, § 5 of the Royal Decree of 7 August 1939 organising the assessment and career of State agents. However, these provisions apply only to federal public servants. The articles of the federal public service provide that when the recipient of a promotion selection is not offered a position at the higher level in his or her organization within 18 months of the closing of the selection, he or she is automatically promoted to the higher level. However, this mechanism is part of the personnel envelopes of the federal authorities. In view of the separation of powers, judicial personnel are considered to be a particular body with their own status enshrined in the Judicial Code and in a number of implementing orders. In the case of judicial staff, staff officers are set by law as regards clerks and by royal decree as regards secretaries and administrative staff. The number of posts at each level is therefore regulated and is not as flexible as a staff envelope. Successful candidates of a comparative selection for promotion may apply for the vacant posts at the relevant level published in the Belgian Monitor. Depending on their ranking at the end of the comparative selection or a supplementary comparative examination, they are appointed to a specific vacant position. This makes it possible to match promotions with the particularities of the different types of jurisdiction. The principle of automatic promotion is therefore not included in the statute of the judiciary and is therefore not provided for. Moreover, the FPS Finance has never issued any communication to the attention of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u17	Minister, this is a very unfortunate situation. I understand that there is no specific provision for their status in the Judicial Code, but they are, nevertheless, public servants who pass examinations, who have ambition, which I fully understand; this can help improve the effectiveness of federal services. Consideration may need to be given to improving the presentation of these examinations organized by the federal services and making them more attractive to those who want to pass them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Karin Temmerman's 25, 26 and 27 are being postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh's 77th meeting was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u19	Mr President, Minister, first of all I would like to welcome the fact that we have at last a lawyer at the head of the Department of Justice but who has made a detour by the Ministry of Finance. When you see the state of disbursement of this department, you think it's probably very good: you're going to be able to put order. Minister, the procedure of direct summons as it currently exists provides that when police officers arrest a suspect in the context of a flagrante delicto, he is made available to the public prosecutor, whether to be heard or not, and receives a summons to appear within 3 weeks/one month. However, it comes to my mind that a circular dated 6 September 2014 from the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office would provide for a test phase where the part "made available and heard" by the public prosecutor is overtaken and the summons to appear is immediately handed over by the police officers. As part of this test, police officers, in agreement with the Public Prosecutor's Office, would choose one theme (one offence or one territory) per week and per area on which they will work. They would be entitled to four summonses per test week. For example, in October the test theme would be shoplifting and in November it would be "Matongé". Minister, my questions are as follows. Do you confirm the existence of this circular? If so, is this an initiative of the Public Prosecutor's Office, have the Attorney-Generals been coordinated? Is this legal in relation to the law on direct citation? Can you give me this circular? Is it there because we can't find it anywhere? If so, how do you justify that it is the police that chooses the topics, since it is not legally the police that has jurisdiction to define the prosecution guidelines?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u20	Mrs Khattabi, thank you for this question. The Government and the Parliament, together with the Law of 11 July 1994 on the Police Courts and on certain provisions relating to the acceleration and modernization of the criminal justice system, wanted to provide a prompt judicial response to urban crime and the misdemeanours that could be found in flagrante delicto. The lack of an appropriate and rapid response to such offences created a sense of insecurity among citizens and reinforced the sense of impunity among perpetrators. One of the new means thus created was the procedure for calling a report as currently defined in article 216 quater of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This article was amended by the Act of 13 April 2005 amending various legal provisions in criminal matters and criminal procedure with a view to combating the backlog of cases and by the Act of 24 July 2008 on various provisions. The latter Act also included article 645 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This article stipulates that police officers, prison directors and representatives of prison directors may be charged by the Public Prosecutor's Office, like judicial officers, but without cost of service or notification of all judicial acts in criminal matters. Following a request from the then Minister of Justice, on 17 September 2010, the College of Attorneys General issued Circular COL18/2010 on a rapid response to urban crime, in which, in addition to the procedure for the summons by minutes, the legally authorized alternative procedure for direct summons is also explained by the application of Article 645 cited. In this circular, it is recommended that an expedited procedure be considered for certain offences referred to in the circular. The circular of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, to which you refer, is a local implementation of this circular COL18/2010 and therefore concerns the application of article 645 of the Code of Criminal Investigation. Although the Brussels initiative is quite recent, the system of direct summons of the offender caught in flagrante delicto is not new. For example, this system has been used for six years in the current districts of East Flanders and Antwerp. It has proven, on numerous occasions, its usefulness and added value. In practice, it appears that the advantages of the application of Article 645 in relation to the application of Article 216c are not negligible. The Attorney General of Ghent points out, in his mercurial of this year, in particular the following: "The savings of time and capacity, both for the police services and for the prosecution, the savings of time, of costs, avoiding a summons to appear by a exploit of judicial officer and the significant reduction of the security risk by avoiding the transfer of the suspect." In the context of this direct citation, the rights of the accused remain fully safeguarded. Thus, the President will be notified if the accused has not made the choice of a lawyer. The immediate search and identification of the victims also allows them to promptly inform them of the date and time of the session at which the case will be dealt with. The immediate meaning of the summons to the accused himself also leads in practice to a significant decrease in the number of default judgments, as appears in an interview with Judge Ingrid Mallems and Prosecutor Johan Sabbe, recently published in Just News, the citizen is very satisfied with this way of proceeding. Finally, it should be stressed that the Brussels initiative is fully in line with the guidelines of the College of Public Prosecutors and that it is not the Brussels police but the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office which determines when and for which offence this direct summons procedure is applied. In addition, the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office will only apply the procedure if all the conditions are met and the quality control of the minutes is positive. For the rest, I would like to make it clear that unfortunately it is not possible for me to communicate to you the circular of the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels, but I believe I have sufficiently informed you of its content.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u21	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. I agree with you on all the points you make, in particular on the question of the direct quotation that I did not question. My goal was to discuss with you the possible opportunity given to the police themselves to define the themes during the pilot phase. The end of your answer therefore tells me that it is the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office that defines these topics and not the police at all. That was not the information I had at my disposal. I take note of that. I will turn to who is entitled to this information and will not fail to return to you, if necessary, if it should appear that the responsibilities are not clearly separated.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Bonte has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u23	Minister, I too wish you congratulations and good luck with your new mandate. Within the framework of the Strategic Action Plan Limburg in the Quadrate, which was proposed after the closure of Ford Genk, there was always a commitment from the previous government to the construction of a new prison in Limburg, in particular in Leopoldsburg. The construction of this is also mentioned in the SALK report. However, I do not see anything in the new coalition agreement. However, the construction of the prison could generate up to 300 new jobs in the region. Mr. Secretary, is the new government sticking to the decision to build a new prison in Leopoldsburg? If so, what progress has been made on the dossier? What else has to be done? What time limit are we talking about? If no, why is the plan being implemented? So what are the alternatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u24	Mrs Kitir, the previous government has not made a final decision on the possible construction of a new prison in Leopoldsburg. However, it has allowed further analysis and preparation of the file of the Master Plan 3, which includes such a prison. It is the intention of the new government to continue with this, as laid down in the coalition agreement. A first necessary step has already been taken, namely the administrative transfer of ownership from the Ministry of Defence to the Buildings Regie. For the rest, I cannot at present give any further details on the specific file of the prison in Leopoldsburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that the previous government has not taken a final decision on this matter, that the new government will continue to review the plans that have been made and that there are already plans to acquire ownership of the land. Does that mean that she does choose the prison in Leopoldsburg or how should I interpret your answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u26	It is up to you to interpret my answer, Mrs Kitir.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u27	Mr. Secretary, I want to understand. Is that prison gonna be there or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u28	I think I have said that this has not yet been definitively decided, but that this is in line with the implementation of Master Plan 3 and that the Buildings Control has already acquired the ground for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u29	When will there be more clarity on this, Minister? After all, it is an important dossier. We are two years after the announcement of the closure. A lot of preparatory work has been done. Building a prison is part of the larger plan to create new jobs. Can you tell me when you will finally know whether or not that prison is going to happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u30	You ask me more questions than I have answers, Mrs Kitir. I know that a lot of people, like you, are strongly insisting on the rapid implementation of the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u31	It is not just about rapid implementation, Minister, but also about clarity. If one can't even get the prison going, it's sad.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u32	Mr President, in my turn I would like to welcome the Minister to this committee and I hope for very good cooperation across the borders of all parties. Minister, WikiLeaks came out a few weeks ago with a list of countries that brought in FinFisher's controversial espionage software. Our country was also on that list, between countries such as Pakistan, Bahrain, Nigeria and Vietnam, which is striking. According to this information, Belgium would have purchased 13 licences in recent years. According to WikiLeaks, the Belgian State would have already spent more than 1 million euros on purchasing that software. Minister, I have some very specific questions. Can you confirm that Belgium is a customer at FinFisher? Who bought that controversial software? Which departments or administrations are we talking about? Since when is it used and how often? For what purposes is that spyware used? What was the cost of the purchase? Did that purchase take place through a market survey? If not, what criteria were used to choose that company?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u33	Mr Van Hecke, the Ministry of Justice, in particular the Directorate-General for Judicial Order, is responsible for the organisation of Section 56 Ordinary Legal Powers, Programme 3 Auditing, accessing and recording private communications and telecommunications, at the basic location 12.04 all kinds of operational expenditure on information technology. Would you like me to read that again?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u34	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u35	On the basis of the information submitted, two invoices were paid by the FPS Justice this year to the company mentioned by you, twice the same amount of 18 181,81 euros, respectively on 26 August 2014 and on 21 October 2014. These services are paid at the request of a special unit in the Federal Police, which is responsible for the tactical interception of communications, better known as "Pebble Tap'. It is that unity that determines the need and also is responsible for entering into and following up the performance. The use of the technique is always carried out under the orders of a investigating judge. The further role of Justice is limited to the settlement of costs. For more details, the usual reserve is insisting on the choice and use of such techniques. The Minister of the Interior should therefore be referred to.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u36	Minister, I knew it would not be so obvious to find out exactly where I could go with my questions. I had to guess which minister I could find the right information from. I've obtained some of the information through you. I will, of course, also ask your fellow Members about the aspects that fall within their competence. Nor was it clear to me whether the security of the State or the military security services are using these things. Nor would this be found in the judicial or police sphere. It's pretty obvious now. I just want to say that there are some critical reservations about this company, the methods and techniques they use, and the countries with which they conclude contracts. I will give you further information on this matter and I will ask you questions about it later. It seems important to me that such budgets should also be examined in this respect. I had also asked a question about a possible market survey when choosing this company. I didn't get a straight answer to that. So I suppose I'll have to ask your colleague that question? You're nodding in agreement. I'll do this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u37	Tell him it's about 12.04.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u38	Minister, a few weeks ago figures were published on the use of the friendly settlement and the extended friendly settlement. The distinction between the two is not always so strict. Last year, 7 549 criminal cases were reported to have been closed with an amicable settlement. This is 51% more than in 2011, when the law was extended to the extended friendly settlement. It's actually a new record. There are also differences in their use in the country. In 2013 in Flanders there were more than 4 900 cases compared with 1 600 in Brussels and 977 in Wallonia. Minister, for a long time, your predecessor, Mr Delors, had also announced that there would be a thorough evaluation of the extended friendly settlement. More than a year ago it was announced that this would happen by June 2014. I would have liked to know whether this evaluation, which has been announced for so long, has been carried out. If so, what are the main findings and conclusions of that evaluation? Can this evaluation also be made public and delivered to Members of Parliament? If not, when is this evaluation expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u39	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, I can confirm that the application of the extended friendly settlement has now been thoroughly evaluated. The evaluation was carried out between February and June 2014 by the Criminal Policy Office on behalf of the chairman of the criminal justice expertise network of the College of Attorney General, the former Attorney General of Antwerp, Mr Liégeois. The result is a detailed report on the application of the circular COL No. 6/2012. It should be noted that it is mainly a process evaluation which examines how the VVSBG is applied in practice, which are good practice and which problems are encountered. The evaluation is based on a survey by means of round tables of about sixty parquet magistrates, the reference magistrates for the friendly settlement identified within each parquet and labour audit centre as well as the federal parquet. In addition, the evaluation provides a quantitative picture of the application since the entry into force of the laws of 14 April and 11 July 2011 based on the recorded data. The main findings and conclusions of the evaluation are as follows: Firstly, in terms of figures, the application of the extended friendly settlement is rather limited. There are 337 proposals out of a total of 213 cases. However, there is an important turnover in relation to the limited application. The report speaks of about EUR 56 million. Set at EUR 9.5 million of the ordinary friendly solutions, the importance of this amount is shown. In addition, the amount of the extended amicable settlement is in addition to compensation to any victim or any tax or social debt to be settled in advance and may request the prosecution to waive or surrender goods or property benefits. For example, the data from the Antwerp resort show that an amount of 11.5 million euro in settlement also paid an additional total sum of nearly 194 million euros of evaded taxes to the tax administration and 10 million euros of waived capital gains. As regards the stage of the procedure at which the extended amicable settlement is concluded, it can be established that the extended application occurs mainly during the judicial investigation, at the time of the subpoena and when the investigating court refers to the correctional court, and only very limited during the substantive proceedings. A second observation is that many magistrates point to the added value of the procedural extension, inter alia in order to avoid lengthy procedures, to relieve the burden on the courts and to have a complete file available. In doing so, the magistrates often show restraint and caution in the application. For example, any negotiations are often conducted by two prosecutors, with assistance from the reference magistrate and systematically requested from the Attorney General or the Federal Prosecutor for an extended friendly settlement in cases of economic, financial and tax infringements. The internal review within the Public Prosecutor's Office, as provided for in the joint letter from the Minister of Justice and the College of Attorneys General, was therefore carefully implemented and is considered a first stage in the development of a public prosecutor's policy on the extended friendly settlement. I come to the third and final observation. The evaluation does not show that a thorough amendment of the legal procedure is still considered desirable. A number of practical and punctual adjustments to both the Directive and Article 216a of the Code of Criminal Procedure may be useful in clarifying a number of uncertainties. To this end, the evaluation also sets out recommendations on the harmonization of policies, the formation of magistrates, the coordination with tax and social administrations and, finally, a more sophisticated registration of the application. These elements will be further examined within the criminal justice expertise network of the College of Attorneys General. As already mentioned, the Evaluation Report was delivered by the Criminal Policy Service to the College of Attorneys General and can be requested from the Secretariat of the College of Attorneys General, which is responsible for the further dissemination.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for that information, because today we are getting the first of the evaluation reports. To begin with, I will certainly request the report from the secretariat, but it seems easy to publish such a study on a website of Justice so that it can be consulted by anyone interested in this matter. Some active publicity would therefore be appropriate here. I'll read the report with a lot of attention. Your conclusion is that it does not require a thorough change. You know our criticism of it. For example, I will look in the report to see if many of these cases are possible to conclude an extended friendly settlement after a ruling, when an appeal has already been made. How many cases has that occurred? Probably not in a lot of cases. That is still a problem for us. Quidt during a judicial investigation where the investigating judge does not give permission but does give information? There are still fundamental problems for us. Although this is a limited number of things, as you yourself say, we cannot ignore the fact that it is a matter of enormous turnover. It's about big tax cases where it's always important to pay attention to the fact that there's no class justice. That is also a fundamental point. Thank you for the information. We will certainly look into the report and come back to this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u41	Mr Van Hecke, I would like to say the following, not because you would not know it, but for the report. The tax and social debt associated with the criminal offence must always be paid in full. So it's not in the 56.5 million euros. There is a huge misunderstanding in public opinion about this. You know that, but I think it is important that it be said again.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u42	That is indeed very important. The previous minister also often gave figures on the proceeds, but then the amounts collected by the tax administration were included. That distinction must indeed be made, and you have done so. I know that's what people have to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u43	Mr President, Minister, on 1 June 2014, the Law of 8 May 2014 amending the Civil Code on the method of handing over names to the child and to the adopted person entered into force. The new scheme applies to all children born Belgian. A transitional measure was also introduced for parents with underage children. Until one year after the introduction of the law, they may change the surname of their child according to the principles of the new law, contained in Article 12. This should be done by a joint declaration from both parents to the civil status official. There is a specific problem here. Belgians abroad can go to the Belgian consulates and embassies for many documents, such as birth, descent, marriage and so on, but apparently they can't go there for the application of this law, so for the change of the family name as provided for in the law of 8 May 2014, and that seems a little strange to me. Can you confirm that the embassies and consulates are not authorised to request a change to the family name on the basis of this law? If so, under what legal provision can the embassies and consulates refuse such an application? You may refer to the article referring to the official of the civil status of the place of residence, but for many other acts this may be the case. Is there a loophole in the law and should it not be amended? If so, how can this problem be solved? What happens to the transitional period, namely one year? Will it be extended, if necessary, depending on when the problem is resolved?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u44	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, the law of 8 May 2014 on the transfer of names in Article 12 provides for the possibility of making a statement in favour of the minor children born before 1 June 2014 in order to give them a different name in accordance with the provisions of the new law. The certificate must be made to the civil servant of the municipality where the child is registered in the population register. Belgians who are resident abroad cannot do so in Belgium, but should be able to do so at the Belgian consular office of the country in which they live. However, the powers of the consular posts in matters of civil status are limited in Article 7 of the consular code. Those powers shall be limited to acts of birth, instruments of death, instruments of declaration of a lifeless child, instruments of recognition, the joint declaration provided for in Article 316a of the Civil Code and the instruments relating to the names of recognised children referred to in Article 335 of the Civil Code. The consular posts are therefore not competent to receive the certificate referred to in Article 12 of the Law of 8 May 2014. A bill has already been tabled to resolve this problem and I will support this bill with number 54K0538. In particular, this legislative proposal provides for the addition of Article 12 (3) in order to allow the declaration to be made to the head of the consular post for children registered in the consular population registers. The transitional period of one year shall not be extended. This means that the person concerned will have to make the declaration before 1 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. I am very pleased with it, because I do not think it was the intention of the legislator, when the law came into being, that it would be impossible for Belgians living abroad to take such steps at the consulate or at the embassy. This is in the logic of what one could do. I am pleased that the legislation will be amended. You announce that nothing will happen about the deadline. I understand that, but I hope that the bill will be adopted soon. If it were to be six months before it was approved and the necessary adjustments were made, the deadline would be very short for Belgians residing abroad. I also put the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but he referred to Article 12, and that was the end of the matter. I can see you've made further progress in the reflection. I am pleased that there is a proposal and we will fully support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u46	Question No 195 by Mrs Temmerman and No 295 by Mrs De Wit have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u47	Minister, as I said in plenary, I look forward to working with you as a new Minister of Justice. With our questioning we continue on the same momentum as before. The situation in prisons is indeed a subject that we have been working on a great deal in the past legislature, and you have undoubtedly noticed that the problems have not stopped at the beginning of your new task. During the previous legislature, some new prisons opened their doors, including the prisons in Beveren and Leuze. Each new prison had to be able to accommodate a 300 prisoners. During the previous legislature, there was always a statement that the intention was to tackle the overpopulation in our prisons. Beveren prison has been operational since spring 2014. The prison of Leuze has also been opened since May 2014. However, it appears that both prisons are still not running at full capacity. The figures are even quite disturbing. In the prison of Leuze there are only about seventy prisoners and in Beveren about two hundred prisoners. On the other hand, the total capacity is 312 places each, which means, Minister, that about 350 cells would be unused. However, the overpopulation in our Belgian prisons is still what it is today. The cause appears to be a shortage of penitentiary staff in both prisons, which means that no additional prisoners can be taken care of. The deficit would result from a reduction in the number of recruitments in all services imposed by the federal government. That's weird. First of all, the government knew she'd open up new prisons. A lot of staff have been transferred. The government knew it would need the staff involved. Minister, you cannot help it, but your predecessor never mentioned a shortage of prison staff in her answers to all the questions already raised in the Committee on Justice about the prisons in question. The number of cells was screened. It has never been stated that a number of cells could only be used according to the number of penitentiary staff present. You understand that this raises a number of questions. The problem of overpopulation must be tackled. Can you confirm, Minister, that the prisons in question are indeed not being used to the full? How many inmates are in those prisons? How many penitentiary officers do the two prisons count? How many seats haven't been filled in yet? What is the relationship with the optimal framework in both prisons? Is it true, Minister, that there are too few staff, because a reduction in the number of recruitments has been imposed in all public services? Does such a measure constitute savings or do they have other reasons? Will you take steps to make full use of the prisons in question? Minister, have other prisons been affected by the shortage of prison staff? What is the most important question here? What is the impact of this deficit on the maximum number of prisoners that can stay in prisons compared to the total capacity of prisons? Finally, Minister, the lease in Tilburg will be terminated. The prisoners come back here, but the penitentiary officials are Dutch, who will not come. The problem may become even more serious as a result. There are a lot of questions, Minister. I know you had a meeting with the unions yesterday. Maybe you've been talking about this, too? Maybe the meeting got us something, too? I'm glad to hear that. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u48	Mr President, Minister, according to my information and as my colleague has mentioned, the new prison in Leuze-en-Hainaut currently has 143 guards for 67 prisoners. To compensate for the lack of experienced guards, it was anticipated that several guards would have to be seconded from Mons and Saint-Gilles prisons. However, according to the press, it appears that the transfer of these guards to Leuze was blocked, due to the freeze on hirings in the public service decided on 11 September by then Budget Minister Olivier Chastel. This decision also impacts the nursing and psychosocial cadres of the Leuz prison, who have only five out of the eighteen initially planned. This lack of staff is a matter of concern to prison workers, who are wondering how they can cope with the rate of incarceration, which provides for an influx of seven prisoners a week, but which also creates conflicts within the prison, in particular due to the lack of pre-trial release or planned activities for prisoners. I therefore believe that it is necessary to reinvigorate the hiring of prison officers without delay. Minister, do you confirm the allegations that the transfer of agents to Leuze prison was blocked? If so, can you tell us when the freeze on hiring in the sector will end, and therefore the freeze will be lifted? What short-term measures will be taken to put an end to this situation, which affects both officers and detainees?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u49	Mrs De Wit, Mr Senesael, I will start with the figures. The Marche-en-Famenne prison is fully operational. The capacity is structurally filled. Beveren's prison today has 214 inmates. The prison of Leuze-en-Hainaut counted 90 prisoners on 3 November 2014. Both establishments are being filled in progressively. For the staff, the situation is currently changing from day to day, because the administration is engaged in a major cycle of change, which is taking place this week. At the end of the cycle, Beveren's prison will have 214 full-time equivalents within the technical framework and surveillance framework. The prison of Leuze-en-Hainaut will have 159.5 full-time equivalents. The staff plan for both establishments provides for 220 full-time equivalents. On the basis of these figures, both prisons can now be filled further. The fact that both devices are not yet running at full capacity is not abnormal. Opening a prison always takes time and happens progressively. A number of factors, including staff present, are taken into account. In Beveren we have at some point reduced the influx of prisoners, at the request of the staff, who felt inadequate. So the administration takes care of everything. What is true is that the administration treats problems cautiously and that recruitment is blocked for the time being. This is not only true for Beveren and Leuze-en-Hainaut. This is a national phenomenon. The reason for this is to be found in previous social agreements and savings measures. As is well known, the Verviers prison was closed at the end of 2013 and the federal youth centres are transferred to the Communities. The budgets that went hand in hand with them are obviously being abolished. However, in consultation with the trade unions, measures have been taken to maintain prison staff and officers as far as possible. For example, Verviers' staff was inserted in Lantin, Huy and Andenne. The consequence is that, for the time being, there are too many staff in the PPE Directorate-General. However, this abundance is felt only in some prisons. For example, the distance between Lantin and Leuze-en-Hainaut is 130 kilometres. There is therefore no question of transferring Verviers' staff to Leuze-en-Hainaut. The cost-saving measures imposed by the previous government have therefore increased the shortage of staff in some prisons. However, there is an overabundance of personnel in others. As a result of these blocking and cost-saving measures, it is obviously impossible to recruit additional staff, for example for Beveren or Leuze-en-Hainaut. Does that mean that prisons will not be filled more? No. Does that mean that, in the long run, these prisons will not function at full capacity? No. The padding continues. It shall take account of the staff employed and their place of residence; in any event, it shall result in an occupation of 100 %. For the rest, I would like to refer to the coalition agreement, including the global vision and measures against the overpopulation. I will work it out in my policy statement on 19 November.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. For me, it is particularly important that there will be sufficient staff. At present there are too many staff in some places and in others perhaps too few. The most important thing for us is that the filling of the cells continues. Minister, have I understood correctly that staffing is being filled progressively and that, in Beveren on 3 November 2014, there are 214 staff, while the optimal number is 220? This means that the mutation cycle is almost complete in Beveren and that the frame has been filled with 6 FTEs? The most important thing for us is that when that number of staff is there, all cells can be filled. That is the main concern for our group. I take note of your statement that this will indeed happen. We will, of course, follow up on the problem. I find it odd that these cells are not being filled yet, although the target number of staff is about reached in Beveren. I find it a strange phenomenon that many cells are still free there. I hope that will change soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u51	You misunderstood me for very understandable reasons. There are 214 prisoners in Beveren at the moment, and there are 90 in Leuze-en-Hainaut. At the end of the mutation cycle, not now, there will be 214 full-time equivalents in Beveren. So they're penitentiary officers, not convicts. The staff framework shall be 220. There will therefore be 159 penitentiary officers in Leuze, where the framework also amounts to 220. At the moment, they are not there yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u52	I understand that in Beveren now that every inmate has his own staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u53	No, apparently we don't understand each other yet. What I cannot give you is the number of penitentiary staff present at this very moment in Beveren and Leuze. I can only tell you that the number of prisoners in Beveren now happens to be the same as the number of VTEs at the end of the mutation cycle. That is a coincidence, and it seems that we misunderstand each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u54	I got it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u55	I hope it is not a description of the person who prepared the answer, but I suspect not, because in the case of the Justice Department, people can handle numbers very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u56	I understand, Minister. We will certainly follow this up and we hope that the cells that are there will be filled. That is what it is all about, namely that the places are being used.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u57	Mr. Chair, Minister, thank you for your answers and clarifications on the number of inmates as of November 3rd and the framework that should be completed. However, I mentioned in my question a possible transfer of the guards to Leuze. I understand that the situation of Verviers is quite problematic from a geographical point of view given the significant distance. We had also mentioned the prisons of Mons and Saint-Gilles; I did not hear you about that. In addition, I draw your particular attention to the nursing and psychosocial environment that may have a significant impact on authorized or unauthorized visits to inmates. In my view, particular attention should be given to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u58	Mr Minister, the new prisons of Beveren and Leuze-en-Hainaut are at stake. They're equipped with Prison Cloud, a great-looking computer system. It has always been said that this would be highly secure, a kind of intranet where the prisoners could go on a limited number of websites for job search, e-learning and even ordering a movie from the cell. What shouldn't be possible is contacting the outside world. That's what I was supposed to do. Now, however, it appears that the system was not completely waterproof. They had found a hole in the net, so some resourceful people in Beveren had managed to send an e-mail to a journalist, for example. They stated that they had found a back door and that they could continue certain activities from prison. That turned out to be possible through a job website. One then had somewhere to share an option and could write comments and a message. Luckily, we couldn't receive Mails yet. When this became known, a number of websites were eventually disconnected from the cloud. The DG EPI then launched an investigation to see how the loopholes could be closed. For the time being, the internet part of the Prison Cloud would be temporarily discontinued. However, recently the Prison Cloud would be operational again in Beveren's prison. Mr Minister, could you perhaps explain in detail, I am not an IT specialist, how such a thing could have happened? Something called a super secure system turned out to contain a super simple back door. What action has been taken in concrete terms after it was announced that the system was being abused? I know the system in Beveren was shut down but was the cloud also shut down in Leuze-en-Hainaut? Do you have any idea how many inmates have found that back gate and what the consequences of that were? Do people know who's been in touch with? Is that gonna be checked and checked? Are sanctions also being applied? Did these problems also arise in Leuze-en-Hainaut or was that just the case in Beveren? What was the outcome of DG EPI's investigation? What were their conclusions? If there are no conclusions yet, when can we expect them? Is the system now operational or not? Have any modifications been made? Here it was about the new prisons, but will Prison Cloud, hopefully, the super-secure version of "Prison Cloud" be installed in the other prisons as well? If so, what is the timing? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u59	Mrs De Wit, during the course of September 2014 it became clear that the site of the VDAB involuntarily allowed the sending of messages from Beveren's prison. As soon as this problem was noted, access to the site, as well as all other sites, was temporarily blocked pending a structural solution that is not currently available. The blocking will therefore continue, although the intention is to resolve this problem as soon as possible. After all, access to the VDAB site is very important in order to prepare for social reintegration. Many prisoners in Beveren made use of the site. It's not possible to find out who took advantage of it. It is true, however, that safety has not been compromised at any time. The inmates could only send messages. Something that is also possible by correspondence, for example. The problem only arises in Beveren. In Leuze-en-Hainaut there is no VDAB working. The intention is to extend Prison Cloud to other prisons, depending on technical possibilities and budgetary resources. The prison of Marche-en-Famenne should be the next establishment where the system becomes available.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. It is indeed important that that site can be operationalized again. On the other hand, I also understand that the site remains blocked as long as there is a risk of communication via the site in an unauthorized manner. It is obvious that the VDAB is not consulted in Leuze-en-Hainaut, but I assume that some site can also be consulted there to look for work. Maybe it's interesting to see if there's such a back door? I note that the Prison Cloud will be installed in other prisons. I hope that this is and will continue to be a watertight system so that it can be a useful tool for prisoners on the one hand, but on the other hand it must be prevented from communicating with the outside world in an unauthorized manner. You say that there is no security risk because you can now communicate by correspondence. However, it is very easy and very fast to communicate via the Internet and e-mails, and I do not think this is the intention. I'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u61	Debates of the European Parliament 247 by Mrs Özen, 270, 274, 276, 281 by Mrs Jadin, 286 and 287 by Mr Maingain and 288 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u62	Mr President, Minister, we are going to continue our conversation. It is quite funny, Minister, that I have received lessons from you and that I have studied together with the colleague next to you. With regard to the ACOD strike on the prison staff, we have been informed that there is an intention to withdraw from the prison system next Friday. A number of consultations have already taken place with you, but no concrete results have yet been achieved that are sufficient for those involved. I understand that there are many items on the agenda. These include leave prior to retirement, overcrowding, infrastructure, savings on the frameworks, etc. Let it be clear, I have no doubt that prison staff do not have an easy task and do not always work in easy conditions. There is also understanding for you, Minister, in the sense that it has been said that, given the poor administration over the past four years under the responsibility of your predecessor, it will not be easy to get the FPS Justice on track quickly. I do believe that you have a difficult task ahead of you. However, the ACOD forgot that the colour of their trade union also took part in the government at that time, but this aside. The strike would continue from 6:00 a.m. Friday morning to 6:00 a.m. Saturday morning. However, there was a discussion with you yesterday afternoon. What is the outcome of this consultation with the trade unions, at least if we are allowed to know? Have progress been made, as opposed to the previous rounds of consultations? Can you prevent a strike or will this Friday take place anyway? The next point is very important. You will have noticed that there is a protocol agreement 351. We have been waiting years for it to be evaluated and for concrete results to be achieved, but that is what we are waiting for. Is the strike requested in accordance with the protocol agreement? If the strike continues, the police will again be called upon. We know, however, that they are getting tired of being forced into prisons, where they are less at home than the penitentiary staff themselves. Also the streets will be a little less safe. Will the police indeed have to be requisitioned? You may know that in the past there has been a lot of discussion between the Ministers of the Interior and Justice about whether or not the police should be involved. That is also an important item, unless you can tell me now that the consultation has been so good that there will be no strike.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u63	Mrs De Wit, the answers to your four questions are roughly as follows. The talks with the trade unions are very constructive. I had a third meeting yesterday with the representatives of the penitentiary institutions and the judicial authorities. A fourth meeting was held on 14 November. Social dialogue is therefore intense at the moment. What was the outcome of the consultations so far? We have succeeded in unblocking the issue of pay increases and the promotions of the penitentiary officials on 1 November. These wage increases and promotions will be granted retroactively as from 1 November, if necessary, with the agreement of the Minister for the Budget. Other points that have been discussed at the moment include the question of leave for retirement. You know that in the penitentiary institutions there is the possibility of applying for a kind of bridge pension, which is that five years before the retirement age one can start the leave period. A transitional regime has been provided for this by the previous Justice Minister, who, I think, gradually increases the age of taking penitentiary leave to 57 years as of 1 January 2016. The government agreement provides that this so-called VVP system will be aligned and harmonised with the unemployment scheme with single payment in the private sector. It is therefore important to discuss this issue with the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Public Administration and, of course, the Minister for the Budget, not to speak about the Minister for Pensions, who are all parties to the Alignment of this VVP regime, which is currently a major concern of the trade unions. It also discussed fixed-term contracts, which, as a result of the recruitment stop, will in future be renewable by the administration only after a decision of the entire Management Committee of the FPS Justice and this for exceptional cases. This applies both to the judicial system and to the penitentiary institutions. Apart from psychosocial services and administrative staff, who are understaffed in a number of places, these are the main points that have been raised. There are, of course, many points that still need to be addressed. I am not talking about the judicial order, because that was not your question, but of course there are important points there too, and I would regret it if we were to say that the consultation is limited to that, it is much wider. However, these are the only points which I have been able to address so far during the three meetings and on which we have had a wide-ranging exchange of views. It is true that the socialist union has denounced the strike by applying the protocol agreement 351, which provides that the strike must be denounced within seven days and that it can take place within 72 hours. It is true that the socialist union finally decided, after this strike was announced the day before yesterday, to strike on Friday. The other two trade unions offer their members the opportunity to join this strike. Finally, before we get to the question about the police, I would like to point out that, in relation to the strike, it is an important point whether the leave for the days on which it is stopped can be withdrawn. This concerns both structural leave, which is the result of the 36- and 38-hour week, and short leave. It was agreed with the syndicates that this custom, which has been in existence for some time, will be renegotiated, in particular with regard to the precise interpretation of the term'small', because, of course, the definition is important in its application and the exceptions to that definition should also be possible in terms of reasonableness. Finally, as far as your question about the police is concerned, I do not know the costs. The Home Secretary will take care of it. So you have to ask him that question. You know that the government agreement provides for the gradual implementation of a system of guaranteed service in our prisons during strike days, without, of course, compromising the right to strike. In this context, I have announced to the trade unions that there will be social dialogue in order to introduce the guaranteed service in a reasonable period of time, even in circumstances such as this one, in order to enable the situation of detainees to meet higher standards of salubrity and human rights during a period of strike.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The latter is very important, because if there is a strike, then life within the prison walls falls completely away for those people. That is why I have always been in favour of doing something about it, for example through guaranteed services. I am pleased that this will be done in the near future. Do I understand correctly that the strike will take place regardless of the constructive consultation that has taken place and the new date that has been planned? I very much regret that. I am sorry that this has been done, although there has already been consultation and certain things have been obtained. I have every respect for the sometimes difficult situation in which the staff have to work, but I dare to say this out loud, Minister, that one Friday's strike is often not a coincidence. That will happen more often. I've seen strike planes break up in Antwerp once, because it started raining. The barbecue was so put out and people went back to work. That is what is happening, and that is an erosion of the right to strike. That doesn't make anyone any better either. We also know that in the event of strikes, syndical engagements and all that has to do with them, there are a lot of willing people who suffer from this every time. They will then have to come back on leave or they will not be able to take their overtime. I do not think that is so collegial, with full understanding of the rights which they believe they should safeguard and their right to do so. If there is a constructive consultation and a new date is planned, then I do not think it is serious that people continue to apply any pressure. I am very sorry that they are not being taken into account. I am very sorry about that, but I note that you will continue with the consultation. It is important that a solution is offered and found.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u65	Question No 270 by Mrs Jadin is not postponed but is transformed into a written question. Questions No 190 by Mr Degroote and No 246 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u66	Mr Minister, in February 2014, the Chamber adopted the legislative proposal that provides for the creation of a national register of legal experts and translators. This law requires a number of implementing acts. Since the operationalisation of the law is not so simple, a period of two years was set for its entry into force, with corresponding transitional measures. The aim was to make it possible to publish quickly, but to leave time for implementing decisions. However, it is also noted by the sector that the law has not yet been published in the Belgian Official Journal. In the sector there is even evidence that there is no willingness to publish. I hope, however, that you will contradict that. What is the reason why the law has still not been published? Will you quickly proceed with its publication? It may seem like a detail in the whole of the sector's justified questions about the correct payment and reimbursement, which you have already addressed in the media, but in this context, the statute is of course also an important element.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u67	Mr President, Mrs Becq, in February 2014, the House adopted the legislative proposal to establish a national register of legal experts and interpreters. At the request of the services of the FPS Justice, we have provided that that law would have an effect on a date to be determined by the King, without exceeding the period of two years after publication. That two-year period was considered necessary in order to develop the necessary informatics tools. So far the law has not been published in the Belgian Official Journal. The previous Minister of Justice has postponed its publication for reasons unknown to me. That's what you asked me to do. The two-year period is considered necessary not only for computer tools but also for drawing up the royal decisions for which consultation with the actors in the field should be carried out. The Management Committee of the FPS decided that the publication could be done after an in-depth analysis of the ICT component. The first analyses of ICT requirements on the register have been launched. In the coming months, a more detailed proposal of what is necessary and possible will be drawn up. The finalised proposal will then be submitted for validation back to the Management Committee, extended to the representatives of the Magistrate, which will examine the project together with other project proposals under the 2015 budget. On that basis, a definitive calendar will be determined, and in that light, I also have a meeting with the court interpreters on 17 November, if I tell you the exact date.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u68	Minister, do I now conclude that the publication is not yet foreseen, but that it will first be examined in the administration what ICT needs are and only then will it be published? I have to admit, however, that I regret that very much. We have passed a law in Parliament, also at the request of the cabinet and, as I understood it, the administration, in order to ensure a proper transitional period, so that the necessary ICT developments could be further examined. It is now stated that it must be examined first and that it will then be checked when the law will be published. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u69	I will inform the Executive Committee of the FPS Justice of your grief. I think I will be given the answer that the budget for the necessary investments should be available. To that extent, a question will be put to me by par ricochet. I will try to implement Parliament's wishes within the best possible time limits.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic012x.u70	Debates of the European Parliament No 195, by Mrs Temmerman and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 295 by Mrs De Wit have been postponed. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht 316 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu has been postponed. So there are no more questions. Thank you, Minister, for being here. The next meeting will take place in the afternoon on Wednesday 12 November 2014.
