ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u2	Mr Laurent Devin is requested to take the constitutional oath. Mr. Laurent Devin is called upon to take the constitutional oath. The credentials of Mr Laurent Devin were declared valid on 19 June 2014. He was elected a member of the Chamber of Representatives on the same day. Mr. Laurent Devin's credentials were validated on 19 June 2014 and he was proclaimed a member of the House of Representatives on the same day. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." Je rappelle les termes du serment: "Je jure d'observer la Constitution" "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I would ask Mr Laurent Devin to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mr. Laurent Devin to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u3	Mr Laurent Devin will be part of the French language group. Mr. Laurent Devin will be part of the French linguistic group. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u4	The President (in front of the standing assembly) Colleagues, it was with sadness that we learned of the death, on May 19, 2014, of André Degroeve, honorary member of our assembly. Born in Saint-Josse-ten-Noode on 1 April 1931, André Degroeve was a doctor of law, a graduate in political and diplomatic sciences and a graduate in insurance law from the University of ULB, whose board of directors he chaired from 1980 to 1986. André Degroeve started his career in 1957 with the professional association of insurance companies. In 1962 he switched to the National Investment Company and in 1968 he joined the National Society of Neighborhood Railways. It was at the National Secretariat of Socialist Students that he began his political journey. A former president of the Brussels PS Federation, he was a member of Edmond Leburton's cabinet in 1965. A convinced municipalist, he was a communal councillor in the commune of Forest. He became first alderman in 1971 and mayor in 1977. At the head of his commune, André Degroeve has been able to give his full measure for several concrete achievements in the social field. It will ensure that the fight against poverty is intensified by increasing the possibilities for CPAS intervention and that social housing is further renovated. André Degroeve was a member of the Socialist Party of the Brussels Arrondissement from 1971 to 1981 and from 1985 to 1989 and was a member of the Senate from 1981 to 1985. His main interest was in internal affairs and economic issues, as well as in institutional reform and, more particularly, in the Brussels issue. He had an excellent knowledge of the operation of our assembly and was chairman of the Committee on Home Affairs, and also PS group leader. Our former colleague also served in government. He became Secretary of State for the French Community in 1980 under the Martens II government, Minister of the Brussels Region and President of the Executive of the Brussels Region in the Martens IV government. Beyond economics, he tried to improve the living environment of Brusselsers by opening parks, renovating old neighbourhoods and reviving urban animation. His active contribution to the gestation of the future Brussels Region will also be remembered. In 1989, André Degroe became the last governor of the undivided province of Brabant. He finished his political career as governor of the Brussels-Capital district in April 1998. On the wall of his office was a statement by Rosa Luxembourg, the German Marxist politician, which he kept in mind: "Freedom only for the supporters of the government, only for members of a party........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ André Degroeve, colleagues, was a generous and mild man, who very rarely lost his good temper. But behind his authentic Joviality was a great determination and deeply rooted political views. The House extended to the family of the deceased the condolences of our assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was a man of great quality, a sincere, just and humane man who left us on May 19. Like some other colleagues here, I have known him on the benches of this House. André Degroeve was a brilliant speaker, a skilled negotiator passionate about political matters and socialist values. For twenty years, André Degrave has spared no effort to work for our country and for Brussels. He believed in that region very early in the day. He had real ambitions for Brussels. It would be particularly difficult to give a complete overview of its numerous efforts for the Region. André Degroeve was, as they say, a "Schte Brusselaar". As you said, Mr President, he was Minister of the Region under the so-called Martens IV government. The Brussels he loved and wanted was an open region, open to diversity, open to multiculturalism and fruitful dialogue between linguistic communities. One of his great achievements was also to support the renovation of the neighbourhoods, the creation of public spaces. The harmonious development of the Brussels territory was his priority, just as the fight against discrimination and exclusion was, of the fighting which he carried out fiercely also at the local level in his beautiful commune of Forest. President of the Brussels Federation of the Socialist Party, he was also keen to promote women to positions of responsibility at a time when it was not obvious. When he became the last governor of the province of Brabant in 1989, he continued his efforts to this end. He has always remained faithful to the values of his party. Together with his wife, he opened the doors of the provincial palace to the citizens and set up a museum with works of the rich artistic provincial heritage. A man of great joviality, he was very sensitive to social distress and acted a lot in support of associations. Annually, André Degroeve and his wife organized a big ball in the same palace for the benefit of disadvantaged childhood. Ladies and gentlemen, it is probably no better way to honour our colleague's memory than to continue his fight, because his fight was beautiful and the work to be done remains important. Like André Degroeve, let us continue to fight together around the essential so that everyone can live with dignity, be respected and deploy his talent. On behalf of the government, I extend my deepest condolences to his wife Marie-Josèphe to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u6	The President (in front of the standing assembly) Colleagues, it was with sadness that we learned of the death, on June 3, 2014, of François Dufour, honorary member of our assembly. He sat in the House from 1987 to 2003, where he represented the electoral district of Tournai-Ath-Mouscron for the Socialist Party. Born in Vezon in March 1938, François Dufour studied in Peruwelz and Tournai. He first worked as a railwayman at the age of twenty and served as a guard at the station of Tournai from 1958 to 1961. During the strikes of the 60s he stood up for the poorest in our society, with one of his father, who was a stonemason, inherited inspiration. In his view, the economy had to be at the service of man and not the other way round, because man is not an instrument of those who control economic and financial control. That was actually the guiding principle in the fight for more social justice, which he spent his life pursuing. Communal secretary of Vaulx before the merger of the communes, he made himself the defender of the small people of the carrier basin. He is remembered for his important achievements, particularly in the area of habitat remediation. François Dufour then gradually became involved in politics. After the merger of the communes, he became chief of cabinet of the mayor of Tournai, Raoul Van Spitael, then commissioner and administrator of the local intercommunal. In addition to these professional activities, he was particularly active on the trade union front. For example, he was ACOD trade union secretary for local and regional government staff in Tournai. He was also a member of the board of directors of the Federation of Mutualités Socialites de Tournai-Ath. In 1983, François Dufour became director of the technical services of the city of Tournai. At the beginning of 1987 he succeeded Roger Delcroix as a provincial senator. He was elected as a Member of Parliament in December 1987. He used extraordinary energy and tribal talents to defend the causes which he made his own. The strong verb and the broad gesture, he intervened several times to denounce social exclusion and the need to defend social achievements. For behind his tempered character was a great heart. He was also keen to fight for the economic development of his region, Western Hainaut. At the local level, our former colleague was city council member in Tournai from 1988 to 2006. As a member of the Committee for the Revision of the Constitution, François Dufour endorsed the institutional reforms of 1988 and 1993, which, among other things, paved the way for the direct election of the Land Parliaments. After having officially withdrawn from politics, he continued to work for the weakest in society. François Dufour retained, until his last breath, the ideal of his eighteen years: to be and remain an internationalist socialist who has constantly fought to improve the living conditions of more people. The Chamber sent a telegram of condolences to his wife.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last month we were bereaved by the departure of François Dufour. As you have just said, Mr President, our former colleague was a great political figure in Western Hainaut. His personality was appreciated by all. François Dufour was first and foremost a man of the people. All his life, he has defended the interests of the most fragile. Being himself of modest origin, he had, with the working class, a very strong bond, a carnal bond, an indestructible bond. Moreover, it was through the trade union movement that he began his political life. Then, gradually, he went up the political ladder until he became a senator and then a Member of Parliament and a Walloon MP. In all his duties, as a parliamentarian or as a communal councillor of Vaulx, François Dufour remained the same man. All who have known him describe him as whole, integrity and uncompromising. For him, politics was a fight for social justice and against the exploitation of the weakest. Progressive convictions were at the heart of his life. They explain both his commitments and the so particular, so vigorous way in which he defended his ideas. François Dufour was also a great regionalist. He quickly understood the need to reform Belgium. He therefore enthusiastically supported the major institutional reforms of the 1980s and 1990s. He can therefore be considered one of the spiritual fathers of our federal Belgium. I would like to salute the memory of this generous man, determined and always faithful to his convictions. On behalf of the federal government, I extend our deepest condolences to his family and loved ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u8	The President (in front of the standing assembly) Colleagues, we sadly learned of the death, on June 11, 2014, of Mr. José Canon, honorary member of our assembly. He sat in the House from November 1991 to May 2003, where he represented Thuin District for the Socialist Party. José Canon was born on 23 May 1946 in Buvrinnes. Our former colleague began his career in the army as a medical officer. In 1976 he started working at the Executive Board of the Buildings as an auditor of Public Works. In 1981 he joined the insurance company and opened an insurance consultant's office in Anderlues. A long-time socialist activist, José Canon was elected communal councillor of Anderlues in 1970. This convinced municipalist has always remained very attentive to what was happening at the base of society. In 1987, he replaced the mayor Armand Eloi and kept the town hall until 2000. José Canon was a local stronghold, greatly appreciated by the voters of his municipality, as well as an ardent supporter of the local football club, and remained municipal council member of Anderlues until 2012. In May 1991, José Canon was appointed administrator of the TEC Charleroi. In the 1991 general election, José Canon won second place on the PS list of the House. He transformed his essay directly and, at the age of 45, obtained a seat as a Member of Parliament. He then began a new stage in his political career. It continues to invest fully in communal policy. "I care a lot about the function of mayor," he said. "It's a difficult life, even if participating in national politics is also attractive." In the Chamber of Representatives, he devoted himself to matters close to his heart. He distinguished himself, among other things, by his file knowledge in the Committee for Defence. As a member of parliament, he also continued to defend municipal interests, and did not hesitate to raise the concerns of the municipalities at national level. For example, he repeatedly raised the issue of the financing of the municipalities and the late collapse of the municipal elections. During his political career, José Canon was not too sad to review his views over and over again, in order to meet the aspirations of his fellow citizens as well as possible. One of his concerns was to reconcile the citizen with politics in order to avoid the spread of anti-democratic ideas. José Canon was a man of a kind and generous character who had a demanding conception of politics. The Chamber sent a telegram of condolences to our former colleague's family.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was with great sadness that we learned of the death of Mr José Canon. José was a man deeply anchored in his commune of Anderlues and in his native Hainaut. That's where he led his main fights. This is also where he has always drawn inspiration and strength to carry out his work as a proxy. Before becoming a member of parliament, he worked as a civil servant and in the private sector. He wanted to work for the public interest and had a great sense of responsibility. That's how he ended up in politics. Always a militant in the Socialist Party, he became twenty-six years old communal councillor of Anderlues. He became the mayor from 1987 until 2000. His servants give him a great affection and a great deal of esteem. He is dedicated, effective and determined in the defence of their interests. This popularity earned him the honour of wearing the colours of the PS in the parliamentary elections of November 1991 in second place. He was elected brilliantly and became a member of parliament. José Canon always took it up in this assembly with a lot of fire for the municipalities. He put the financial health of the municipalities first. He was the perfect example of the politician who had an eye for local reality. It is with emotion that we reflect on his strong and generous personality. For being with him often, for working with him, I can assure you that he was a generous and upright man. On behalf of the government, I extend our deepest condolences to his family, friends and all those who supported him.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u10	By letter dated 30 June 2014, the European Parliament's Ecolo Green Group informed me that Mr Kristof Calvo had taken over the presidency of Mr Stefaan Van Hecke's Ecolo Green Group from 12 June 2014. By letter of 30 June 2014, the Chamber's Ecolo-Groen Group informed me that Mr Kristof Calvo took over the chairmanship of Mr Stefaan Van Hecke's Ecolo-Groen Group from 12 June 2014. By letter dated 17 July 2014, the Open Vld Group of the Chamber informed me that Ms Carina Van Cauter was appointed as group chairman as of today. By letter dated 17 July 2014, the Chamber's Open Vld Group informed me of the appointment of Ms Carina Van Cauter as Group President from today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u11	We must proceed with the appointment of the standing committees. I propose that the names of the standing committees of the previous legislature be taken over. We must make the appointment of the standing committees. I propose that you take over the names of the standing committees of the previous legislature. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Pursuant to Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, these appointments of the members of the committees shall be made on the basis of the proportional representation of the political groups; each member of a political group represented on the standing committees shall form at least one committee. Members who are not members of a political group or who are members of a political group, which is not represented on the standing committees, shall sit on at least one of those committees of their choice, but shall not have the right to vote. In accordance with Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, appointments of members of committees shall be made to the proportional representation of political groups and each member of a political group represented in the standing committees shall be a member of at least one committee. Members who are not members of any political group or who are members of a political group not represented in the Standing Committees shall sit on at least one of these committees of their choice, without a deliberative vote. I should like to point out that the committees consist of 17 members and that, taking account of the proportional representation, their composition is as follows: 4 members of the N-VA Group and 5 alternates; 3 members of the PS Group and 4 alternates; 3 members of the MR Group and 4 alternates; 2 members of the CD&V Group and 3 alternates; 2 members of the Open VLD Group and 3 alternates; 1 member of the sp.a. and 2 alternates; 1 member of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and 2 alternates; 1 member of the CdH Group and 2 alternates. I would like to point out that the committees are composed of 17 members and that the proportional distribution assigns: 4 seats for members of the N-VA group plus 5 alternates; 3 seats for members of the PS group plus 4 alternates; 3 seats for members of the MR group plus 4 alternates; 2 seats for CD&V Group members plus 3 alternates; 2 seats for members of the Open VLD group plus 3 alternates; 1 member of the sp.a. group plus 2 alternates; 1 member of the Ecolo-Groen Group plus 2 alternate members; 1 member of the cdH group plus 2 alternate members; The chairmen of the political groups have informed me of the names of their candidates. The group presidents sent me the names of their candidates. Since the number of admissible applications corresponds to the number of places to go, it is not necessary to vote in accordance with Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be allocated, there shall be no vote in accordance with rule 157, 6 of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated for the various committees. The composition of the committees will be published in the Summary Report and in the Integrated Report. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated for the various committees elected. The composition of the Committees will be published in the Summary Record and the Full Record. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u12	The group chairmen also informed me of the names of their candidates for the following special committees: - voor clerkship of Comptabiliteit, - Voor commissary of Naturalisaties, - Committee on Petitions, - Commission for the Persecutions, - special committee on the Rules of Procedure, - control committee on electoral expenditure and the accounting of political parties, - special committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Police and the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence, - Parliamentair Comité belast met de wetsevaluatie, the advisory committee on European affairs, the advisory committee on social emancipation and the advisory committee on scientific and technological questions. The group chairmen also sent me the names of their candidates for the following special committees: - commission of accounting, - Commission des Naturalisations, - Petitions Committee, - Prosecution Committee, - Special Committee on Rules of Procedure, - Commission for the control of election expenses and the accounting of political parties, - special committee responsible for parliamentary support of the Standing Committee on Police Services and the Standing Committee on Intelligence Services, - Parliamentary Committee for Legislative Monitoring, and the opinion committee on European issues, the opinion committee on social emancipation and the opinion committee on scientific and technological issues. Since the number of admissible applications corresponds to the number of places to go, it should not be voted on in accordance with Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be allocated, there shall be no vote in accordance with rule 157, 6 of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated for the various committees and committees. The composition of the committees and committees will be published in the Summary Report and in the Integrated Report. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated for the various committees and committees elected. The composition of the committees and committees will be published in the Summary Record and the Full Record.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u13	For information, I would like to inform you of the names of the following committee chairmen: For your information, I should like to inform you of the names of the following committee chairmen: Commission for Business, Science Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Agriculture Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture Karine Lalieux Commission for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service Siegfried Bracke Commission for External Relations Committee on External Relations Dirk Van der Maelen Committee on Finance and the Budget Committee on Finance and the Budget Eric Van Rompuy Commission responsible for the Problems of Trade and Economic Law Commission responsible for the problems of commercial and economic law Denis Ducarme Commission for the Revision of the Constitution and the Reform of the Institutions Committee on Constitutional Review and Institutional Reform Luk Van Biesen Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises Steven Vandeput Voor commissia of Justitia Committee on Justice Marie-Christine Marghem Defence Committee National Defence Commission Karolien Grosemans Committee on Social Affairs Committee on Social Affairs Jean-Marc Delizée Commission for Health, the Environment and Social Renewal Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society Muriel Gerkens
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u14	Ter Article 145, third paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the President of the Chamber be authorised, during this parliamentary term, to decide, pursuant to Rule 147 of our Rules of Procedure, on requests submitted after the completion of the work of the Committees of Inquiry, to obtain access to, or copy of, the minutes of witnesses' hearings made in committee of inquiry or documents submitted by witnesses. Pursuant to rule 145, paragraph 3, of the Rules of the House, I propose, pursuant to rule 147 of our Rules, that the Speaker of the House be empowered to rule in this Parliament on requests made after the closure of the work of the boards of inquiry to obtain the communication or copy of records of the hearing of witnesses by commissions of inquiry or documents given to them by witnesses. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u15	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 July 2014, I propose that Members be allowed to put written questions to the government in current cases as from Friday 18 July tomorrow. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 July 2014, I propose to allow members to ask written questions to the government in day-to-day business as of Friday, 18 July. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u16	In accordance with Article 7 of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Deontological Commission, the twelve members (six Dutch speakers and six French speakers) of the Committee are appointed by the Chamber of Representatives by a two-thirds majority of the votes, two-thirds of the members being present for a period of five years, which may be renewed once and starting from the date of appointment. In accordance with Article 7 of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Ethics Commission, the twelve members (six French-speaking members and six Dutch-speaking members) who make up this committee are appointed by the House of Representatives – by a two-thirds majority of the votes, two-thirds of the members to be present – for a period of five years, renewable once, taking place on the day of installation. Article 8 of the above-mentioned law states that there must be one magistrate (or professor) each of the six Dutch-speaking members, three former members of the Chamber of Representatives and/or the Senate and two former officials. In addition, a maximum of two thirds of the members of the same sex may be. Article 8 of the above-mentioned Act provides that of the six French-speaking members and the six Dutch-speaking members respectively, each time there is a magistrate (or professor), three former members of the House of Representatives and/or the Senate and two former representatives. In addition, a maximum of two thirds of the members are of the same sex. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 July 2014, a call for candidates will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Candidates shall be delivered by 15 September 2014. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 July 2014, a call for candidates will be published in the Belgian Moniteur. Applications must be submitted by 15 September 2014. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u17	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 24 April 2014, a call to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 21 May 2014 for the mandate of President and for the mandates of member of the Supervisory Body for the police information. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 24 April 2014, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 21 May 2014 for the term of president and for the terms of office of member of the Police Information Review Body. The applications had to be submitted 30 days after publication in the Belgian Official Journal, i.e. by Friday 20 June 2014. Applications were to be submitted 30 days after publication in the Belgian Monitor, at the latest by Friday, 20 June 2014. The Supervisory Body shall be chaired by a magistrate of the courts and courts. It is also composed of a member of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, two members of the local police (1N and 1F), two members of the federal police (1N and 1F) and two experts (1N and 1F). In view of the decision of the plenary session of 24 April 2014, gender parity should be respected for each of these three categories. The Supervisory Body shall be chaired by a judge of the courts and tribunals. It is also composed of a member of the Privacy Commission, two members of the local police (1F and 1N), two members of the federal police (1F and 1N) and two experts (1F and 1N). In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 24 April 2014, gender parity must be respected for each of the last three categories. Since no female application was submitted for the latter three categories and since no Dutch-language application was submitted for the mandate of a member of the local police, in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 July 2014, I propose that a new call be made to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of a member of the local and federal police and experts. Given that for the last three categories no female candidates have been submitted and that no Dutch-speaking candidates have been submitted for the term of office of a member of the local police, I propose – in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 July 2014 – to publish a new call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the terms of office of a member of the local police, of the federal police and of an expert. Are you sure you don't mind? (No) Thus shall be done. No observation? (No) That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u18	By letter of 1 July 2014, the Head of Cabinet of the King sent me the wishes of His Majesty the King for the success of the proceedings of our meeting. By letter dated 1 July 2014, the King's Chief of Staff conveyed to me the wishes of His Majesty the King for the success of the work of our Assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u19	By letter of 25 June 2014, the Flemish Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 25 June 2014, the Flemish Parliament announced that it had set up its meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u20	Mit Schreiben vom 26. June 2014 teilt das Parlament der Deutschsprachigen Gemeinschaft mit, dass es sich in signaler Sitzung vom 26. June 2014 konstituiert hat. By letter dated 26 June 2014, the Parliament of the German-speaking Community informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 26 June 2014, the Parliament of the German-speaking Community announced that it had constituted itself at its meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u21	Pursuant to Rules 3, 1 and 158, 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the CD&V Group proposes that Mr Eric Van Rompuy be replaced by Mrs Veerle Heerlen as Bureau Member. In accordance with Rules 3, 1, and 158, 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the CD&V group proposed that Mr Eric Van Rompuy, a member of the Bureau, be replaced by Ms Veerle Heerlen. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u22	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents this afternoon, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Nathalie Muylle cs) on improving the diagnosis and care of people with chronic fatigue syndrome, No. 53/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Sonja Becq cs) on the preparation of a strategic plan to combat and treat obesity, No. 55/1; - the bill (Mrs Nathalie Muylle cs) amending the law on hospitals and other care facilities, coordinated on 10 July 2008, as regards the Supplements of Honorary Wage, No. 58/1; - the bill (Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mrs Nathalie Muylle) prohibiting the charging of supplements for hospitalization of a person for whom permanent assistance from a family member or third person is necessary for medical or psychosocial reasons, No. 62/1; - the bill (Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Ms Nathalie Muylle) amending the law on hospitals and other care facilities, coordinated on 10 July 2008 with the aim of expressing gender equality in the terminology used, No. 63/1; - the bill (Mrs Nathalie Muylle cs) regulating the re-use of medical devices intended for single use, No. 70/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Daniel Bacquelaine and Mr Damien Thiéry) amending the Law of 1 July 1969 establishing the right of the persons with disabilities of war to medical care at the expense of the State, No. 80/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u23	- the motion for a resolution (Mrs Nahima Lanjri cs) on the need for a plan of action in the case of asbestos fires, No. 54/1; - the bill (Mrs Leen Dierick and Mrs Veerle Heeren) amending the Act of 11 April 1994 on public access to public administration, No. 61/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Denis Ducarme and Mr Daniel Bacquelaine and Mrs Kattrin Jadin) amending the Act of 23 March 1989 concerning the election of the European Parliament in order to give the Belgians residing outside the European Union the right to vote in European elections, No. 77/1; - the draft law (Mr Daniel Bacquelaine and Mr Denis Ducarme) amending the Rules of Procedure to prohibit the members of the electoral offices from carrying outward signs of belief or belief, No. 81/1; - the motion for a resolution (Doc. 84/1; - the bill (Mr Daniel Bacquelaine and Mr Damien Thiéry) amending the Law of 16 July 1973, which guarantees the protection of ideological and philosophical principles, No. 85/1; - the bill (Mr Daniel Bacquelaine and Mr Denis Ducarme) amending the law of 21 March 1964 on the betting of members of the Court of Auditors and the law of 22 March 1995 establishing federal ombudsmen, No. 86/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u24	- the motion for a resolution (Mrs Sonja Becq and Mr Veli Yüksel) on the revision of the Criminal Code, No. 56/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Sonja Becq) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to the fees for second-line legal assistance, No. 64/1; - the bill (Mrs Sonja Becq cs) amending the Civil Code as regards the right to the hire of spouses and of legal and factual cohabitants, No. 65/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Sonja Becq cs) amending the legislation with a view to introducing the parental plan in the event of divorce, No. 66/1; - the bill (Mrs Sonja Becq) amending the Civil Code as regards the liberating payment to the surviving spouse, No. 67/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen cs) on the quality account of real estate agents, No. 68/1; - the bill (Mrs Nahima Lanjri cs) establishing a Federal Family Impact Assessment, No. 69/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u25	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Jef Van den Bergh, Mr Roel Deseyn and Mr Veli Yüksel) on better recognition of signs for persons with colour impairment, No. 57/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Roel Deseyn and Mr Veli Yüksel) amending the law of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications, as regards net neutrality, No. 59/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Roel Deseyn cs) amending the law of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications as regards access to the Internet as a basic right, No. 60/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u26	- the legislative proposal (Mr Daniel Bacquelaine cs) on the distribution of pension rights between spouses and between legally resident persons, No. 89/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Daniel Bacquelaine cs) amending the Royal Decree of 22 December 1967 laying down general rules on the retirement and survivor's pension of selfemployed persons as regards the four-month period for the decision on the pension, No. 92/1; - the bill (Mr David Clarinval and Mr Daniel Bacquelaine) amending Royal Decree No. 50 of 24 October 1967 on the retirement and survivor's pension for employed persons, as regards the ceilings on actual wages, No. 75/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Daniel Bacquelaine and Mr David Clarinval) amending the Law of 5 December 1968 on collective agreements and joint committees with a view to the recognition of representative trade union organizations of management staff, No. 79/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Daniel Bacquelaine cs) supplementing Article 14 of the Act of 28 April 2003 on supplementary pensions and the tax system for such pensions and certain supplementary social security benefits, No. 88/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Daniel Bacquelaine cs) establishing a new statutory pension scheme, No. 90/1. - the legislative proposal (Mr Daniel Bacquelaine and Mr David Clarinval) amending Article 64 of the Law of 28 December 1983 laying down fiscal and budgetary provisions, as regards the limitation period for the recovery of special social security contributions, No. 91/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u27	- the legislative proposal (Mr Daniel Bacquelaine cs) amending the programme law of 23 December 2009 to extend aid to agriculture, No. 78/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Daniel Bacquelaine cs) extending the audit of the Court of Auditors to the use of the funds collected by organizations relying on the generosity of the population, No. 87/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u28	- the legislative proposal (Mrs David Clarinval and Mr Daniel Bacquelaine) amending Article 16 of the Act of 10 November 2006 on opening hours in trade, crafts and services in connection with opening hours in the event of obstruction by public works, No. 76/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u29	In accordance with the opinion of today's Conference of Presidents, I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution (Ms Nathalie Muylle et al.) to improve the diagnosis and care of people with chronic fatigue syndrome, No 53/1; - the motion for a resolution (Ms Sonja Becq et al.) on the development of a strategic plan to combat and address the problem of obesity, No 55/1; - the bill (Ms. Nathalie Muylle et al.) to amend the Law on Hospitals and Other Care Facilities, coordinated on 10 July 2008, with regard to fee supplements, No. 58/1; - the proposal for a law (Ms. Nahima Lanjri and Nathalie Muylle) to prohibit the charging of supplements during the hospitalization of a person who, for medical or psychosocial reasons, needs permanent assistance from a family member or a third person, No. 62/1; - the bill (Ms. Nahima Lanjri and Nathalie Muylle) amending the Law on Hospitals and Other Care Facilities, coordinated on 10 July 2008, with a view to translating gender equality into the terminology used, No. 63/1; - the proposal for a law (Ms Nathalie Muylle et al.) regulating the reuse of single-use medical devices, No. 70/1; - the bill (MM. Daniel Bacquelaine and Damien Thiéry) amending the Act of 1 July 1969 establishing the right of disabled persons and war orphans to health care at the expense of the State, No. 80/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u30	- the motion for a resolution (Ms Nahima Lanjri et al.) on the need to draw up an approach plan for asbestos fires, No 54/1; - the bill (Ms. Len Dierick and Veerle Heeren) amending the Act of 11 April 1994 on the advertising of the administration, No. 61/1; - the bill (MM. Denis Ducrame and Daniel Bacquelaine and Mrs Kattrin Jadin) amending the Act on the election to the European Parliament of 23 March 1989 in order to grant the right to vote in European elections to Belgians residing outside the European Union, No 77/1; - the bill (MM. Daniel Bacquelaine and Denis Ducrame) amending the Electoral Code to prohibit the wearing of signs of conviction by members of electoral offices, No. 81/1; - the motion for a resolution (MM. Daniel Bacquelaine and Denis Ducrame) to prohibit the wearing of signs of conviction within the public administration of the Federal State and the public interest bodies which depend on it, No 84/1; - the bill (MM. Daniel Bacquelaine and Damien Thiéry) amending the Act of 16 July 1973 guaranteeing the protection of ideological and philosophical tendencies, No. 85/1; - the bill (MM. Daniel Bacquelaine and Denis Ducrame) amending the Act of 21 March 1964 on the salaries of members of the Court of Auditors and the Act of 22 March 1995 establishing federal ombudsmen, No. 86/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u31	- the motion for a resolution (Ms. Sonja Becq and Mr. Veli Yüksel) on the revision of the Penal Code, No. 56/1; - the proposal for a law (Ms. Sonja Becq) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to allowances for second-line legal aid, No. 64/1; - the draft law (Ms. Sonja Becq et al.) amending the Civil Code with regard to the right to lease of spouses and legal or de facto cohabitants, No. 65/1; - the proposal for a law (Ms. Sonja Becq et al.) amending the legislation with a view to introducing the parental plan in the event of divorce, No. 66/1; - the draft law (Ms. Sonja Becq) amending the Civil Code with regard to the release of the surviving spouse, No. 67/1; - the proposal for a law (Mr Raf Terwingen et al.) on the quality account for real estate agents, No. 68/1; - the proposal for a law (Ms. Nahima Lanjri et al.) introducing a federal family impact report, No. 69/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u32	- the motion for a resolution (MM. Jef Van den Bergh, Roel Deseyn and Veli Yüksel) on improving road signs and signals for people with dyschromatopsia, No. 57/1; - the bill (MM. Roel Deseyn and Veli Yüksel) amending the Law of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications, as regards network neutrality, No 59/1; - the bill (Mr Roel Deseyn et al.) amending, as regards access to the Internet as a fundamental right, the Act of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications, No. 60/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u33	- the proposal for a law (Mr Daniel Bacquelaine et al.) on the division of pension rights between spouses and legal cohabitants, No. 89/1; - the proposal for a law (Mr Daniel Bacquelaine et al.) amending the Royal Decree of 22 December 1967 on the general regulation on retirement and survivors' pensions for self-employed persons, concerning the four-month period for taking a decision on pensions, No 92/1; - the bill (MM. David Clarinval and Daniel Bacquelaine) amending Royal Decree No. 50 of 24 October 1967 on the retirement and survival pension of employed persons with regard to the ceilings for actual remuneration, No. 75/1; - the bill (MM. Daniel Bacquelaine and David Clarinval) amending the Act of 5 December 1968 on collective labour agreements and joint committees, with a view to the recognition of organizations representing managers, No. 79/1; - the proposal for a law (Mr Daniel Bacquelaine et al.) supplementing Article 14 of the Act of 28 April 2003 on supplementary pensions and their tax arrangements and certain supplementary social security benefits, No. 88/1; - the proposal for a law (Mr Daniel Bacquelaine et al.) introducing a new system of statutory pensions, No. 90/1; - the bill (MM. Daniel Bacquelaine and David Clarinval) amending Article 64 of the Law of 28 December 1983 on fiscal and budgetary provisions, No 91/1, as regards the limitation period for the collection of special social security contributions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u34	- the proposal for a law (Mr Daniel Bacquelaine et al.) amending the programme law of 23 December 2009 with a view to extending aid for agriculture, No 78/1; - the proposal for a law (Mr Daniel Bacquelaine et al.) to extend the control of the Court of Auditors to the use of funds raised by bodies relying on public generosity, No 87/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u35	- the bill (MM. David Clarinval and Daniel Bacquelaine) amending article 16 of the Act of 10 November 2006 on opening hours in commerce, crafts and services, concerning opening hours in the event of nuisances caused by public works, No. 76/1. Reference to the Committee on Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, there will be another meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee after this plenary session. In principle, this was the last plenary session of this sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-plenair-ip003x.u37	The sitting is closed. The Chamber shall be divided until further notice. The meeting is adjourned. The Chamber adjourned until further convocation.
