ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u1	Madam President, I would like to speak on the organisation of work. Under the previous legislature, in order to avoid reading exercises that are limited to this, it was our custom, and not only in this committee, to be able to transform certain oral questions into written questions but to obtain the written answer immediately. Does this type of device still exist?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u2	The minister made a proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u3	We can operate as before, but I will pass on the written answers at the end of the commission because it has happened that the answers are already on the Internet before the end of the commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u4	That's fine, there's no problem. It's just to avoid reading exercises. It saves everyone time!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u5	These questions and answers are then published in the Written Questions and Answers Bulletin. Oral questions are transformed immediately; there is no additional process to take. I will recall the rules at a meeting where everyone will be present when we discuss the organization of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u6	Madam President, I will of course try to strictly respect all the precepts you have given us. Madam Minister, you have already explained yourself on the issue recently in the press. That was indeed necessary. I see from the speeches of my colleagues that the problem will be dealt with in a comprehensive way. I had focused my question on assigning INAMI numbers to dentistry. I think the problem remains substantially the same in dentistry and medicine. In both cases, access to the profession is limited by assigning an INAMI number to a specified number of graduates. There has been a certain enthusiasm for dentistry studies in recent years, and I am also thinking of an even greater quota for the allocation of INAMI numbers in medicine. There is a substantial increase in students approaching the end of their course. At the University of Liège in particular, which I know in particular, the number of master 2 students has thus increased from 10 in 2013 to 30 in 2014, and this trend seems to be continuing for the following years. However, the number of INAMI numbers available is 17. As a result, these students find themselves, after five years of study to gain access to a profession, uncertain about their future. Minister, I would like to hear from you, although I know that you have already explained yourself on this subject. Are you planning to increase the number of INAMI numbers in order to allow these graduate students to practice their profession in this specific branch? In what way? What measures do you intend to take to address this problem in the longer term? This is an urgent question. The question certainly deserves to be put in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u7	Madam President, Madam Minister, we know that, as a general practitioner, you are aware of the shortage of doctors, which the press has often mentioned. Because some propose to import foreign doctors, students trained in Belgium have no guarantee of practising medicine, once they have graduated, due to the too limited number of INAMI numbers required for the practice of the profession. According to the latest forecasts, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation had to graduate between 6 500 and 7,500 doctors between 2014 and 2020, all for a total of 2,830 INAMI numbers. To this end, only one in three students would be able to receive their INAMI number. In the face of protests from the Inter-Universal Committee of Medical Students (ICUM), the Fédération des étudiants francophones (FEF), the Vlaams Geneeskundig Studenten Overleg (VGSO) and the Youth Council last March, your predecessor pledged to guarantee medical students an INAMI number at the end of their course. This issue concerns not only medical students, but all our fellow citizens. The shortage of doctors alters the quality of health care. An even greater reduction in the number of physicians could lead to an increase in health care costs and, in doing so, create a two-tiered medicine. Your interventions at the October plenary session, as well as at the presentation of your political guidance note, indicate your support for the idea of an entry examination, since you have stated that the Communities will have to assume their responsibilities, given the over-enrolment at the entrance to studies. For our part, we oppose such an eventuality because it amounts to considering students as having sufficient basic medical skills or not. Success, however, is a dynamic that gains and improves over the years. Before we open the debate on the type of selection, we need to have a clear and transparent view of the shortage in our country and the number of students starting their medical studies. Your government agreement goes in the right direction by providing for the establishment of a very detailed and reliable cadastre for all health care professions. But your majority partner, the MR, admitted that he had no plans to issue INAMI numbers, at least in the short term. You also reiterated your intention to ask the FPS Public Health for a full view of the file. Minister, can you tell me if the cadastre will be relevant to the specialized medical offer? Is an ongoing assessment of general and specialized medical activity also planned on the occasion of annual cadastres? When will we get the first numbers of the cadastre? Finally, is an increase in the number of internship places available for all medical and dental students planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u8	Madam President, Madam Minister, I have already had the opportunity to ask you a number of questions on this matter, even if you have not been here for a very long time. It is true that the government agreement speaks only of one thing, of a cadastre. If I may say so, it's been at least ten years since we've had this cadastre. Of course, we can't act as if it didn't exist. Of course, it can always be improved and refined. At the same time, it is also known that practices in the health sector are changing, just as elsewhere in the world of work. An INAMI number does not amount to a full-time equivalent, far from it. I think we are responsible – I am targeting all public authorities – for the current situation, which is surreal not only for students but also for universities. Students are trapped and spend seven years on university benches for nothing. This represents a significant cost to both parents and taxpayers. Moreover, on the human level, weighing this uncertainty on students is completely unacceptable! Today, we have even created upside down discrimination for our doctors and dentists; indeed, I would point out that, during this time, doctors and dentists who have graduated at European level can benefit, when they arrive in Belgium, from almost automatic obtaining an INAMI number. We cannot, as some too often do, present this situation as a community history. Let us recall that Dutch speakers too will, as of this year, have a higher number of doctors and dentists who have graduated than the quota allocated to them. The question therefore arises for the whole of Belgium. Madam Minister, you have seen most of the actors involved in this matter. What's your status? What are the tracks on which you can move? May I say that there is an emergency? Some of them are already in the middle of their fourth doctorate. You know how strategic this period is with the famous exam called "mammouth". You know him. It is now that decisions must be made by the end of this year. In addition, a double cohort will be released in 2018: those in the seven-year-old curriculum and those in the six-year-old curriculum. This will also worsen the situation for the search for internships in general medicine or for specialist doctors. Can you talk about the solutions? These are obviously avenues of solution that need to be found. We believe that they are two orders and that they must be combined. First of all, it is a matter of having the very clear principle that a Belgian graduate, doctor or dentist, must be able to obtain, after completing his studies, an INAMI number if he so requests. On the other hand, a filter can no longer be considered at the end of the studies, but a filter must be able to be discussed and examined at the entrance, provided that each student has a chance to succeed and begin his or her medical studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u9	Madam Chair, Minister, I am aware that my questions tabled a few weeks ago may appear to be redundant. This is the first time that we have had the opportunity to put questions to you as a result of a problem that you know and which we follow on a daily basis. This is quite normal because there is a significant concern in the head of thousands of medical and dentistry students in our country. Furthermore, as Mrs Fonck has just said, families are investing huge amounts of money in long-term training, which requires a great deal of effort. In the end, however, it is not clear whether, after graduation, we will be able to work. I make a brief technical reminder trying not to be redundant. In 1998, Belgium, like other European countries, introduced a system for planning the medical supply applied for the first time in 2004. The planning of the medical supply is laid down at the federal level by Royal Decree No. 78 on the exercise of the health care professions. Articles 35g et seq. create the Planning Commission and set out the principles of planning. Currently, the maximum number of medical graduates who have access annually to training for a medical specialty with general medicine of 1,230 per year for the years 2015 to 2017, 2,460 for the year 2018 and 1,230 for the years 2019 and 2020. This maximum number is then allocated by Community. A method of smoothing is also provided for in the Order. This allows the Communities to present deficits or surpluses of candidates in relation to the quotas set annually, until 2018 when these differences will have to be eliminated, otherwise the traineeship plans introduced that year will not be accepted. But this smoothing technique comes to exhaustion and there will no longer be enough INAMI numbers for students who pass their studies. The current system of planning the medical supply seems to clearly show its limitations. Indeed, the surplus of doctors over quotas and therefore the number of INAMI numbers available has only increased in recent years. The minimum requirements for certain specialities in need are not always met. At the plenary session on 23 October, you said that you had asked the FPS Public Health to have as soon as possible an inventory of the dossier and a full view of the places available in the various health professions, as well as their planned development. Concertation with the Planning Commission and all relevant stakeholders should also be organised. According to your government agreement, a detailed and reliable cadastre of the health care professions will have to allow the planning commission to better match the influx into the health professions. A cadastre for the health care professions is currently in operation. An improved cadastre also exists and allows for linkage with other data from various sources such as ONSS, INASTI or INAMI. A law on various health provisions passed last February amended Article 35g of Royal Decree 78 in order to allow for a permanent cross-checking of the available data. My questions are as follows, minister. Do you now have a specific record of the file? When can the results of the improved cadastre be known? What obstacles do you still encounter in the implementation of this improved cadastre, knowing that the legal basis is already foreseen to ensure its operationality? Finally, given the concern within the student community and the urgency of the situation, has the planned consultation with the Planning Commission and the Communities started? What are the conclusions of your meeting with the students on November 6th? Are concrete measures finally envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u10	I thought it was important to have a different voice in this debate. The situation is well known and has already been described here. Many French-speaking students will graduate medicine and dentistry without having the opportunity to practice their chosen profession. Due to the quota introduced 15 years ago, several French-speaking students cannot obtain the necessary RIZIV number today. Where Flanders chose to limit the influx by means of an entrance exam and thus control the outflow, that is not insignificant, the French-speaking government and universities chose to wait and take no action. The fact that the students are now concerned and angry about this is understandable, but if we can believe the Minister responsible, that is really not necessary, because he has once thought for five minutes and had already found the solution: 'Just scrape the French students who have left for France and the problem has been solved.' It was as simple as that for Minister Marcourt. For the umpteenth time, the PS refuses to take responsibility. That bothers me a little, because in the end we have to find a structural solution. Not only do I find it very regrettable that hundreds of French-speaking students are being put in the cold, which is a pity, but also the thousands of Flemish students who have made very hard efforts in recent years to pass the entrance exams are laughing at them. That way, they're laughing in the face. Several of them saw their dreams lost, although the difference is that they have not lost another six years of their lives, because that is now the case on the other side of the language border. Madam Minister, it is quite understandable that the French-speaking students are focusing their hopes on the federal government to solve the problem rather than on the French-speaking government, but I think they have been misinformed. I heard my fellow Members once again shift responsibility at the federal level, which, in my view, is, in the first instance, undoubtedly at the French-speaking level. However, I would like to ask you the following, although I hope I already know your answer: do you not think, like Minister Marcourt, that the proposal he made will be the great panacea to solve that problem in one stone?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u11	I will ask my question without repeating everything that has already been said. I would like to focus on the policies that can be pursued at the federal level to try to better match the medical supply with a proper assessment of needs. To do this, I believe it will be necessary to organize otherwise the identification of care needs in the different territories. But it is also important to have data that can be used to find out who, today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, is actually working full time on the ground. Where do doctors, general practitioners or specialists actually work? It's easier to determine for dentists. Among those who do not work full-time through INAMI reimbursements – since this is how their full-time equivalent is assessed – some work in other places that are also useful and necessary such as ONE, Kind in Gezin or occupational medicine. These medical sectors are also to be upgraded. Minister, my questions relate to the need for information we have. Can we really have this type of data today? How do we consult them, understand them, know them? Do these data give these answers or will data collection need to be organized differently so as to have an up-to-date photograph that can be scalable? There is obviously a solution to be found for these students who will complete their studies. It is unacceptable to tell them that they have been educated without having access to the profession they wanted to pursue. I believe that it is possible to take action at the federal level with regard to an assessment of needs and an organization of the provision of care and that it is also possible to organize studies at Community level in the fields of health. I do not want to mix the skills and responsibilities that must be exercised where they apply.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u12	Madam Chair, I thank all members for their questions. Since there are six questions attached, this must be a very important problem. First of all, I would like to recall what is meant by "limiting access to the profession of dental or medical practitioner" because this concept is often confused with the idea that there would be only a limited number of INAMI numbers available for these professions. The so-called restrictions of access to the practice of the profession were laid down in the royal decrees of 12 June 2008 for doctors and 19 August 2011 for dentists. The quotas, as set out in these royal decrees, have been drawn up on the advice of the Planning Commission, a medical body in which doctors and dentists also sit. These quotas have been carefully considered. These decrees specify how many medical and dental candidates can access the training that leads to the professional title concerned each year. This quota is a federal competence and must be implemented by the federated entities at the level of education. Planning is an effective implementation. Caregivers also need a detailed and reliable cadastre of all health professions, which takes over the actual activity of the providers. This provides a good basis on which planning committees, through clear quota agreements, can rely to better adapt the influx into the health professions to the needs of the population. This adjustment will be carried out after consultation with the competent authorities of the Communities. Before considering measures to be taken, it is important to remember why the legislator has put in place quotas for doctors and dentists. The aim was to solve a public health problem, i.e. to avoid suffering from a situation similar to that of the 1980s where the plethora of these professionals had a negative impact on both the quality of care and expenditure on health care and on the professional future of young graduates. We all remember the poignant situations of the past, when doctors graduated who saw ten to fifteen patients per week and who had to hope for years that their partner made some money to live on them, not for a few years as a starter, but for ten or fifteen years. The current quota mechanism involves actors other than the federal government. That is why I believe that consultation with the Communities is essential before any measure, such as raising quotas, can be considered. It seems clear to me that all those involved will have to shoulder their responsibilities. It is therefore important to find a sustainable solution, a solution that does not penalise students, but also takes account of the shortcomings identified through the dynamic register and the announced amount, which, above all, guarantees the quality and future of our healthcare system. It is therefore also important to wait for the results of the ongoing work within the RIZIV, which now allow the current register to be crossed with the care providers in Belgium with the data on the activity rate of the care providers. Unfortunately, that work is not yet complete. It is expected in the course of 2015. Within my administration, the numerical data of the SPF INAMI - datawarehouse labour market and Social Protection are being exploited to establish the cadastre of the labour force of doctors and dentists, as has already been done for nurses and physiotherapists. The results are expected in the course of 2015. This dynamic improved cadastre will give a clear view by specialty of the activity of doctors and dentists. I would like to make it clear once again that the paper published in the press last week was only a first draft which was far from complete. On the basis of a legislative amendment made by the last Health Act to Royal Decree No. 78 on the health care professions, it is envisaged that the above data will be permanently linked. This linkage will enable activity data from all health professions to be obtained once a year in order to accurately describe the labour force by occupation, i.e. the number of active persons, the number of full-time equivalents, the distribution between sectors and sub-sectors of activity, health care or other services. The multiannual data will help to determine the evolution of each occupational group and to agree on quotas with greater relevance for the future. So we are working on a sustainable solution, not only for this year and next, but also for the ten to fifteen years ahead. It is important to ensure the quality of the training of our doctors and dentists, as well as the quality of the health care they can offer. Maintaining and sustaining the organisation of our health care is particularly important.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u13	Minister, thank you for all this clarification. I would also like to thank you for finally taking this dossier with arms to consider a lasting solution, which you recalled the need for. When I graduated from university, my work at the end of my studies concerned the equivalence of diplomas within "Bologne". There is a lot of talk about community in this committee. You won't have escaped that I'm a German-speaking man. However, many German speakers had to attend their studies abroad, for fear of a certain quota. Although very well trained, they never returned to Belgium again. The difficult situation we are talking about requires quick solutions. In addition, none of the levels of authority has sufficiently assumed its responsibilities. Indeed, even by establishing certain rules for medical studies – a generic term that I prefer to use, since my question also concerned dentistry – these bodies have created a certain legal uncertainty whose first victims will be the students who will complete their course this year. I sincerely hope that you will make every effort to create this cadastre, and I hope that you will learn from this situation. Of course, this will have to be organised in consultation with the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u14	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers, which for me remain very, very vague. Of course, you are at the beginning of the legislature and you can be excused. But obviously, there is an urgent need to have figures on this cadastre. What is urgent is to find an immediate solution for all these students, who will arrive at the end of seven years of study and who are asking questions about their future. I hope you will invest all your energy to find positive solutions for all these students.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u15	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I agree with you, you can display the cadastre in question and I am confident that over the years there will always be a way to refine it more and more. True, the degree of activity is an important element. An INAMI number does not necessarily amount to a full-time equivalent. It is known that there is a change in practice in this area. I agree with you that a lasting solution is needed. On the other hand, I think that this cadastre – you mentioned 2015; it's already far away – cannot be an excuse to do nothing or to postpone solutions to an additional year. As of this year, because we have students who are today the first victims, I would like to remind you that everyone has to stop squandering about their position, both the federal and the Communities. Global and balanced solutions, with an intelligent articulation of the different levels of power for this quota problem, are possible. It is only at some point that there is a little good political will on both sides to be able to make progress in this area. It is too vital and too important not only for students but also for the quality of medicine and therefore for all patients; we must take measures of urgency but also of a balanced solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u16	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister very briefly for her answer. We can only applaud the detailed, accurate and reliable cadastre via coupling. This will give us a very precise view of the needs, supply and demand, with a view to the necessary adjustments. I urge you to start the necessary consultation with the Communities, to which Mrs Fonck has just referred. If solutions can be found in good intelligence, I think you will have our support. Having said that, I remain a little on my hunger for the immediate situation of those who complete their studies, after having devoted a lot of energy, time and money, and who do not know whether, tomorrow, they will be able to exercise. Of course, I don't want to overwhelm you since you've just arrived at the head of the department. That would be inelegant on my part and that is not my main characteristic. In any event, faced with this kind of reality, there is an urgent need for an answer. And I wonder about the possibility of transitional measures, for example, to try to respond to the current situation on an ad hoc basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u17	Madam Minister, we are following you very closely when you say that we need a detailed and reliable register first. However, I would like to point out that we are following you even more closely in your call for a structural solution. For us, this structural solution can only consist of the introduction, first of all, of a system by the French-speaking Community which aligns the number of students with the quota available to them. That is a first step, necessary to find a solution. That must be said clearly, because responsibility must be put at the right level. That is why it is important for us not to talk about general pardons, however regrettable it is that the wrong people are the victims of this. There can be no general pardon without a structural solution and promises for the future, based on the two Communities. It is not possible for one Community to have to bear the consequences, while it has for years been taking up its responsibilities and rewarding the other for its postponement. In any case, we do not want to endorse that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u18	Madam Minister, of course I cannot blame you for not being able to give us a detailed cadastre. You just got here. I started asking for figures in 2006, common by commune, including age. We realized, already at that time, that the cadastre we had did not include virtually any usable data. Since then, this cadastre has been claimed and promised. We have nothing to organize the offer of care – it is not a cadastre for the pleasure of the cadastre. Personally, I am against quotas, because I think it is done in a disembodied way in relation to reality. I am more in favour of regulating the installation of doctors, according to the necessary specializations in the field. This is obviously a change. In my opinion, in order to meet the needs of students, whether they are in excess or not, it would be useful to have data on the places of internship and the time doctors will be able to devote to their future trainees. General practitioners need to be encouraged to register as future internship masters, because we need future general practitioners, more students are moving towards this specialization. In some hospitals, there are problems of availability on the part of trainee teachers. That's important information. In terms of timing, I would really like to insist. Perhaps we could foresee regularity in the work, so that the data collection takes place quickly in 2015. If there is a message to be given, if any decisions are taken, it is important that they are argued and that we have data as soon as possible. Do you think we could get them in the first quarter of 2015? And even if this problem has a federal dimension, we must also not forget that there are students running around. There is the equivalence of diplomas, there is the free movement of workers. We are confronted with Belgians who are refused and foreigners who are accepted; Belgians who can go to work abroad. These are situations that are complicated and inevitably intersect.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u19	Thank you for all your questions and all the elements you have addressed. It is clear that this is an urgent matter, after fifteen years. I'm hurrying, but I still need a very broad consultation. This concerns the three Communities. We must realize that there are really different sensitivities in the three Communities. It's up to me to negotiate. A lasting solution must be found in the North, the South and the German-speaking Community.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u20	Danke schön!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u21	Can we close this debate for today?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u22	For today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u23	Of course. In January, the work of the commission will be organized. If we want to work differently, we can decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u24	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, this is a subject that I care about and that led me to ask you this question. In the course of October, the Federal Commission for the Control and Evaluation of Euthanasia published its last report covering the years 2012 and 2013. He reported an increase in the use of euthanasia in the order of 26%. Since 2002, the number of statements addressed to the Commission has increased steadily, but this increase has been even greater since 2011. Cancer remains, as in previous years, the most common cause of euthanasia claims, but there is also an increase in cases where the cause is a combination of several incurable diseases, a neuromuscular condition or a cardiovascular condition. At the same time, although the 40-79 age group remains the most affected, there is an increase in cases involving older persons (80-99 years) or younger persons (20-29 years). Some data are similar to previous reports. There is still an astonishing difference between the number of euthanasias practised in the north of the country (80%) and the south (20%). Early reporting remains marginal (2 per cent) and the vast majority of requests for euthanasia concern persons whose death is imminent (87%). There are no suspicious cases requiring judicial intervention. The checks were carried out in a manner that strictly and scrupulously complied with the law. This can be welcomed because it is proof that our law has been very well done. Minister, can you give me more details on the Commission's analysis of the above data? Has a particular event caused this larger increase since 2011? The previous reports, which I have read carefully for my strong interest in this matter, pointed to the need to inform the public on the one hand and the medical profession on the other hand in the most precise way on the subject. Have any specific actions been taken in this regard? The next report will be particularly interesting because it will cover the years 2014 and 2015, and therefore the analysis of the extension of the law to minors, but it is not expected until 2016. Do you, however, have some information about the first few months of application of this new regulation?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u25	Mrs Jadin, the Federal Commission for the Control and Evaluation of Euthanasia has only statistical data from the registration documents. On this basis, therefore, I can only make assumptions. These increases are likely due to the gradual dissemination of information on end-of-life decisions to the public and the medical profession and a wider awareness of the law, which was ten years old at the time of data collection for the 2012-2013 report. These elements may lead to a change in attitudes. Those who fall under the criteria of the law would more easily dare to address the issue when they would not likely have done so before. With regard to the disparity between the number of euthanasias practised in the north of the country and in the south, I do not have any information on the reasons for this disproportion. Since the application of the Act of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia, a number of specific measures have been taken to inform the population and health professionals. The Euthanasia Commission has repeatedly stressed the importance of informing the public and doctors about the legal possibilities for the end of life in Belgium. This is not limited to euthanasia alone, but also to other options such as the drafting of an advance declaration of will through early care planning. On the website of the Public Health FPS, various information for the public, doctors and municipal administrations is published, not only to explain the law on euthanasia but also to give information on the advance declaration of euthanasia. The portal belgium.be also details, in its "end of life" section, the law on euthanasia, as well as the conditions and procedure it requires. In addition, the Euthanasia Commission drafted and distributed, as early as 2005, an information brochure for the medical profession. It provides physicians with guidance on the scope of certain terms of the Act of 28 May 2002. This explanatory brochure was systematically sent to physicians who used Phase 1 of the euthanasia registration document either to make a simple remark or to ask for further explanations. It is also available on the FPS Public Health website under "euthanasia". Since the entry into force of the Act of 28 February 2014 amending the above-mentioned Act, with a view to extending euthanasia to minors, a document specifically intended to record euthanasia of a minor non-emancipated patient has been drawn up by members of the Federal Commission for the Control and Evaluation of Euthanasia. It has also been made available to physicians on the FPS Public Health website. However, as of 31 October, no document of registration of a minor who was not emancipated has been received by the above-mentioned commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u26	Madam Minister, thank you. This is a difficult topic, but I wanted to ask you for this information, in order to corroborate what appears in the press. I understand that the FPS has made every effort to provide the fullest possible information to those who are first-line affected by a request that could be addressed to them in terms of end-of-life. The question is not whether this extension law, which was previously passed by the House, is being used extensively. It is simply a question of whether this freedom can exist. Thank you very much, Minister, for your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u27	Jadin, I attended a conference a few months ago with representatives of Flemish and Francophone doctors. I noted a fundamental difference: Flemish doctors – as well as Dutch doctors – mention to their patients concerned the possibility of euthanasia among the various possible options (palliative care, etc.). On the Francophone side, however, this alternative is not presented.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u28	Madam President, this aspect remains a mystery to me. Thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u29	Madam President, Madam Minister, on the occasion of the 24 hours of cycling held in Louvain-la-Neuve on October 15 and 16 – this is a bit old but the question was asked a while ago – an advertising campaign led by a large brewing group has been debated. Advertising folders including coupons and slogans such as "good points deserve good pints" have been distributed on the university site. This practice seems scandalous to me! In the area of alcohol advertising, a convention signed by the actors concerned (CRIOC, brewers, COMEOS, Test-Achats, etc.) and the Jury of Public Ethics was adopted in January 2013. In particular, it provides for a ban on boasting the positive effects of alcohol and targeting young people or the mandatory mention of the phrase "Berer brewed with knowledge is tasted wisely". This convention was amended a few months ago because of its total inefficiency, as my group has repeated on many occasions. It was and is still very interpretable and sanctions are not important enough. Self-regulation in this area has largely shown its limitations. This new drift is yet another striking example. Minister, do you intend to react, or have you reacted to the advertising to which I refer? Does this advertising not directly violate the convention that explicitly prohibits targeting young people? Do you intend to evaluate and possibly review this convention? Such an assessment in a very short period of time seems indispensable to me. On the one hand, the lack of public health representatives among the signatories of the convention is an area of concern as there are many health issues related to alcohol. On the other hand, the publicity referred to here illustrates the fact that this Convention is not satisfactory, that self-regulation is not sufficient. It's time to act! Minister, do you intend to take legislative action on alcohol advertising? Finally, more generally, we believe that the fight against excessive alcohol consumption must be based on a comprehensive national plan that would involve different levels of power and include various measures such as awareness-raising, combating alcohol driving, measures relating to the availability of alcohol, advertising, labelling of alcoholic beverages and improving the quality of care for people with alcohol-related problems. In the previous legislature, the implementation of such a plan was discussed in the Interministerial Conference on Health, but it was not adopted due to the lack of consensus between some 20 ministers involved in the matter. Do you intend to relaunch such an initiative, or at least a consultation with the other ministers concerned with this topic? The fight against the harmful use of alcohol, particularly among our young people, deserves our full attention and I would like to know your priorities in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u30	Madam President, Mrs Matz, as soon as my administration became aware of this campaign, she filed a complaint with the Jury d'Ethique Publicitaire on October 15. A week later, on 22 October, the latter considered that AB InBev's campaign was not an infringement. This notice was published on the Jury's website. The Convention contains several provisions on advertising for minors. I will discuss with my administration whether these measures are sufficiently strict or whether it would be preferable to develop them. Nevertheless, I am convinced that effective self-regulation can take place in this sector. If it appears to be insufficient, new regulatory initiatives may be considered. Harmful alcohol consumption has a substantial negative impact on our health, our economy, road safety, etc. This problem is too often underestimated, but it deserves due attention – a fortiori when minors are involved. I am convinced of the need for the national strategy to combat alcohol abuse. This implies first and foremost collaboration between the competent ministers at both the federal and the federated levels. Secondly, such a strategy must be balanced. This means that it includes initiatives aimed at prevention, assistance, call availability, data collection, research, etc. In conclusion, such a strategy must be supported. In other words, it should be based on scientific research and should receive as broad a social support as possible. My administration has provided substantial preparatory work in this regard. I will discuss with her whether it is possible to develop a new proposal within, of course, the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health. The aim is to meet the requirements already mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u31	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. I am glad to hear that you want to set up a new national strategy combining the different levels of power on this subject. Indeed, I think I know that the last time this national plan failed by little. I therefore welcome your intention to relaunch the machine, if I may say so. Having said that, I have learned the motivation of the Jury of Ethics Publicitaire that the latter can only punish alcohol when the advertisement argues that by drinking alcohol, one can party. In other words, you can only party by drinking alcohol. I'm not sure the difference is great when it is suggested that drinking alcohol makes you smart and has good points. Anyway, she's very tenuous. On this point, the jurisprudence of the Jury of Public Ethics is, in my view, strange to say the least. Self-regulation clearly demonstrates its limitations in relation to this type of advertising. So I cannot agree with you when you say self-regulation is effective. The advertising for the 24 hours to which I referred clearly constitutes a drift that has not been sanctioned by self-regulation, nor by the Jury of Public Ethics. The question therefore arises as to whether, in this specific area, a further step should be taken and the development of legislation should be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u32	Questions Nos. 95, 96, 97, 98 and 342 by Mrs. Nathalie Muylle, who is ill, are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u33	Madam President, Minister, the government is considering the shortening of maternity leave after delivery as a measure to save money in the budget of our health care system. This measure calls on me! While it is true that the length of stay in maternity after delivery in Belgium is on average a little longer than in many other Western countries, the comparison cannot stop there. Other criteria such as the services and accompaniment offered to the young mother and her newborn on their return home are decisive and vary greatly from country to country. The Federal Centre of Expertise (KCE) believes that the introduction of this measure to shorten the length of stay in maternity must be integrated into a fundamental reorganization of postnatal care. Minister, do you intend to put in place this profound reorganisation of care, as advocated by the KCE, particularly with regard to better home follow-up of the young mother and her newborn? If so, what specific measures do you intend to put in place to ensure quality home follow-up? Has any thought been given to the impact of such a measure both in terms of health for mothers and newborns and in financial terms? If so, could you inform us of the results of this reflection? The stay at the hospital is a time when the young mother is surrounded and accompanied in the first gestures related to her new identity as a mother. She can receive the care she needs, but also call on skilled professionals who will take the time to teach her the right things, answer her concerns and answer her questions. Is the shortening of the duration of this stay not likely to lead to a weakening of this accompaniment and have disastrous consequences for particularly vulnerable women and their newborns?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u34	Madam President, Minister, I am really in the middle of my practical experience with this question, so I am absolutely satisfied that I have the opportunity to ask a number of questions about it. From my former job the KCE-study has come, by the way, which makes very interesting recommendations. I myself am in favour, after a comparison with the countries around us, of considering the reduction in the number of days laid down after a non-complicated delivery. There are already very good evidence-based practical examples, especially in Flanders. In countries such as the United Kingdom, the number of days is one to two. This of course implies good conditions, good cooperation between maternity clinics and first and second-line care. This cooperation must also be structured, with care paths and so on. This also implies, as the KCE says, that midwife should receive a better wage in that pathway. This nomenclature needs to be changed, but also their role and role in primary care; and they need to be given a clearer place in cooperation with second-line care. Of course, I support the recommendations of the KCE. Madam Minister, in addition to these recommendations, I would like to make the following questions for you from my own practical experience. Do you agree with the recommendations of the KCE and will you introduce them? What concrete measures will you take to reform the funding system and to better support postnatal home care, knowing that this is a competence that you share with the Länder in terms of maternity care? Can midwife expect a better wage and better working conditions from you? Have you planned a consultation with all relevant actors, such as gynecologists, neonatists, general practitioners, midwife, maternity clinics and maternity care centres? You generally announce savings in health care. Do you think there can be saved at the start of life? For me, the answer is no, but I am happy to hear your answer. You also announce efficiency gains. You may see the reduction in the number of days lying down as an efficiency gain. I would have liked to have heard your views on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the KCE study was published at the end of October (Report No 232). The report mentions an average stay of 4.1 days in Belgium. However, INAMI's billing data shows an average stay time of 4.5 days. In 2015, we will adapt the billing system so that it coincides more with the actual length of stay. Indeed, the actual stay does not change yet. The aim is to adapt the billing system according to the presence at the hospital. This will result in savings of 11.7 million euros in 2015 and 14 million in 2016. The KCE study analysed the consequences of early return home (less than 48 hours or 72 hours depending on the study) for mothers and their newborns. First of all, it is important to point out that this estimate relates to uncomplicated low-level deliveries, healthy mothers and healthy babies. The international literature provides an analysis of the impact of early return home. In this configuration, no negative consequences have been demonstrated. This lack of negative consequences also implies that neonatal testing is organised at home. Particular attention should be paid to vulnerable families, primipares, very young mothers, single or isolated mothers. If, in the long term, we also want to align the length of hospitalisation of Belgian patients with the average 72 hours in OECD countries, a reorganization of postnatal care and an investment in this sector are needed. I intend to prepare this reform in 2015, in particular in consultation with midwives, organisations such as Kind & Gezin, ONE and DKF, specialists and my administrations. The Knowledge Centre has made a theoretical estimate based on a three-day hospital stay, supplemented by two home visits by a midwife. This shows that replacing part of the hospital stay with home care for the Belgian system can save from 264 euros to 431 euros per stay. This amount depends on whether or not there is maternity assistance when returning home. A study by the ULB indeed shows that the workload is less heavy during the last days of the hospital stay. This workload can be met at home at a lower cost. It is impossible to make an overall estimate for the whole of Belgium, as it is difficult to estimate precisely how many women would be eligible for a shorter hospital stay. These must be women without complications and where the socio-economic context of the family allows an early return. Therefore, before the system is introduced, the Knowledge Centre recommends testing its feasibility through pilot projects. It involves, as has already been said, a multidisciplinary care for mother and child, for which the financing mechanism will have to be adapted. The following points will require our special attention. First of all, a workload that may become excessive in maternity wards as a result of the concentration of care in three days. Secondly, the availability of a sufficient number of midwives for home follow-up. Thirdly, the most appropriate funding mechanism with the upgrading of midwifery work for the preparation and monitoring of home work. We must, of course, Wait for delivery. The midwife is supposed to be in contact with the pregnant woman even before birth. Analysis of these factors will provide women and their newborns with a quality of care similar to what they are currently experiencing, while achieving potential savings. Potential financial gains cover at least the maintenance of quality of care and proper follow-up at home. The reduction in the length of stay at the hospital will be filled by home follow-up, avoiding a lack of care between leaving the hospital and taking care of the organizations I have appointed. The other two elements to be taken into account in improving the efficiency of the system are, moreover, the preparation of the postpartum during the prenatal period and the improvement of cooperation between the various professionals. The preparation of the postpartum during prenatal follow-up allows for the detection of possible problems that families will have to face when a baby arrives. These pitfalls often prolong the stay in the hospital and currently many educational and information activities to parents are carried out during the stay in hospital. These activities can be partially transferred to the prenatal period, a more timely time to receive information and make the necessary choices for the organization of the postnatal period. This prenatal preparation would improve the transition from hospital to home. As regards the improvement of interprofessional cooperation, this is a second condition for optimising the efficiency of the system. Overconsumption of examinations and diagnoses, such as imaging or clinical biology, omission of neonatal screening, abandonment of vaccination programs, postnatal depression screening, could be avoided through improved interprofessional collaboration and communication. This interprofessional cooperation will also require a care coordinator, a shared electronic medical file integrated into the overall medical file, and the creation of a national platform for perinatal care. In conclusion, on the basis of examples from abroad, we can argue that the quality of care is not reduced by a short hospital stay with home care after that, which was thus already regulated as previously announced. According to the theoretical model calculated by the Knowledge Centre, this alternative would generate a financial gain for Belgium. It's hard to quantify. We must, of course, first work on pilot projects in order to determine the exact number of women involved. Efficiency also needs to be evaluated. Moreover, such a reform involves a reorganisation of postnatal care and investment in the sector. There will be an extensive consultation round which will include the expertise of the midwife, such as you, Mrs Dedry.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u36	Thank you, Madam Minister. I'm half satisfied with your answer. I hope that if we consider this faster return home, it will be linked to very important home care. You, as a health professional, and I, as a local agent or simply as a mother, know that returning home in an environment where the woman can be alone, without a family, is terribly difficult. This can sometimes create problems such as those we read in the various facts of our newspapers. For me, if we move to a lighter diet at the level of maternity stay, we need to ensure that the mother and the infant are properly monitored. It's not enough to make sure someone spends time at home from time to time, but you need real follow-up. We know that some women find themselves very poor when they return home.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u37	Madam President, Minister, I am pleased that you wish to consider almost all the recommendations made by the KCE on this matter. I also think it is a good idea for you to test this with pilot projects. I'm not a midwife myself, I'm a sociologist, but I represent the interests of the least fortunate on the first line. That's why I'm defending the interests of the midwife. There are a few details that I think are insufficient, such as just two days of house visits, which is too little, but these are practical effects. Overall, I am satisfied with your answer and I hope that we can test it with pilot projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u38	Madam President, Minister, our country is experiencing an ever greater shortage of blood. Very regularly, calls for donations are made through the media. In the summer of 2013, the Red Cross fired the alarm bell. At the same time, men who have sex with other men are, for the sole reason of being homosexual, de facto excluded from the possibility of giving their blood. The Red Cross questionnaire includes the question: "Do you have sex with another man". Next comes other questions such as "Do you use drugs?", "Are you HIV positive", etc. Homosexuality is thus placed on the same footing as proven risk behaviours, i.e. behaviours that do not ensure the good health of the donor candidate. Such a situation was called into question by the Council of Europe in 2013 by adopting a resolution on sexual behaviour in blood donors with an impact on transfusion safety. The resolution states that sexual behaviour at risk is behaviour that exposes individuals to a high risk or risk of contracting serious infectious diseases that may be transmitted by blood. Thus, there is no reference to a particular sexual orientation that should be permanently excluded. The Advocate General of the European Court of Justice also denounced this exclusion during this summer. Indeed, he believes – and it seems to us to be right – that a sexual relationship between two men is not, in itself and in itself, a behaviour that would justify the permanent exclusion of the donation of blood. This exclusion consists of double discrimination on the basis of sex and sexual orientation, which we cannot accept. It is also inconsistent in that a heterosexual person who maintains unprotected relationships on a regular basis is only temporarily contraindicated. Therefore, Madam Minister, can you tell me whether there are reliable statistics on the epidemiological situation in Belgium? Is a working group working on this issue again and, if so, when will the results of this work be achieved? Will the Red Cross questionnaire be reviewed as requested by the Court of Justice? If so, within what time frame? Is there any agreement on this with your European counterparts?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u39	Madam Chair, Member of Parliament, every patient has the right to receive blood as safe as possible. The decision regarding the non-acceptance of male donor candidates who have had sexual contact with another man is based on the assessment of the risk of contamination. The risk of HIV infection is several times higher for men who have had sex with another man. This is reflected in the latest report of the Scientific Institute of Public Health on the epidemiological situation. The Council of Europe's European Committee on Blood Transfusion recently took the initiative to set up a working group. The aim of the resolution is to carry out follow-up activities as mentioned in the recommendations of the resolution and thus achieve a harmonized interpretation of the exclusion criteria at the international level. In view of the fact that the working group has just been set up, a revision of the Red Cross questionnaire seems premature. Another recommendation of the resolution is its review in the light of experience. At that time, a consultation with my European counterparts is planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u40	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I believe that when someone wants to give blood, whether he is hetero- or homosexual, he is a responsible person! Blood donor candidates are not those who have had risky behaviours. It is very unfair to put homosexuals on a different footing than heterosexuals, who sometimes also have risky behaviours.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u41	This is a question that has already been asked many times and to which an answer will have to be found!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u42	It's not up to us to decide. This decision is the responsibility of the Red Cross.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u43	I hear well, but it is important to mention it because our society is made like this!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u44	This issue has been raised several times in this committee for 15 years!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u45	We hit the nail!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u46	You're doing well, Mrs. Caprisse!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u47	Minister, you are aware that the implementation of the relief zones scheduled for January 1, 2015 raises a number of questions, including the accreditation of ambulance services. If I ask you about this, it is because I have the great advantage of presiding over a relief zone, which faces some difficulties. These are the result of a Ministerial Circular on the Continuity of Emergency Medical Assistance Missions in Emergency Areas. The text mentions that it is up to the Minister of Public Health, after consultation with the Minister of the Interior, to set standards for the accreditation of services that collaborate in emergency medical aid. Otherwise, the above circular provides that the areas will maintain the points of departure and complementary departures of the currently licensed ambulance services. Minister, my question is simple. What is the status of the definition of new accreditation standards? Have you ever consulted the Minister of the Interior on this matter? If not, when can this be planned? Finally, if you have already taken this initiative, when could the new approvals be granted? I thank you in advance for the answers that you will like to give us.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u48	Mr Senesael, you were able to read in the government agreement that we want, during this legislature, to update the organization, pricing and reimbursement of urgent medical aid. I have asked my administration and the National Emergency Medical Council to prepare, in consultation with the sector, a road map in this area. Given the precise theme of the ambulance services in the rescue zones, my colleague from the interior will also be involved. Therefore, I have an appointment with him next month.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u49	Madam President, I hope that the minister will have the most pleasant meeting possible with her colleague, Mr Jambon.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u50	You're too good!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u51	I take it that, for the time being, the situation remains with regard to the departures of the currently approved ambulance services. Following this meeting, I assume that the roadmap will be able to clearly indicate the new implementation modalities from the beginning of 2015. Indeed, you are aware that paramedics and medical services are waiting for the practical arrangements that will have to be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u52	Madam President, Madam Minister, as you know better than I do, over-consumption of medicines in Belgium is a real problem. The figures show that the consumption of reimbursed drugs has doubled in 14 years. The sector's players are abounding in this direction. This was revealed in the press last September. I have heard you say on several occasions that for 15 years in this Parliament there has been talk of this problem; excuse me, but I am new! The drug would now have become a common consumer product. Needless to say, the negative effects of such overconsumption on the environment, on health in general, on the patient's portfolio and on the social security budget. In this situation, although everyone has a share of responsibility - far from me pointing out either - it would seem that the pharmaceutical industry is involved. Minister, many measures have been taken in recent years to limit the over-consumption of drugs, but also to preserve the social security budget. I am thinking in particular of the requirement for pharmacists to deliver the cheapest medicine, for example with regard to antimycotics and antibiotics. A recent survey has shown that almost 90% of "clients" are influenced by pharmacy marketing, 21% of doctors are influenced by firm marketing, and 74% of generalists believe that advertising is pushing to consume. Minister, is there no need to act on this lever as well? What measures are being taken or could be taken to limit the effects of advertising on the consumption of medicines in Belgium? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u53	Madam President, dear colleague, in its decision to use self-medication and in its choice to use a certain drug, the patient may be influenced by advertising for over-the-counter drugs to which he is exposed in the various media or at pharmacy counters. This is why all these advertisements intended for the general public are subject to pre-distribution checks, according to the provisions of the legislation on the advertising of medicinal products. However, I would point out that advertising for prescription medicines is still prohibited. This legislation is based on a European directive and Member States must comply with it. In general, advertising should promote the rational use of the medicinal product by presenting it objectively and without exaggerating its properties. She can't be misleading. Of course, the primary role played by the pharmacist in informing patients, especially in the case of self-medication, should be emphasized. It must advise patients in terms of rational use of medicines, price comparison and choice of appropriate packaging. I would add that the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) is making every effort to provide access to and disseminate relevant information on drugs. It has created a section on its website with useful information on medicinal products for patients. In 2012, the AFMPS launched a campaign for the general public for the safe use of medicines, namely: "A drug is not a candy". AFMPS also controls advertisements to health professionals. The provision of premiums or benefits to doctors, pharmacists, dentists and institutions in which the prescriptions, administration or delivery of medicines take place is strictly regulated. However, I agree with your analysis: Belgians use too many medicines. In the context of the 2015 budget and the savings in the medicines sector, I proposed measures to reduce the consumption of medicines. In consultation with BAPCOC (het Belgisch Comité voor de Coördinatie van het Antibioticabeleid), I will take measures to reduce the amount of antibiotics. These measures will also help to manage the problem of multi-resistant bacteria. In fact, I expect in the coming days a BAPCOC action plan with a number of clearly defined objectives. We will develop new guidelines by working with the CEBAM (het Belgisch Centrum voor Evidence-Based Medicine) and I will examine, as foreseen in the government agreement, in consultation with my colleagues from the federated entities, the possibilities of controlling the abuse of drugs in institutions. Physicians will receive feedback from INAMI on their prescription profile and new indicators will be developed. The public needs to be made more aware of the problem of the abuse of medicines.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u54	Minister, thank you for this excellent answer. It contains a reminder of the legislation, good practice and control that is being exercised. I also hear the steps that will be taken in 2015 to reduce the consumption of drugs and the reminder of the campaign "A drug is not a candy". As part of your responsibilities, I finally expect that raising public awareness will be a priority in 2015. I share your opinion: advertising is misleading and too many properties are attributed to medicines, such as Viagra.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u55	Question No 163 by Mrs Fabienne Winckel is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u56	Madam Chair, Minister, Ichthyosis is a genetic skin disease that affects one in 300,000 individuals. Although there is currently no treatment available, it is possible for people with this disease to mitigate its visible effects by applying ointments several times a day throughout their lives. In addition, they are strongly advised to follow two thermal treatments a year, each lasting three weeks, which bring them a better well-being for a period of two to three months. The cost of the ointments as well as the cures necessary to relieve the symptoms of this disease is, of course, very high. Minister, I did not know this disease and if I speak to you, it is because I have been sensitized by relatives in the Mouscron area, including the five-year-old daughter, Rose, who has this disease. They were forced to set up an ASBL and organize various events in order to raise funds to finance the treatment of their child. That's why I had to run for six hours without stopping for 61 kilometers. As we know, compulsory health care insurance is not intended to recognize a particular disease but to guarantee access to care for all recipients in the event of acute or chronic illness, rare or not. The recognition and better management of chronic patients has attracted the attention of the previous government. An extensive programme entitled "Priority to the chronically ill!" has been in place since 2008. A specific working group on dermatological products was set up by the Consultative Committee on Chronic Diseases. Minister, when can we be informed of the findings of this work? Have any progress been made on intervention and reimbursement in this area or will it take place? In advance, I thank you, on behalf of the little Rose, for the answers you will give us.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u57	Madam President, Mr Senesael, our working group on dermatological products for chronic dermatological conditions submitted its report to the Insurance Committee in July 2013. This working group identified and analysed the cost and quality problems associated with local dermatological treatments of common use for the above-mentioned conditions: mastery or commercial preparations registered as medicinal products and dermatological products registered as cosmetics. With regard to master preparations, the problems identified are as follows. First of all, the complexity of the legislation, which is not always known to the prescribers or well understood; it is subject to interpretation. Then, problems with billing software used in public offices. There are differences between software, resulting in the rejection of the refund of certain normally repayable forms and vice versa. Secondly, qualitative problems with regard to the prescription of non-refundable products or the use of a commercial preparation as a basis. It may also be a lack of knowledge of the pharmacological, galenic or physiochemical properties of the products. Then, the master therapeutic form contains too little basis to prepare gels or pasta for oral use or for use in mucous membranes. A corticosteroid- and lidocaine-based formula is required for oral conditions. On the other hand, the corticosteroids included in the proposed formulas are too small. Those that contain too strong a corticosteroid are not reimbursed. A masterful formula for artificial saliva would be necessary, given the high cost of unreimbursed commercial preparations. Finally, the lack of quality control of master preparations. In the case of commercial preparations registered as medicinal products, the working group did not find any particular problem. For products registered as cosmetics, the use of some of them (shampoings, soaps, bath oils, foams) is often necessary for various dermatological conditions that evolve into chronic diseases. In the latter case, the use of this product is costly. It is in fact in question from 2 050 to 3 000 euros per year. No mandatory health care insurance is provided for this type of product. The Observatory's working group has proposed solutions to improve the quality of care and reduce the costs borne by patients for local dermatological treatments. He proposed: - the introduction of new formulations into the master therapeutic form; - changes in the conditions for reimbursement of master preparations by favouring the formulae of the form, reserving certain formulae to specialist doctors, simplifying and clarifying the legislation in this field; - the creation of a system for checking and validating invoicing software used by public agencies; - better training of doctors, including doctors specializing in dermatology, with regard to master preparations and information for prescribers; - the development of software to assist with the prescription of master preparations; - the registration of all reimbursable or non-reimbursable preparations in order to allow greater transparency on the consumption and use of products, to identify problems and thus to make it possible to take appropriate measures; - the creation of a system of quality control of master preparations; - a flat-rate intervention for products registered as cosmetics necessary for patients with a serious specific dermatological condition (oils, shampoos, soaps). This report has been forwarded to the relevant decision-making bodies, namely the Pharmaceutical Technical Council and the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products. Both bodies are currently reviewing the report and seeing the possibilities for implementation of the proposals. A draft package for dermatological products is almost finalized and could enter into force in 2015. As far as ichthyosis is concerned, there are alternatives to commercial creams and ointments. The masterful therapeutic formula contains moisturizing bases and formulas that present all the guarantees in terms of quality and safety, including the risk of allergy, which is not the case with commercial formulas of which part of the composition is always secret. Ichthyosis is indeed a rare disease but really difficult to treat. It is always possible for this disease to request assistance from the Special Solidarity Fund. The application file is composed by the attending physician, the pharmacist, the specialists. There are many possibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u58	It provides additional assistance in terms of reimbursement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u59	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u60	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. I'm novice in this commission. I will therefore reread the answer to see the technical progress, since we are still talking about July 2013 and we are still occupied by the analysis of the document. The length of time seems to me long, but it may be normal in this kind of practice. I would also like to thank you very much for taking into account the problem of the disease and for advising you to address the Special Solidarity Fund. I will not fail to relay the information to the family.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u61	Question No 204 by Mrs Catherine Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u62	Madam Minister, a while ago I learned that Commission President Juncker would have decided at European level to transfer the competence for medicines and medical technology from the Directorate-General for Health to the Directorate-General for Industry and the Internal Market. I am concerned about this and I will explain to you why. The Treaty of Europe explicitly mandates the European Commission to ensure the protection of public health. Policies must ensure that all European citizens receive high-quality, safe and effective treatment. Medicines and medical devices, as you know as well as I do, are not ordinary consumer products: they are not comparable to other goods in the European internal market. The task of the Commissioner for Industry and the Internal Market is to promote the competitiveness of industry and the European economy. This is a good thing in itself, but economic interests are at the forefront, not public health, as far as medicines and medical technology are concerned. My question to you is to raise this problem, to defend the interests of our people and to ensure that the competence for medicines and medical devices is maintained with the Commissioner for Health, where I think she is absolutely right. You regularly speak to other ministers at European level. I would very much like you to defend this position for the Belgian people. Will you do this? If you do this, can you give feedback very quickly, so that I am aware of the situation on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u63	Mrs Detiège, the Belgian delegation addressed a letter in Milan on 22 and 23 September 2014 in the framework of the informal Council of Health Ministers to defend exactly the position you set out. The letter was addressed to President Juncker of the Commission, but also to the Italian Minister for Health, who is currently chairing the Council of Ministers. This intervention, together with other interventions, including from the European Parliament and the European patient organisations, has resulted in Commission President Juncker returning at least in part to this decision in his statement to the European Parliament on 22 October 2014. In his statement, he said that medicines are not ordinary consumer goods like the others and that the final responsibility for this should remain with the Directorate-General for Health. However, the exercise of this competence should be carried out in cooperation with the Directorate-General for Industry. The decisions will therefore remain with the Directorate-General for Health, as it was originally. However, there must be cooperation and an exchange of information for implementation. As far as medical devices are concerned, we must wait until the European Commission provides more clarity. I agree with you that this area should remain the competence of the Directorate-General for Health. I will certainly continue to defend this position on the next Councils and continue to follow it closely. I think this is indeed important for the medical devices sector. It may be very important for a patient to be monitored within the framework of the Directorate-General for Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. I am very pleased with the information you are giving me today, because I was really concerned, given the impact on people and our health in Belgium. You say that this is practically decided on the medicines. When it comes to medical devices, there's still some waiting to be done. I hope that I will be able to get the necessary input on this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u65	This question concerns the individual nutritional advice reserved for dietists. Those people have spoken to me and have a number of concerns that I would like to express today. Dietist is a recognized paramedical profession with strict qualification requirements for its implementation. The acts and the list of technical services which the dietician can be taxed by a doctor were included in a 1997 Royal Decree. Anyone who carries out those acts without being recognized as a dietician is guilty of unlawful pursuit of the profession. However, it is noted that in recent years there has been an increasing number of nutrition consultants, health consultants or slimming consultants, which, although well-intentioned, do not provide scientific advice, sometimes with harmful to dangerous effects. That is what the VBVD, the Flemish Professional Association of Nutritionists and Dietists, said. They have also provided a number of examples. They say, for example, that we both know that an unnecessary life-time diet without gluten can lead to a shortage of vitamins and minerals. A long-term carbohydrate-free diet can impair brain function. A protein diet, today's hype, can cause lasting damage to people with heart, kidney and liver problems and can even be fatal in certain cases if they do not receive proper guidance. The removal of animal milk products can lead to very severe osteoporosis. According to the VBVD, general knowledge of health combined with nutrition would have deteriorated significantly in recent years. That evolution is absolutely not good. That is why I have a number of questions for you. First of all, given the signals I get from the sector, it might not be a bad thing to look with the professional association, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Work at what is right with those training courses of nutrition consultant. Do some things need to be corrected? Secondly, today's consultations on nutrition and dietary advice are not included in compulsory insurance. The supplementary health insurance only pays back a small part of it. Do you see any possibility of lowering that threshold? Given the debates in the past in the committee, we can focus on young people in a first phase. For them, it could mean a stamp for the rest of their lives. Young people who are obsessed at a very young age can develop diabetes at an older age and no longer get rid of it. It is essential that they are made aware from the start and that the public authorities play a role in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u66	Madam President, Mrs Detiège, the problem you are raising is a very real problem on the ground and not just about dietists. The National Council for the Paramedic Appeals discusses this issue very regularly. In addition to the good training organized by the competent authorities in the Community, there is indeed more and more shorter and faster training. In some cases, they respond to the needs of the labour market, but in others, these training courses are not acceptable or sound enough. Ensuring that the training of health professionals is tailored to the skills expected of them is as important as not allowing a health profession to be carried out by someone who has not received the appropriate training. In order to deal with these two issues, competence and training, I intend to sit down with my fellow Ministers of Education of the Communities in the coming months. This could, for example, be done within the framework of the existing Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health, and we can therefore invite the Ministers of Education to a working group on these issues. A person pursuing a health profession, such as dietician, without being recognised by the competent authority, may be prosecuted. Unfortunately, that's always after the facts. If one finds that a person is pursuing an illegal health profession, one must also report it to the government. In order to finance the consultation of a dietician and its reimbursement by health insurance, it is necessary first of all to know that this is already provided for certain pathologies. I am thinking of the diabetic patients, to whom two dietary recommendations per year, rightly, are fully reimbursed by health insurance, or of the substantial funding of the follow-up of cancer patients in order to avoid malnutrition in the oncology care programme. At present, the RIZIV grants in the compulsory insurance only fees for the consultations of holders of the special professional title of dietician recognised as such by the Public Health Office. In the current budgetary context, I cannot commit myself to extending reimbursement to other opinions by 2015. It should also be borne in mind that dietary learning is even more important before diseases occur, i.e. preventively. As you know, prevention falls within the competence of the Communities. The last time a federal health minister took initiatives in this area with the National Food and Health Plan for Belgium, there was quite a response from the Communities. They did not consider that acceptable. According to them, the federal minister was out of line with those measures. I will therefore not fail to discuss this with the Communities, so that they can also take the initiatives they wish to take. The government agreement also states that we must work with health objectives in the future. For example, if we know that 500 000 people suffer from type 2 diabetes, it seems obvious to me that, in line with the measures taken by the Communities and provinces, we are also entering health objectives. In this way we can achieve one care continuum, from the pre-phase to the follow-up of the disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u67	Madam Secretary, you have given a very clear answer. I am very pleased that you want to sit with the Minister of Education and possibly set up a working group to see how to improve the level of training. After all, you agree that they are often inadequate. As it will be one of the major health problems, it is good to work on it. As far as funding is concerned, there is a refund for certain pathologies, such as diabetes or cancer. However, that is still minimal. I quoted an example of a young patient I was really concerned with. We must invest in these young people. It is not even about prevention. After all, it is about children who eat bags of chips at home and drink a lot of coke, who sit in the couch and move far too little. They have a very bad lifestyle. There can be effective co-ordination with other levels, but one must effectively seek a solution and look at the state of nutrition at school and the reimbursement of diets. We need to be able to look beyond the conflict of competence so that we can find a solution to that situation and for those young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u68	Madam President, Minister, poliomyelitis is, as we know, a highly contagious disease caused by a virus that invades the nervous system and can have serious consequences for the development of children infected with it. Irreversible paralysis, legs in general, may occur in one in 200 cases. Between 5% and 10% of paralyzed patients die when their respiratory muscles stop functioning. According to WHO, polio cases have decreased by more than 99 per cent since 1988, from 350,000 to 1,604 reported cases in 2009. This decline is the result of the global effort to eradicate this disease. But as long as only one child remains infected, all children will be at risk of contracting the disease. In 2009-10, 23 countries were reinfected with polio due to the importation of the virus. In 2013, WHO stressed the vulnerability of many European countries to the resurgence of polio virus. Polio vaccination was introduced in Belgium in 1958 and made compulsory by Royal Decree of 26 October 1966. Since January 2001, the vaccine required for compulsory vaccination is the enhanced inactivated injectable vaccine. The complete qualitative composition and quantitative composition of the active ingredients of this vaccine are included in the accompanying package leaflet. In addition, article 8 of the 2002 Law on the Law of Patients also provides that "the patient has the right to freely consent to any intervention by the professional practitioner on the basis of prior information". At present, some still believe that there is a contradiction between these two laws, while the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 18 December 2013 makes it clear that "the patient's right to freely consent to any intervention by the professional practitioner, enshrined in the Act of August 2002, does not hold the vaccination obligation in check, which is based on considerations of protection of public health, which is part of public order." Minister, in our home, polio has not been detected since 1979. We can therefore say that in Belgium, as in other European countries, the disease seems to have been eradicated. Some of these countries have also removed this vaccine from the list of compulsory vaccines. Only Belgium and France are currently engaged in polio vaccination. Given the importance of the issue in terms of public health, an opinion was sought from the Higher Health Council (SHC) on whether or not to maintain this vaccine obligation. A collaboration was then initiated with the Advisory Committee of Bioethics of Belgium. The CSS and the Bioethics Committee had undertaken to provide their joint opinion by September 2013. Could this opinion have been delivered? What are its conclusions? Are changes in the practical modalities for reporting envisaged, given that there is no treatment for poliomyelitis and that the only way to combat poliomyelitis remains vaccination? Should any clarification be given to existing legislation despite the clear opinion given on this issue by the Court of Cassation?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u69	Madam President, Mr Frédéric, unfortunately, the opinions already announced by the Conseil Supérieur de la Santé and the Belgian Bioethics Committee by the end of 2013 have not yet been delivered, in particular because of the expiry of the terms of office of the latter Committee which have had to be renewed. However, these opinions are now scheduled for mid-2015. I will not fail to keep you informed of the progress of this matter. Unfortunately, there is a lot of delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u70	Minister, thank you for this rather concise answer. I think it had at least two elements. You are telling me that the requested opinion has not been delivered. There's nothing you can do about it except to demand it out loud. The subject is important enough for us to be extremely attentive to it. Compared to the legislation on the right of the patient, today some "conspiratory" people or groups consider that polio vaccine, like any vaccine, must not be made and that it must be opposed because it is simply the result of a great international conspiracy of the pharmaceutical lobby. Madam Minister, you do not have to decide today, but do you think that there is a need to amend the legislation in order to strengthen the opinion which has been given by the Court of Cassation and which some are contesting? They believe that the patient's right allows them to refuse the vaccine and do not wish their child to be vaccinated. Some people even resorted to the legislation on the abuse of weakness voted in 2012 to justify their refusal to immunize. It is therefore a public health problem. If everyone is allowed no longer to vaccinate according to legislation, this makes it difficult for the entire population. Madam Minister, we will come back to the matter because it deserves to be deepened rather than simply waiting for the commission's report.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u71	Mr Frédéric, as you know, in Belgium, polio vaccine is the only vaccine required by law. The law is the law. In the interests of the child, it is necessary to make this vaccine. Until now, that is the case. We are, however, waiting for the opinion, but until further notice, the law must be applied. There is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u72	Madam Minister, I thank you for this very important clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u73	There are issues related to cannabis as a drug and other issues related to the legalization or non-legalization of the recreational use of cannabis. Ms Jiroflée asked about both aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u74	Madam Secretary, there is great controversy about the use of cannabis, as you experienced a while ago following your interview in De Standaard itself. In that interview, you indicated that you wanted to see if a new policy for cannabis use should be put in place. You want to have an examination of whether a limited and regulated supply of cannabis can be achieved. Your proposals are therefore in line with a number of studies which have emerged in recent times. I'm thinking of the ideas of criminologists Brice De Ruyver and Cyrille Fijnaut. I am also thinking of a number of studies at home and abroad. Among other things, the British government has commissioned a study which states that a stricter drug policy would not reduce the use and possession of drugs. We now also notice that the VAD, the Association for Alcohol and other Drug Problems, is much more nuanced than it was a few years ago and joins the study. I agree with what you quite rightly said earlier, namely that a good policy is based on good scientific research. In this context, the research you are proposing is certainly appropriate. However, your coalition partner gave you considerable headwinds in this respect. From the health point of view, having a study carried out is apparently too far for some people. Reference was made to the only two sentences on drugs in the coalition agreement. We had no choice but to silence you: "The possession of drugs is forbidden." The use of drugs in public space cannot be the subject of a tolerance policy. By the way, these are the only two sentences in the government agreement on the subject, which, frankly, is rather thin for an important social problem. However, you did not mention blind legalization at any time. The opposite is true. I am therefore deeply concerned, Madam Minister, that you, who I believe is responsible for health, would not have the freedom to address a particular aspect of public health policy. I therefore come to my questions. Madam Secretary, what is your opinion on legalizing soft drugs? Madam Secretary, I have to ask the question, although I find it very annoying. However, who decides which matters may be investigated in the field of Public Health? Is that you or is that the mayor of Antwerp? Much more importantly, my last question. Will the government examine the current policy or will you accept the will of your coalition partner? Madam Secretary, is the research scientist you spoke of off the table or will you still instruct the experts on this matter? Madam President, if you will allow me, I will go straight to my second question. I won't repeat the introduction. This is about the use of cannabis as a medicine. Since 2003, patients in the Netherlands may receive a prescription for cannabis as a pain control agent. It is not the ordinary cannabis of the coffee shop, of course, but cannabis that is grown specifically because of its pain-killing qualities. The Agency for Medicinal Cannabis, a Dutch government organisation, is responsible for production and scientific purposes. In concrete terms, some people seem to benefit from cannabis treatment. These include pain and muscle cramps in MS, nausea, loss of appetite, weight loss and weakening in cancer and AIDS and chronic pain. A number of conditions are listed that could be successfully or variedly successfully treated with cannabis. Of course, many of these things have not yet been supported by large-scale scientific research, but the fact that there is something to it is quite weedy. We know that in this country too for a long time, because in July 2001 a KB appeared in the Belgian Official Journal stating that clinical trials could be carried out with medicinal cannabis. However, these tests must first be notified and approved. Only doctors attached to a university hospital or an approved pain clinic may carry out those tests. Medical cannabis is therefore not available in Belgium, except under very strict conditions and in selected hospitals. As a result, however, many Belgian patients often buy cannabis across the border. Often this happens with the knowledge of the treating physician. I believe that this is not an ideal situation, not for the individual who is legally on very slippery ground and certainly not for our society. I'll come to my questions. Do those two short sentences on drugs in the government agreement also mean that no further consideration should be given to regulating cannabis as medication? What is the Minister's position on this? Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u75	Madam Minister, I will not repeat the part of my introduction which was identical to that of Mr Jiroflée. Our time is limited. In any case, I admire your courage to put the medical use of cannabis on the table. I'm sure you're man enough to fight off this with your coalition partner, I'm sure. It is a fact that we are also in favour of improving the regularisation of medical cannabis because it has been shown to be a comfort treatment for certain patients, such as cancer and AIDS patients. This has already produced good results in other countries, especially in view of the pain-relieving effects. I shall confine myself immediately to the core of my questions. Madam Secretary, do you intend to regulate the medical use of cannabis better in Belgium? What initiatives will you take to get this on the agenda of the European Union? When exactly will the General Cell Drug Policy report on cannabis policy be ready? Will you hand over those numbers to us then?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u76	Madam Minister, I will not talk about the use of cannabis as a medicine, but about the situation that prevails both in our country and everywhere in comparable countries, namely, the extremely wide use of cannabis as a way of relaxing, as can be done through alcohol or other derivatives. This is a very difficult debate. We are in doubt as to how to approach this reality. We are faced with one observation: a large number of young and younger people are regular users of cannabis. We also know that prohibitionist policies do not work. On the contrary, they cause perverse effects, since in order to obtain cannabis, consumers must turn to potentially criminogenic environments. We also note that these largely prohibitive policies prevent us, in particular, from carrying out prevention campaigns, such as those carried out for smoking. On the other hand, we are thinking about how to move forward so as not to engage young and old non-consumers on the road to consumption. It's a difficult reflection. You addressed the problem and were right to do so. Obviously, you've been rebuked, since a party president of your coalition has committed you to keep quiet: "It's zero tolerance!" In view of the above, these are my questions. Minister, are you going to have the ability, the freedom, as Minister of Health, to study the problem and to continue thinking with experts, scientists, your administration? Will Parliament have the freedom to position itself on a development that I believe is necessary in cannabis policies? I mean, in fact, it's a problem that goes far beyond the majority/opposition divide. This has nothing to do with it. This is an ethical problem which certainly deserves that, apart from party positions, we have the capacity with this Parliament to ask ourselves the question of the necessary evolution and to take a decision that is not encircled by party diktats. In the course of the government negotiations, did you corseate the debate? Will your majority be prevented from working on this in parliament? Or will Parliament, the majority as opposed, be able to play its role as we have done in other extremely important ethical debates, for which our country is a model of openness and tolerance?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u77	Madam Minister, I found it interesting that two great criminologists, a Dutch-speaking Belgian and a Dutch professor, together publish a manifesto study to defend another, more balanced and more effective policy on cannabis. It is interesting and important in their study, in which they use policy, to see that their aim is to achieve a reduction in consumption, to provide more supervision and to control better, but to do so in a more intelligent way. They reveal that the Dutch system with coffee shops shows its limits, with a commercial system, where orders are greater than what is necessary for consumption. It is no longer a regulated place of consumption. They also note that Belgian legislation does not make it possible to raise awareness, to inform properly and, ultimately, to ensure that consumers have a quality product. It is also interesting to note that their findings and recommendations reflect the opinions given by associations and organisations working in the field of drug addiction - such as Infor-Druges - that there is a need to develop much more coherently policies that enable information, awareness-raising and prevention. According to them, our legislation does not allow for an effective preventive policy with minors since, given the way in which this legislation is formulated, it could be regarded as an incentive for consumption! All, including drug addicts, say that we must try to avoid the consumption of minors, even before the age of 25, because physical, psychological and social damage can be serious. These criminologists suggest closing coffee shops and setting up non-profit "cannabis clubs" which would be places subject to production control, as well as support for information, awareness and consumption. They insist that this policy is far from lax and that it will require more control than is provided for in the current legislation. Madam Minister, following this study, this manifesto and these reactions, you have expressed your willingness to open such a debate at Belgian and European level, considering that carrying out a policy that is too repressive will not make much sense. I can only join you in the need to be able to open the debate and dare to imagine a policy that will enable us to frame, prevent and ensure that the products consumed are of good quality. We heard from the president of the N-VA about your idea. How will you grasp the poles that are strained on you by the specialists who have expressed themselves? Are you going to hold this discussion within the Benelux and even within the European Council, so as to broaden the framework? The Belgian Parliament can also be a forum for discussion. I hope that parliamentarians will give themselves the freedom and permission to work on matters they consider important. Finally, I would like to dwell for a moment on a point that I did not address in my question, namely cannabis as a medicine. I have the opportunity to meet many people who are constantly suffering and who are forced to take powerful painkillers. According to them, cannabis taken in very small quantities is the only product that enables them to effectively manage pain. So working on this issue makes real sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u78	Madam President, thank you for the many questions. In reply to these questions, I can say the following. The coalition agreement is clear and I myself have always been against a cannabis tolerance policy. In this respect, this is entirely in line with the coalition agreement. As a doctor, I have always pointed out that cannabis has addictive properties and that there may be serious consequences for the use of cannabis. Nevertheless, it is correct to say that the debate on this should be possible, especially in our country and in Europe. After all, it is a problem that is present in our society, and it must not be ignored. Something else is of course the medical use of cannabis in a strictly regulated and evidence-based framework. I'll come to the clinical trials. In the database of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products, five trials can be found in two areas: pain relief at an advanced stage of cancer and neuropathic pain. The tests have all been carried out with the medicine Sativex. This was submitted to the FAGG for evaluation in the context of an application for authorisation. This evaluation in turn led to the identification of the following indication or disease. Sativex is indicated as treatment for relief of symptoms in adult patients with moderate to severe spasticity due to multiple sclerosis, only in patients who have not responded adequately to other anti-spastic medications and who have shown a clinically significant improvement in symptoms related to spasticity during a first trial period. Other published results of clinical trials, e.g. in the field of pain control, are reviewed by the Medicines Committee in the light of the study on possible indications areas for the use of medicinal cannabis. So far, they have not produced any new indications. I can also tell you that there are neither applications nor ongoing clinical trials at the moment. A proposal for a Royal Decree is currently under preparation so that medicinal products based on cannabis which have a marketing authorisation are no longer subject to the conditions laid down in the Royal Decree of 4 July 2001. This would allow the delivery of such medicines in a pharmacy in the future. At present, this would concern only one medicine, which has been affected by the clinical trials and has been assessed by the Committee on Medicinal Products as a working medicine, namely Sativex. However, the change of legislation will always have to take place in full consultation within the General Cell Drugs Policy and after proper information delivery to the relevant healthcare providers. Terminal cancer patients, patients with neuropathic pain and patients with transverse lesions wishing to treat their pain are not included in the target population of the so far only authorised medicinal product, Sativex, because the scientific evidence was not sufficiently demonstrated during the clinical trials. The Scientific Institute for Public Health is our national focal point in this matter. As is already happening, it will pass on as much information as possible to the European Union, in particular to the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. All Member States shall provide such information. The information has been obtained from hospitals and other important players in the treatment sector and is always in line with the privacy guidelines. Finally, this should lead to a clearer picture of all kinds of psychoactive substances. As part of my expertise and the meetings of the EPSCO Council, I will regularly ask for an analysis of this enormous flow of information, because I am convinced that such an examination can provide us with much clearer and more useful information in different areas of drug policy. With regard to the report of the General Cell Drugs, it is in its final drafting phase within the Cannabis working group. So it's not a report I ordered; it's a report that started over a year ago by the administration and whose finality will soon be known. This working group will provide a report to the General Drug Policy Unit, after which the latter will present the technical analysis to me. It goes without saying that I will provide feedback on this report and information to the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health and, of course, to the members of the Committee on Public Health. I will, of course, read and discuss the report of the experts in the administration. I haven't explained more or less. It is only logical that a scientific report should be looked at and the necessary conclusions drawn from it. I don't see very well what's wrong with that. I think it's a storm in a glass of water. We have said the same thing and both referred to the government agreement, both the mayor of Antwerp, as he is quoted here, and myself. We sat around the table together, by the way. The difference must be made between what is in the government agreement and the scientifically proven, regulated, evidence-based use of medicinal cannabis under limited, framed conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u79	Madam Secretary, I fully agree with the Minister. We all agree that the discussion about non-medical use is particularly difficult. In our society, that discussion will always reappear. Madam Minister, I am glad to hear that you are going further by examining the scientific reports. I am convinced that this matter will end up on our tables again in the future and we will be able to discuss it at a later stage. Now perhaps we should close the discussion until we can take note of that report.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u80	I can agree with that. I am pleased to hear that you keep evidence-based medical use of cannabis on the agenda. We shall be hearing more about this shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u81	Madam Chair, Minister, the opening of the Minister who is holding a completely different speech than Mr. De Wever rejoices. For the rest, important work is done by the Drugs Cell. However, Madam President, Parliament should look into the matter. I wonder if we should not think about a way of working (sub-committee, working group, etc.) which would allow us to have an in-depth reflection as is the case in other cenacles, particularly in other countries. I am also thinking of deliberate questions with great openness in the Council of Europe. In my view, Parliament should also seize this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u82	Madam Minister, I am glad that you are interested in continuing this debate and the various work carried out in the various places. As for the follow-up, the Minister will inform us of the receipt of the report from the Drugs Cell. I shall propose to the committee that we hold a debate so that we take the time to discuss this subject, without necessarily having to go through parliamentary questions. Before Toussaint's vacation, when we did not yet have a pace of work and we did not yet know the realities very well, I asked the different groups to share with me the priority topics. There were not two subjects the same and it went a little in all directions. We have then redistributed this to make you aware of it. In the course of the discussions, among other things on the policy note, political orientation, it seems to me that topics are emerging and could be proposed by the members of the committee. You know my interest in these questions. I am therefore in favour of working on this subject in committee. We will appeal to members to see if they maintain their priorities or wish to change them. Parliamentarians can agree to address several of the same issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u83	Madam President, it might be good to bring the report of the General Cell Drugs Policy directly to the Chamber as soon as we have it, otherwise we will have questions about it. It would be better to have a debate on this in committee. I would like to make the following point. I do not know what some people have read in the newspaper, but first of all I referred to the coalition agreement, which states that we are opposed to a policy of tolerance. We will abide by that. Secondly, I said that a doctor should point out the addictive nature and the bad consequences of using cannabis. Nevertheless, there is a report in the process and this report will be discussed here. The coalition agreement and the fact that we do not want a policy of tolerance do not prevent us from discussing a scientifically sound report. That doesn't stand in the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u84	The last word in parliament! Minister, you seem to me to be a little fearful. You say everything and its opposite. You say, "I defend the government agreement." But that does not prevent us from discussing a different policy! While Mr. De Wever said, "We don't talk about this, it's decided!" I urge you to consider, as you have said, that this is a very important social problem, which affects the safety and public health of our citizens, and that it is therefore a debate which must allow us, in a committee like ours, to open up to innovative solutions that really make it possible to be more effective on the ground. Current policies are totally ineffective. More and more of our young people are consuming. So we need to change our policy, and for that change, we need to think about it together. We must not be stopped in our reflections, we must be sclerosed, whatever the desires of each other who are hardly in this committee, nor in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u85	We're not going to do it again. I think you have information that I don't have. I haven't seen the cell report yet. You're already drawing conclusions. All I'm saying is that when the report from the Drugs Cell is here, we're going to make it available to the committee and we're going to have a debate. Nevertheless, the government agreement remains what it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u86	I suggest you tell us that Parliament also has a role to play, a place in the reflection and political orientations that can be taken. In the organization of our work, of course, there is the report of the Drugs Cell – there are others. I find, and that is why I strongly insisted on it, that the two criminologists of the study-manifest who explain that there is a failure in the policies carried out and that we should organize otherwise, are among the people we can hear, with whom we can discuss in this Parliament. I hope, ladies, that we can find partners to dare the debate. And then we'll see what we can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u87	The minister said that some may have had the report before others. Certainly not. For a long time now, we have had reports on the subject and regular health surveys have shown the extent of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u88	Question No 355 by Mrs Catherine Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u89	Question No 355 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u90	Madam Secretary, 1 in 20 Belgians have diabetes. Every diabetes patient costs our society thousands of euros a year. The WHO is pressing for a national diabetes plan to be drawn up. However, we are still a long way from that. In your answers to previous questions, you have already referred to your desire to establish a continuum. That sounds very good, but our country is only in the fourteenth place, so in the middle, in terms of the quality of the treatment of this condition. A first step to improve this is the development of a national diabetes register. Measuring is knowing. This question is explicitly endorsed by the Diabetes League. It is estimated that there are 650 000 diabetics, but there are probably 400 000 cases on top of that. The exact amount of diabetics in our country is therefore not known, because there is no specific registration of type 2 diabetes. Denmark and Sweden, among others, keep an accurate list. Diabetes type 1 is, by the way, accurately recorded in our country. I come to my questions. Are you planning supportive measures to improve the existing registration of type 2 diabetes and associated complications? If so, which ones, and when do you plan them? If not, do you intend to take other steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u91	Minister, the 2014-2016 international and European diabetes campaign will focus on "A healthy life and diabetes". It's interesting and it's worth using. It must be noted that in Belgium a whole series of measures are being taken and policies are being carried out at different levels of power. Despite this, the number of people developing type II diabetes is increasing. Our policies are therefore not effective, perhaps because of the fragmentation of competences and insufficient coordination between the actors. If I take the example of this famous National Nutrition and Health Plan that has existed for a long time, we should all be involved in achieving a common goal, each one acting in its own skills. It must be noted that, in fact, the measures are not properly implemented. Minister, do you intend to take advantage of this "healthy life" campaign to relaunch an approach involving the federal level, the Communities, the municipalities, health actors and patient associations to achieve an effective policy, knowing that the side effects of this disease are greatly aggravated by the lack of early detection? An estimated 10 per cent of the health care budget is due to ill-treated diabetes. Finally, data collection also does not appear to be sufficiently effective across the country. It is therefore difficult to have an overall view of the situation. At European level and at the UN level, WHO, States are called upon to develop national "diabetes" plans. Plans can be made, but above all they must be put into practice. What is your position on this matter? Furthermore, will associations of diabetic patients be involved and supported in the role they can play?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u92	Dear colleagues, a comprehensive plan for better management of chronic patients is being prepared in the wake of EU initiatives. A national conference was held in November 2013. Since then, a wide-ranging consultation has taken place with the various actors involved: regional and Community authorities, healthcare providers, patient associations and insurers. The plan's ambition goes beyond the health care sector to address prevention, education and reintegration issues as well. In the first half of 2015, proposals will be submitted to the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health, with a view to harmonizing initiatives at all levels of government. The diabetes strategy is part of the overall framework of chronic care organization. The inter-administrative unit established by the Inter-ministerial Conference on Public Health will be responsible for developing the most appropriate approach for patients with diabetes, within the overall framework of chronic care. The information currently available on the number of patients with diabetes in Belgium is derived from a variety of databases: mainly the use of specific medicines such as antibiotics, oral antidiabetic drugs and insulin, as well as the care provided to patients in the "diabetes" treatment route or in the diabetes reference centre. In the context of the healthcare pathways diabetes and chronic renal failure, a data collection was successfully carried out by the general practitioners in 2011. Full data were obtained for three quarters of patients in care despite a number of technical problems with the transmission of the data. That really is proof that general practitioners are also willing to participate in the data registration. We are currently preparing a medicomut agreement. In this context, there has already been talk of a possible deepening of the type 2 care path of diabetes in order to recognise and guide it from the start of the diagnosis. Transferring clinical data to a national register is an essential part of the project and will allow us to better understand the number of people affected by diabetes and in which age groups they are found. It will also provide more information, because we are actually rolling out the so-called preprograms from the diagnosis. They mean that the diagnosis can be made, without the diseases or complications linked to diabetes already occurring. That proposal is currently on the table. We talked about this yesterday and today. A lot of people are in favour of it. I hope that we will be able to deepen this in the context of the Medicomut agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u93	Madam Minister, we are very pleased that such a collection of data and the early treatment of diabetes is being carried out. That is also a priority for the Diabetes League, of which I am a member as a diabetes educator. We are pleased that this is being followed up. We would like to call for these actors to be involved in this dialogue. The Diabetes League, for example, is not represented. One final point of interest I would like to give is the pain of registration. I assume this will also emerge in the working group. The systems for registering diabetes are often not compatible with the software at the GPs. In order to be able to collect everything in a single database, it is important that they can easily register through their existing systems; hence my call to take that into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u94	Madam Minister, I am pleased to hear you put yourself in the process of drawing up a plan within the European framework as well as within the national framework. Therefore, the next Interministerial Conference in the first quarter of 2015 will be devoted to this. The collection of data, in particular those relating to medicinal products, does not mention the difference between type I and type II diabetics. However, the policies to be pursued obviously depend on this difference between patients. It is also important that the latter be integrated as actors in the momentum that is about to take place. They too can help us to better communicate information, raise awareness and prevent it. With regard to journeys of care, evaluations indicate that they are partially functioning, but that eventually patients are excluded and that they need to be reoriented in their way of doing things. The role of the general practitioner really needs to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u95	Question No 454 by Mr Penris is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u96	Madam Secretary, diabetes and high blood pressure are both important cardiovascular risk factors. In both cases there is an interaction between genetic predisposition and lifestyle, as was extensively documented in the literature. For both conditions there are meaningful interventions, which are evidence-based. However, I have to say that the medicines used to treat these diseases are treated by health insurance in a completely different way. All new antidiabetic medicinal products end up in category A, which means that they will be fully reimbursed as vital medication, while all medicines for high blood pressure, hypertension or heart failure are in category B and are considered to be therapeutically important medicinal products, yet require the imposition of the patient. The reason for this difference in treatment is not entirely clear to me and many of my colleagues. It may even be illogical, especially since the added value of the new specialties for the treatment of diabetes is rather moderate, while the treatment of heart failure and hypertension in many cases reduces mortality, as shown by rather spectacular studies. I have the following questions. How does the RIZIV determine the reimbursement category of a proprietary medicinal product? Does it seem worth considering linking the reimbursement category to parameters other than the pharmaceutical class of the speciality concerned? If so, do you think it is appropriate that the therapeutic added value is one of those parameters? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u97	Colleague, the decision on whether or not to include in the refund includes a decision on the basis of remuneration, the conditions of remuneration, the category of remuneration and the reimbursement group, and is always based on a proposal from the Committee on Medicinal Products. The history of the reimbursement categories has been developed for the following purposes: category A includes the essential specialities, category B the therapeutically important proprietary medicinal products, categories C, Cs and Cx include the medicinal products intended for symptomatic treatments or comfort medicines, category D the non-refundable medicinal products and category F the medicinal products with a reimbursement basis consisting of a fixed amount. Any difference between the price applied and the reimbursement basis cannot be charged to the patient. The CTG makes its proposal for reimbursement each time and therefore proposes a reimbursement category after evaluation of the following five criteria. First of all, the therapeutic value. Secondly, the price of the speciality and the reimbursement basis proposed by the applicant. Thirdly, the importance of the speciality in medical practice on the basis of therapeutic and social needs, including the relevance of the adequacy of the size of the packaging for the purpose of the intended therapy. Fourthly, the budgetary impact on health insurance. Fifthly, the relationship between the cost of health insurance and the therapeutic value. The therapeutic value is therefore one of the five criteria and is also taken into account in the latter criterion, on which the CTG proposal and the decision on the reimbursement of a proprietary medicinal product are based. I think that the difference you are looking for between blood pressure lowering and antidiabetics should be in one of the other groups, which are taken into account for determining the category.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u98	Thank you for the explanation, Madam Secretary. I share your practical experience and critical-scientific mind. Hopefully that will enable us to make the right budgetary choices in these difficult times.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u99	Question No 523 by Mr Franky Demon is postponed. As far as question No 553 is concerned, I must see with Mrs Renate Hufkens whether it is postponed or transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u100	Madam President, Madam Minister, your predecessor, Mrs Onkelinx, announced in the previous legislature that from 2014 she would introduce the general number 1733 for the medical watch. This would, of course, be gradual. Today we see that this was not realistic in terms of time. N-VA shares the concerns of the Flemish general practitioners and, together with them, advocates proper preparation. You have already confirmed this in the press. It is very important to go for well-trained staff and a clear legislative framework. I believe that you have rightly stated that you are moving the timing of the introduction to 2016. I would have liked to have had some more explanation of the concrete steps you are going to take to make this happen. Pilot projects have been under way for several years. Could you please give us an update on that? How are these projects evaluated? How will you ensure, of course in consultation with your Home Secretary, that the staff are well prepared and trained for their duties? In what way do you involve the general practitioners? They too have expressed their concern. In what way will the introduction take place? Will you, as originally announced, allow this introduction to be carried out on a regular basis? What steps will you take to achieve 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u101	Thank you, Mrs Van Peel, for your question. The introduction of the call number 1733 is in stages. In the first phase, the telephone numbers of the GPs are programmed within the telephone robot of the project. Programming is based on the zip code. When the patient enters his zip code, the call is automatically forwarded to the telephone number of the relevant waiting part. Indeed, this programming calls for consultation with the general practitioners, since for certain postal codes several waiting parts intervene and it is therefore necessary to determine which call should be derived from where. There are organisational and technical solutions to this problem, but the necessary coordination is foreseen. The roll-out of phase 1 was prepared in West Flanders throughout the province. Once the roll-out has been sufficiently tested, the other provinces can follow fairly quickly. In West Flanders a number of things will become clear which can then be taken to the other provinces. In a second phase, calls are no longer answered by the telephone robot, but by an appointed within the aid centre 112. For this task, it has a specific manual with search protocols, to be compared with calls to the 100 number. The generic search protocols are validated by the scientific associations for general medicine, e.g. Domus Medica and the Société Scientifique de Médecine Générale. Provincially these protocols are introduced in consultation with the general practitioners and personalised for the reality of the terrain within the province. This creates local management protocols. The staff members are trained for this interview by the medical directors present in the emergency centres 112. For the second phase, we must have sufficient people at our disposal. People always talk about men, but there are also many women. There must also be suitable workplaces within the auxiliary power stations. We are working on these two aspects, in consultation with my fellow Members from the Interior. Today, the second phase is already active in the region around Bruges, throughout the province of Luxembourg, and in a large part of the province of Hainaut. A first circle has also been started recently in the province of Namur. A first circle will soon start in the province of Liège. A fully adapted regulatory framework will be made available at the final stage. This does not mean that we are working outside the law today. The last health law of the previous legislature has created a framework for this. Now it is a question of writing the most appropriate implementing decisions. In order to do this in an optimal way, we need to take note of the feedback and the lessons the pilot projects give us during the roll-out. An inventory is now being made of that. Consultation platforms are provided at all levels in order to optimally steer the deployment of the project. For example, a project coordinator was designated per language area. These coordinators are the point of contact for the general practitioners. Regardless of the stage in which the project is located in each region, they will answer the questions and comments of the circles. Once the second phase of the project starts, a local project group will also start. This local project group follows up, evaluates and guides where necessary. Finally, there is a federal steering committee, which takes care of the day-to-day management of the whole project. There is also the guidance committee, within which the steering committee reports. General practitioners are represented at all the levels mentioned. I would also like to stress that the general practitioners were never obliged to join in a phase or a whole. A number of circles, for example, wish to wait to step in until the third stage is completed. They believe that they now have a system that works well through the central call number. So they don't want to get in the car right now. They will board, once the whole system is implemented, which will not be so difficult. After all, they are already organised and already have a central call number. This is also the case with us. So that's not gonna be the big problem. The problem is that we now have to start working in regions where there was little coordination of guard services. However, I am confident that the system will be properly rolled out. However, we also need to know what we are doing. The system must be safe. Waiting services will also continue at night and at weekends. They will also continue in panic situations. After all, there are a lot of people calling the 100, but they don't know what number it is, just because they're panicking. For example, they do not mention the house number or indicate whether the patient is unconscious or not. A call always happens in panic. That is what we have to take into account. However, I am confident that the system will come about.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u102	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. You're holding the right line on this point. It's an important project. If it ever comes into the final phase... it looks like the project is well on its way to that final phase.......................................................................................................................................................................................... However, we would prefer not to start too early. It is better for it to be properly activated than for accidents to happen, as you say, because we want to reach a deadline. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to be absent for two minutes. Then I'll be back for about 20 minutes because I have to leave at 6:30. May I ask Mrs Van Peel to take the Chair? This time I choose Mrs Van Peel rather than Mrs Van Camp, who is Vice-President, so that she can ask her questions. Next time, Mrs. Van Camp will replace me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u104	Madam President, Minister, a year ago, your predecessor, Ms.Onkelinx, presented the National AIDS Action Plan 2013-2018. This project, which was, at last, multi-annual, transversal and involved all levels of power in this country, namely the Communities, the Regions and the Federal State, was expected by many associations active in the fight against this epidemic and the support of HIV-positive people. It wanted to implement 58 priority actions. Unfortunately, none of them have yet been finalized. The philosophy of the plan, which had been the subject of consultation with hundreds of citizens, as well as volunteers and professionals active in the sector concerned, was that in the area of prevention and screening, it was a matter of focusing efforts on and putting a name on groups at risk, without rejecting again and again men who had sex with other men (the category of HSH) and migrants who had already been victims of prejudice and discrimination. On November 21, 2013, the figures for HIV infection were released by the Scientific Institute of Public Health. They report 1,115 new positive diagnoses in Belgium, i.e. an average of three new cases per day. Fifty-one percent belong to the very polymorphic category – I don't know what that means – of HSH. While the total of new detections has fallen by 9% compared to 2012 – this is good news – the decline appears to be due to the decrease in new diagnoses among people from sub-Saharan Africa (less than 24% compared to 2012). This would therefore be a statistical effect, not a real decrease in the epidemic. Interviewed by Belga, the Institute of Public Health and the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp put forward a political and statistical explanation for this dramatic decline. I quote them: "This does not mean that fewer Africans are infected with the AIDS virus, but that fewer people of African origin are returning to Belgian territory and those who are already there are sometimes afraid of being detected fearing, possibly, a forced return or refusal of care in case of a positive diagnosis". Minister, are you considering the implementation of the 2013-2018 AIDS Plan as it stands? If so, what are the priority actions you would like to focus on at the beginning of your term of office? If you want to change your tactics, how do you envisage the fight against AIDS? We are just a few days away from World AIDS Day. Taking into account the figures provided by the Institute of Public Health regarding the evolution of the epidemic, it is still clear that the two populations to be targeted are still migrants and HSH. What legislative initiatives are you considering in order to allow for the generalization of de-medicalized and decentralized screening, which was one of the priority measures outlined in the plan. This technique is particularly effective with these two target audiences, as can be seen in neighbouring countries? I am thinking in particular of France. What initiatives are you planning to take with your colleague in charge of Asylum and Migration in order to offer people of African origin the opportunity to be tested more effectively? How, in concrete terms, do you envisage combating the fear of these people of being forced to return in case of a positive diagnosis? It is known that it is one of the major difficulties in being able to contain the epidemic among migrant audiences.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u105	Madam President, Mr Hellings, the HIV Plan 2014-2019 was the subject of a memorandum of understanding between the federal authority and the federated entities, which was published in the Belgian Monitor on 21 November 2013. It is therefore essential that the possible implementation of the actions of this plan be carried out in consultation with the federated entities. Prevention and testing, which are an important part of the plan, fall within the competence of the federal authorities. These consultations are reinvigorated in the short term within the framework of the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health. In addition, the Interdepartmental Conference also called for the development and implementation of a comprehensive plan for the care of chronic patients. In order to avoid fragmentation and duplication of efforts and resources, the implementation of the HIV plan should be integrated into this more comprehensive approach. Such synergies should not, however, call into question the priorities identified in the HIV plan, particularly in terms of priority target groups. As for your last question, it falls entirely within the competence of my colleague at Asylum and Migration. But as I have held these positions, I can tell you that for every arrival, a TBC test is conducted at the Foreign Office, followed by a medical examination performed in the centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u106	All of them are under review. If they agree, we'll take a blood sample. There's no longer any doubt. We are also very attentive to the risk of Ebola in our centres. As soon as they enter the centre, a doctor will give them a medical examination. For further details, I invite you to address Mr Franken.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u107	Madam Minister, thank you. You've been in charge of the Asylum and Migration. One of the findings of the Institute of Public Health is that your migration policy, which has been more repressive, has had an unexpected impact on the screening of people of sub-Saharan origin. They are afraid of being tested, for fear that a positive result would be a reason for them to be excluded. It's a new thing. AIDS figures are therefore not falling for reasons of functioning of a public health plan, but for statistical reasons. As far as the implementation of the plan is concerned, I understand that you are waiting for the Communities and the Regions to move forward because it is clear that we can only move forward together. This is also the observation made by the plan. Nevertheless, the demedicalization of tests, for example, that is to say, the carrying out of a test without the use of a doctor, requires a legislative amendment. This change may come from you, in the implementation of the AIDS plan, which was planned. Or we're going to have to take on our responsibilities as parliamentarians and table a bill. The federal government can act in the demedicalization of this law but also by taking charge of these tests by INAMI. It is important that INAMI can financially support these decentralized tests. You mentioned Ebola. I congratulate the government for appointing a "Madame Ebola". There is also a need for "AIDS madam" or "AIDS monsieur", as provided for in the AIDS plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u108	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u109	If there's an "Ebola madam," we'll need an "AIDS madam." It is your responsibility. I really urge you to name it as soon as possible, because this AIDS plan must be implemented very quickly in view of the serious epidemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u110	Madam Minister, at the Flemish level, work is being carried out on the switch from the CATZ to the BelRAI scale in order to achieve better and more objective patient care. We can only welcome this change, since the subjectivity of the CATZ scale often leads to a discord between the assessment of, on the one hand, the home nurse and, on the other hand, the RIZIV inspector. In the future, this difference of assessment will persist if the period between the nurse's evaluation and the auditor's evaluation is too wide, as is the case today. Firstly, what initiatives do you intend to take to ensure that the home nurse's assessment of the patient's care gravity is carried out in a more objective manner, with particular reference to the time frame between the two assessments? Secondly, do you systematically keep records of the checks in a way that makes it possible to detect outliers, for example inspectors whose judgement is far more different from that of nurses than average or inspectors whose judgment is more frequent than the average?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u111	(...) of the CATZ scale in the home care system at two levels, on the one hand by the counsellors, on the other hand by the nurses-inspectors of the sickness funds and by the medical evaluation and control department of the RIZIV. The sickness funds are more frequent in checking, more focused only on the CATZ scale, and relatively shortly after the provision of benefits in kind. The examination of the Medical Evaluation and Control Service is less frequent and often covers more aspects of the RIZIV legislation, which also means that there is a longer period between the attestation of the benefits in question and their verification. The checks shall be carried out on the basis of directives drawn up within the agreement committee on Nursing and Insurance Institutions, including representatives of the Medical Evaluation and Control Service. Those guidelines apply to all concerned and are available through the RIZIV website. With regard to the initiatives to make the monitoring more objective, I would refer to some of the actions that have been developed in the Committee on Nursing and Insurance Institutions. In 2013, that committee developed new guidelines, whereby the nurses could fill in more detailed scores on that CATZ scale. Those new guidelines were extensively tested in the course of 2013-2014 by home nurses and health insurance inspectors. The results of these tests show that those directives do not lead to more agreement between home nurses and the controlling nurses, which was the objective. The Agreement Committee is now examining other ways of increasing that agreement, such as joint training activities. The results of those tests also showed that the more detailed minimum content of the nursing file, a measure since 2012, has been a good basis for many home nurses to better underpin the completed scores of the CATZ scale. The usefulness of a well completed file became so visible, not only for the patient's follow-up and the communication between caregivers, but also for the purpose of providing objective clarifications on control. On 1 July 2014, the regulation on the Katz scale in the home care sector was amended and the agreement committee made agreements on this occasion which should lead to more interaction between health insurance funds and home nurses. For example, if, after checking, the sickness fund considers that the patient's care dependence is lower than that indicated by the nurse, the sickness fund will endeavour to notify the nurse of that lower score within 10 working days of the check. The recovery of amounts allegedly wrongly paid is therefore postponed for 10 working days, giving the nurse the opportunity to send evidence to support his scores on the evaluation scale to the sickness fund. The sickness fund will then examine that file and give the final decision to the nurse. In order not to put people in trouble, they are now given the opportunity to provide additional evidence. Following that decision, the usual appeal procedures in the labour court are still possible. We used to have to go straight to the labour court, now we have to postpone and we can deliver more items. This procedure will also be evaluated as more validated data become available. It is relatively new and we do not yet know what it will yield. I propose that we allow this project to run from six months to one year. I follow these initiatives of the Agreement Committee and look forward to their evaluation. The RIZIV does not keep statistics of the scores provided by individual auditors. Extreme personal opinions are tempered by the fact that the guidelines are the same for all concerned and that the final decision is often taken in group or under the supervision of a third party, such as the counseling physician. Between the counsellors of the various insurance institutions, there is also regular formal consultation in the National College of Advisors of the RIZIV. There is also consultation within the Medical Evaluation and Control Service between the nurses about their findings and there is a system of supervision.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u112	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. These measures do indeed sound very good, especially with regard to joint training and the continued promotion of these joint directives. After all, there is often still a problem of interpretation. We will follow up this dossier and see if there is any improvement after those six to twelve months.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u113	Madam President, Madam Minister, the recent conversion letters to hospitals make respect for a number of interoperability standards developed within the eHealth platform and the effective sharing of data through these standards a prerequisite for further basic financing of hospitals on ICT. My party is explicitly in favour of the development of e-Health. However, I have a few questions about this letter. Firstly, prior consultations were held with the ICT companies and hospitals in order to monitor and safeguard competition in the sector when setting standards? Secondly, which actors were involved in the drafting of the debrief?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u114	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, all the standards referred to in the aforementioned letter were developed by the eHealth platform, in close consultation with hospitals. Specifically, web services and messages exchanged are defined according to international standards such as XML. All web services and message formats can be consulted publicly on the eHealth website and also based on international standards. In addition, there is a systematic follow-up within the management committee of the eHealth platform, with a representation of the sector, in this case Agoria. The principles in the letter are the result of the work and discussions in the context of two action points in the eHealth Action Plan. This plan is the result of a broad consultation with all actors in the field and was approved by the Inter-Ministerial Conference on 29 April 2013. The second action line of this plan is to develop an electronic patient file for all hospitals and the ninth action line is to adapt the funding as an incentive for the use of eHealth. In the context of the second action line, the main objectives for the electronic patient file were defined and ranked according to three priority levels. This document is also available on the website of the FPS Public Health. The measure was drawn up in cooperation with, among other things, representatives of hospitals. The adjustment of the funding has been the subject of a special working group within the framework of the National Council for Hospital Services, comprising representatives of the hospital sector, directors, doctors, nurses and sickness funds. The group's opinion was then submitted to the financing section and the consultative bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u115	Madam Minister, we want to make sure that no one in the ICT sector is involved in the starting working groups. We therefore ask you to take a critical look at this and, where possible, find solutions for certain people who have a double hat in the two organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u116	Madam Minister, in your policy paper we read that evidence-based practice, EBP, will be a key concept in your policy. Our party fully supports this principle, whereby only treatments whose effect has been scientifically demonstrated are repaid. In Health Technology Assessment, however, it is not only the EBP data that is important, but also the associated cost-effectiveness ceiling is crucial. A treatment whose effect has been scientifically proven can be positioned on two axes: the delta cost and the delta won quality years of life, the so-called QALYs. An extremely expensive treatment that produces a limited QALY profit can also be scientifically proven and thus meet the EBP requirement. You say you will repay treatments whose effectiveness has been proven. Does that mean that you will repay any treatment that has been proven to be purely effective? If you will take into account the relationship between high-quality years of life gained and increased costs, which incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) will you be leading the way in the future evaluation of new treatments, taking into account your budget for the coming years? If you will not take into account the ratios mentioned in ICER, what measure will you use to pay back or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u117	Mrs Van Camp, when I refer to evidence-based medicine in the coalition agreement or in my general policy paper, I mean the recommendations for good practice, including in the fields of medical regulations, imaging and clinical biology. The RIZIV has already made and will continue to do a great deal of work in this area. I am thinking, for example, of the brochure on the rational prescription of medical imaging through the creation of the Belgium Medical Imaging Platform, the brochure on clinical biology tests, the creation of the EMPracticeNET website, which can promote recommendations, and the feedback sent to doctors. When we talk today about using Health Technology Assessment, it is really about choosing the most appropriate investment. This also means that investment in new technologies will be dependent on whether they actually improve compared to existing technology. Is the imaging finer? Does she allow for a more precise diagnosis or differential diagnosis? Those are the questions with every new technology. In your question you mention the economic opportunity to treat someone on the basis of the so-called QALYS or Quality-adjusted Life Years and the costs per year won. In theory this can be done, but it cannot be applied as such by technicians. These are ethical choices, which are part of a social debate. The King Baudouin Foundation, together with the RIZIV and the Knowledge Centre, organised a kind of civil consultation, in order to establish criteria to better take into account social preferences. The results of these consultations are expected by February 2015. The Knowledge Centre will also shortly complete a study on the same subject based on a large survey of stakeholders and citizens. The question is, firstly, how many years the population will live longer and, secondly, what the cost is. The answers to both questions need to be weighed against each other. However, this is an ethical discussion. In some cases, we are prepared to invest. Think of the kidney dialysis, which is a very expensive treatment, to be able to live longer. In other cases, less expensive decisions can also prolong life. I would add that cost-effectiveness has already been incorporated into a number of decision-making processes on reimbursement, for example in the context of the opinions of the Committee on Implants and Invasive Medical Devices and the Committee on Medicinal Products. With my administration, I would also like to explore how the advisory, consultation and decision-making bodies can integrate criteria such as evidence-based and, of course, cost-effectiveness even more systematically into their operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u118	Madam President, Madam Minister, I do not entirely agree with the statement that an ICER exists only on paper. In the United States, however, a very concrete figure is being put up and used. This helps to control budgets and justify decisions to the people. However, we do believe that it is possible, without really putting a specific figure on it, to show the necessary transparency, to be consistent in this matter and to translate it into the citizens or to explain it to them. We have every confidence in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u119	Madam Secretary, in the new policy on the treatment of CVS patients, diagnostic centres refer certain patients to cognitive behavioral therapists. These therapists should be previously recognised by the RIZIV according to agreements launched on 1 September 2014. All the information is on the website of the RIZIV, but one must first get recognition from the RIZIV. As a result, the patient can receive a maximum of 17 individual sessions. Other existing therapies with sometimes training up to four or five years, e.g. system therapy or family therapy, are not recognised by the RIZIV and cannot be reimbursed in the context of the treatment of, for example, CVS. From a medical and scientific point of view, cognitive behavioral therapy remains a preferential treatment, as there is currently no evidence that other therapies or currents are as good or possibly better. However, there are few possibilities to compare therapies. Both for the patient and for the government it is important to look at the most outcome-based treatment, not just the evidence-based treatment, to get the treatment repaid, with a view to what has the most effect. This is time-saving for the patient and cost-saving for the government. For example, it appears that three to four sessions of the solution-oriented cognitive system theory are sufficient. Recent American research by Barry Duncan shows that only a limited part is determined by the therapy itself and that many other factors play a role in the success of the treatment. Fifteen percent of the success of a treatment has to do with the therapy or methodology used, 40% with patient characteristics and 30% with the relationship between the doctor or therapist and the patient. A limited pilot project could be initiated for CVS patients treated with another non-cognitive behavior therapy. This may produce interesting results. I'm not saying it will be, it can be. Today, only cognitive behavioral therapies are recognised by the RIZIV and it is important to check that the other therapies produce sufficient results. Are you prepared to launch a pilot project in which CVS patients are referred to, for example, cognitive system therapists instead of just behavioral therapists, so that a comparison can be made in terms of results, efficiency and treatment? In this way, policy choices can be made afterwards. When will cognitive behavioural therapists evaluate the functioning of the diagnostic centres and the effectiveness of treatment on an individual basis? That is what is in the coalition agreement. On the basis of the results of the evaluation, can the RIZIV agreements be extended or replaced by other forms of therapy, for example?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u120	Mrs Lanjri, the compulsory health insurance budget cannot be used to carry out pilot projects to determine whether or not a particular treatment works for a particular condition. It is necessary that sufficient scientific research has already been carried out in advance. For cognitive behavioral therapy as treatment of CVS, this is the case. The beneficial effect of this treatment on CVS has been repeatedly demonstrated in high-level scientific studies in which large numbers of CVS patients have been treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. This is reflected in reports and recommendations of the Federal Health Knowledge Centre, such as the report 88A, and similar international bodies, such as the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence and the Central Guidance Body NE 2013. It is therefore justified that this specific treatment form should also be reimbursed. The same applies to graduated practice therapy. The treatment you apply, solution-focused cognitive system therapy, is not recommended by the aforementioned bodies as treatment for CVS. This applies, however, to the other two therapies mentioned. I conclude from this that there is little specific research on the treatment of CVS with solution-oriented cognitive system therapy. However, according to evidence-based standards, treatment should have been tested in a large number of patients as part of a randomised and controlled experiment. So two groups cannot be compared. Evidence-based is proven by double-bind, randomised study in a large group, in which a part is treated with placebo and another part with therapy. Then you measure whether there is an evidence-based effect. You also argue that the chances of success of psychotherapeutic treatments are largely determined by other characteristics specific to the patient and possibly by the relationship between patient and therapist. That's right. The CVS agreement drawn up by the RIZIV takes this into account. For example, there is a specific task for the specialised centres to find a therapist for the patient with whom he can reach a full agreement. So it has to click between the patient and the therapist, otherwise you'll never get anywhere. This is also necessary because a certain relationship of trust needs to be built up. Of course, one cannot always determine from the first day whether it clicks. It is therefore foreseen that the patient can change therapist without losing rewardable sessions. The findings you're referring to are what they are. However, they cannot be free-conducted to allow any treatment. Taking into account the above, there are currently insufficient elements and arguments to develop a further pilot project under the mandatory health insurance scheme which also provides solution-oriented cognitive system therapy or other insufficiently validated therapies. The new CVS agreement is currently under discussion. The continuation of this agreement will need to be clarified in a few weeks' time. If it continues, it is planned that its implementation will be subject to a thorough and final evaluation. The same applies to the part of cognitive behavioral therapy. At the moment, my policy cell and the RIZIV are actually looking at the CVS issue with open eyes. However, this does not mean that if the agreement were to be terminated, the budget for this agreement could be used to repay other treatments if their effect was not yet sufficiently demonstrated, or that it could be spent on activities that are actually more appropriate in scientific research. It is therefore an important moment when we need to evaluate the previous CVS treatments. We need to see which treatments we continue with, which results and which do not. Maybe we should change our minds. However, one thing is certain: if anything else is considered, it must be a method that has proven evidence-based its effectiveness. It is not up to us to investigate this further with pilot projects. It must first be scientifically proven, otherwise we cannot do anything with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u121	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I understand that you say that such pilot projects cannot be set up within the RIZIV funds. There are probably other ways of doing this. You say the result must be scientifically proven. I've got an ear for that, but I'd like to put on a nuance. I also believe that the results of therapies should be scientifically demonstrated. However, it is important to test the other therapies in one way or another, so that they get a chance. The results of the tests will indicate whether or not these therapies are effective. I understand that such studies sometimes happen in a setting with a patient without taking into account its characteristics, making it almost a sort of ideal patient. Tests on such patients therefore only produce results for people with that specific, very isolated problem, while people are complicated and often have multiple problems. The test should therefore be carried out with patients who have other problems besides CVS. I fully understand your concern when you say that this should not happen out of the loose wrist, that the results should be scientifically proven or that the practice should show that the treatment is good. That is why I propose to look with an open sight at the therapies that can help. I am not saying that the current therapy would not be good, but the question is whether other therapies are at least as good, if not better. In practice, patients may be satisfied with three or four of these treatments. So I would like to appeal, even if you say that this must be scientifically investigated, to give the other forms of therapy opportunities to prove that they are sufficiently effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u122	One in two Belgians is overweight and 15% is effectively obese. Obesity is an important risk factor for various diseases, including type 2 diabetes, which we have already discussed. Worldwide obesity costs us 2.8 % of annual economic activity. That is as much as smoking or armed conflicts in the world and more than alcoholism and climate change combined. The extent of obesity has assumed alarming proportions. Indeed, prevention is and remains the best treatment and the Flemish Government is largely responsible for that. In the meantime, however, one in two Belgians is already overweight and there are also several levers at the federal level that can be used to combat obesity. I have the following questions. Firstly, what approach are you planning for the Belgians who are already overweight? That is and remains a federal matter. Secondly, are you planning, within the powers of the government, measures that can prevent overweight?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u123	Mrs Van Camp, thank you for your question. Since 2005, Belgium has had a National Food and Health Plan which pays considerable attention to obesity issues. The plan was developed in 2005 and was therefore based on recommendations formulated by international organisations such as the European Union and the WHO. The section on prevention, health promotion and sensitisation largely falls within the competence of the Communities. However, there are also federal powers. In that respect, it was decided to fund a food team within the hospitals. These teams were launched in 2007 in the form of pilot projects. The number of projects has gradually increased. Since this year, all general hospitals have been financed for the creation of such a team that is at least made up of a dietician, a nurse, a doctor, a pharmacist and, of course, also responsible for the kitchen. These teams, which were initially intended to prevent malnutrition of patients, and in particular older patients, were therefore rapidly involved in the detection and treatment of overweight patients. For example, in 2013, almost 25 000 obese patients were identified among nearly 160 000 detected patients. This amounts to 15.6 %. These teams also have the task of improving the exchange of nutrition information between all patient-related care providers. This concerns the exchange of information, both within the hospital and with the primary care providers. Initiatives were also launched to sensitise the care teams for motivating the patient to do more regular exercise, but also for an extreme transfer of the data with nutritional recommendations, such as the diet booklet, the hospital/home connection, home/RVT and hospital/RVT. In addition, the discharge document also adds a list of tips to adapt the food at home based on simple and easy-to-achieve foods. They will therefore not only be given their prescription, but also, for example, the board to step out three times a half-hour, depending on the condition, when they are discharged from the hospital. Food advice, sometimes with a number of calories and sometimes with specific dietary advice, is also provided by the hospital.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u124	That happens in hospitals, and that's very positive. That's a nice initiative. But as far as the total population is concerned, I believe that at federal level there is still scope for levers, for example the promotion of healthy nutrition, the registration of doctors and the link to a dietician. Something can happen there, of course, in cooperation with the Communities. At federal level there is also a tax on certain foods, and even in the conditions of reimbursement we see possibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u125	Madam President, Madam Minister, the general practitioner is the centre of attention. It is crucial for patients to be able to take care of both urgent and non-urgent in a language they understand, which is their own. Unfortunately, aid in its own language is not evident in Brussels. Already, Dutch-speaking patients in Brussels often cannot go to IRIS and OCMW hospitals in their own language, although this is contrary to language law. This situation causes distressing conditions and an increased risk of far-reaching medical consequences. I don't have to tell you that as a specialist in the matter. Therefore, in organising a watchkeeping service in Brussels, in addition to the traditional parameters of a watchkeeping service, such as the workload for the general practitioners concerned and the avoidance of long waiting times, the language aspect is crucial. Dutch-speaking patients must be assured that they will be helped in their language, both on the telephone call to the watch service, and on the reception at the watch station and at the treating general practitioner. Given the complexity of organising a bilingual watch-keeping service in Brussels with the guarantee of quality care, but also the fact that Dutch-speaking patients in Brussels have the right to call on a watch-keeping service in their own language, I would like you to answer the following questions. These are also raised by concern, as we have heard that plans would exist to merge the BHAK and the French counterpart. Firstly, will you ask for a new study on the organisation of the watchkeeping service for general practitioners in Brussels? Secondly, pending the results of this possible study, what guarantees do you offer and what actions will you take to ensure that, when calling for the watch service, at the reception in the guard station and during contact with the general practitioner, Dutch-speaking patients are helped in Dutch at all times?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u126	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, I am not considering a new study on the organisation of GP services in Brussels. A policy is currently being pursued within the health insurance management structures, whereby the Insurance Committee of the RIZIV concludes financing contracts for the guard organisation on a proposal from the National Committee on Medicine-Sickness Funds. In this context, a number of contracts were concluded at the beginning of this year for the reorganisation of the guard service in the territory of the Brussels-Capital Region. One of these contracts was concluded with the Brussels General Doctors Circle, which groups the Dutch general practitioners. The contract provides for the financing of a coordinating employee for a period of nine months for an amount of EUR 41 000. This coordinator should, among other things, support the circle in its decision on possible accession to the global reform project, which was also approved by the aforementioned bodies and developed by the Federation of Associations de Médecins Généralites de Bruxelles. Through this funding is thus provided an instrument that should also provide the necessary guarantees that you ask for in your second question, namely the guarantee that the patient will be answered and treated in his own language. It may also be added that the abovementioned financing contracts always require that the waiting organisation takes into account the linguistic composition of the population. The above-mentioned bodies will take decisions primarily on the basis of the decision-making of the Brussels Generalists' Group on the further development of the financing of general practitioners' services on the territory of the Brussels-Capital Region. I do not have to tell you that Brussels is not just about the question of French and Dutch. A lot of other languages are spoken there. This is a very important matter. That is why this procedure has been developed specifically for them. There is also a coordinating employee, which is exceptional, to negate in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u127	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I have already heard that the BHAK has not been involved in the reorganisation contracts you mentioned. The coordinator to whom you refer is French speaking. He doesn't even speak the language of the BHAK. I therefore wonder to what extent the BHAK was involved in that contract and to what extent their sighs were heard. The idea in itself and the concept are good, but it is really a pity that the BHAK, an important organ, was not heard enough. So I'm asking you to reconsider that. The guarantees are on paper in the document. I am aware of that, but they are really insufficient. I fear that, if the merger continues, it will be detrimental to the provision of care in Dutch. It is intended to focus on bilingual and, as you say, even multilingual general practitioners and not on a French-speaking body. We both know the consequences: French will be the dominant language and the Dutch patients in Brussels will no longer be able to go to Dutch for their care. Once the merger has taken place, you could say that we can wait and see it too late. There is already a shortage of Dutch-speaking general practitioners. Once the merger is there, and if it's thoughtless, it's too late. I would like to express my concern about this and ask you to double-check the contracts and to draw them up.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u128	You say that no contact was made with the Brussels General Medical Circle (BHAK) when a contract was concluded. If a contract has been concluded with the Brussels General Doctors Circle, which groups the Dutch-speaking doctors, they have been involved, haven't they? Otherwise, they can't have a contract. I'm not going to sign a contract with you if I don't know you, if I don't have contact with you. I'll check, but I don't quite understand where your information comes from. I will have to check that the coordinating officer is only French speaking, because I have not been informed of this. I'll ask if that's true. A contract has been signed with the Brussels General Medical Circle. Then there must have been a contact, right? Maybe not with everyone, but there must have been representatives involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic029x.u129	My information comes directly from the board of directors of the BHAK. If there is such concern, it is a very good reflex of yours to find out to what extent they have been involved. Are they involved in the contract or not? To what extent are they effectively involved and to what extent have they been heard? Will it be checked whether the coordinator meets the requirements to deal with such an important matter?
