ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic019x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the press reports that some businesses, such as Media Markt, use identity card readers to "allow customers to store and access all their purchases to keep all guarantee tickets online". You are aware that the data contained on an identity card is protected, in particular by the law on the protection of privacy with regard to the processing of personal data. It requires that "personal data must be processed fairly and lawfully for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes". The case-law in this regard is, moreover, very strict. Thus, on 9 May 2012, the 9th Chamber of the Brussels Court of Appeal sentenced a computer company that had developed a service to use electronic identity cards as a loyalty card for commercial purposes. In the light of this information, I wonder some questions. Did Media Markt make the prior declarations or obtain the authorizations of the ad hoc sectoral committee before collecting and using personal data on the electronic chips of identity cards? If so, what are the data collected? How are they used? For what purposes? Do you consider the use of ID card in this context to be legitimate and proportionate? Is there not another less intrusive way in terms of privacy protection that allows the trader to achieve the same result?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic019x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since I cannot comment on the facts referred to by the press, I shall confine myself to reminding myself of the legal principles. To answer the question as to whether Media Markt has completed the prior statements or obtained the authorizations of the ad hoc sectoral committee, I have forwarded your question to the Privacy Commission. She provided me with the following answers. The Commission has recently taken up the case. A survey is under way to examine whether Media Markt's data processing procedures comply with the Privacy Act. A person may be asked to present his or her identity card by a private company only when his or her identification is necessary for the performance of a contractual relationship, customer service or where a legal statement so provides. In this case, only data strictly relevant to the processing carried out by the controller may be collected, pursuant to Article 4 of the Privacy Act. On 25 May 2011, the Commission issued an own-initiative recommendation No 03/2011 on the taking, use and electronic reading of identity cards. On that occasion, it considered certain business practices using ID as a means of collecting so-called customer identification data. Instead of issuing a loyalty card, some traders sometimes request the electronic reading of their customers' identity cards at each time in order to record the number of their purchases, with a view to giving them a discount or any advantage in reward for their loyalty. The Commission considered that it is only through the customer's specific and informed free consent that his identity card can be used for this purpose. An alternative to the use of ID cards should therefore be offered to customers who do not wish to use their ID cards in this context. In addition, Article 6, § 4 of the Law of 19 July 1991 on population registers, identity cards and residence documents provides that "any automated control of identity cards by means of optical or other reading procedures shall be the subject of a royal decree adopted after the opinion of the sectoral committee of the National Register". This royal decree has not yet been taken. On this point, I would remind the honourable Member that the law on identity cards falls within the competence of my colleague from the Interior, Mr Jambon.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic019x.u3	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your clear explanations. From now on, we look forward to the outcome of the investigation necessary for this case.
