ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today the Chamber meets automatically on the basis of Article 44 of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the House is meeting today, as a matter of law, under section 44 of the Constitution. I declare open the legislative session 2014-2015. I declare the 2014-2015 legislative session open.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u3	By letter of 11 October 2014, the Prime Minister shall transmit a copy of the Royal Decrees of 11 October 2014 entitled "Government of the Federal Republic of Germany'. By letter dated October 11, 2014, the Prime Minister transmitted copies of the royal decrees of October 11, 2014, entitled "Government – Resignations – Appointments".
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u4	Article 50 of the Constitution states that "A member of one of the two chambers appointed by the King as Minister and appointing him shall hold his office and resume his term of office when the King has ceased his office as Minister." Article 50 of the Constitution provides that "the member of one of the two Chambers, appointed by the King as Minister and accepting him, shall cease to sit and resume his term of office when he has been terminated by the King as Minister". According to Article 1a of the Law of 6 August 1931 determining the incomparencies and disqualifications concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, as well as the members and former members of the Legislative Chambers, the Minister of the Federal Government who ceases to sit is replaced by the first eligible successor to the list on which the Minister was elected. According to Article 1bis of the Act of 6 August 1931 establishing incompatibilities and prohibitions concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, as well as members and former members of the Legislative Chambers, the minister of the federal government who ceases to sit is replaced by the first substitute in order of the list on which the minister was elected. We must therefore proceed with the admission and swearing-in of those successors. We must therefore take the admission and swearing-in of these alternates. These are: - Mr Vincent Scourneau, first successor to the MR list of the Walloon-Brabant constituency, in place of Mr Charles Michel; - Mr Johan Klaps, first successor to the N-VA list of the Antwerp constituency, in place of Mr Jan Jambon; - Ms Katja Gabriels, first successor to the Open Vld list of the East Flanders constituency, in place of Mr Alexander De Croo; - Ms Sophie Wilmès, first successor to the MR list of the Brussels-Capital constituency, in place of Mr Didier Reynders; - Mrs Els Van Hoof, first successor to the Flemish-Brabant constituency's CD&V list, in place of Mr Koen Geens; - Mr Dirk Janssens, first successor to the Open Vld list of the Flemish-Brabant constituency, in place of Mrs Maggie De Block; - Mr Luc Gustin, first successor to the list of MEPs in Liège, in place of Mr Daniel Bacquelaine; - Mr Richard Miller, first successor to the MR list of the Hainaut constituency, in place of Mrs Marie-Christine Marghem; - Mr Wouter Raskin, first successor to the N-VA list of the Limburg constituency, in place of Mr Steven Vandeput; - Ms Sarah Claerhout, first successor to the CD&V list of the East Flanders constituency, in place of Mr Pieter De Crem; - Mrs Renate Hufkens, first successor to the N-VA list of the Flemish-Brabant constituency, in place of Mr Theo Francken. These are the following alternates: - Mr. Vincent Scourneau, first deputy of the MR list in the electoral district of Brabant Wallon, replacing Mr. Charles Michel; - Mr Johan Klaps, first substitute of the N-VA list in the electoral district of Antwerp, replacing Mr Jan Jambon; - Ms. Katja Gabriëls, first alternate of the Open Vld list in the electoral district of East Flanders, replacing Mr. Alexander De Croo; - Ms Sophie Wilmès, first deputy of the MR list in the electoral district of Brussels-Capital, replacing Mr Didier Reynders; - Ms. Els Van Hoof, first alternate on the CD&V list for the constituency of the Flemish Brabant, replacing Mr. Koen Geens; - Mr. Dirk Janssens, first substitute of the Open Vld list in the constituency of the Flemish Brabant, replacing Mrs. Maggie De Block; - Mr. Luc Gustin, first substitute of the MR list for the electoral district of Liège, replacing Mr. Daniel Bacquelaine; - Mr. Richard Miller, first substitute of the MR list for the electoral district of Hainaut, replacing Ms. Marie-Christine Marghem; - Mr Wouter Raskin, the first substitute of the N-VA list in the electoral district of Limburg, to replace Mr Steven Vandeput; - Ms Sarah Claerhout, the first alternate on the CD&V list for the electoral district of East Flanders, replacing Mr Pieter De Crem; - Ms. Renate Hufkens, first deputy of the N-VA list in the electoral district of the Flemish Brabant, replacing Mr. Theo Francken. The credentials of these successors were declared valid at our meeting on 19 June 2014. The credentials of these alternates were validated at our meeting on 19 June 2014. Since the additional examination required by Article 235 of the Choice Code refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the present circumstances, is purely formal. I therefore propose that these successors be allowed to sit as members of the Chamber of Representatives in place of the members appointed by the King as minister or secretary of state and for as long as the term of office of the President of Parliament lasts. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of these alternates to serve as members of the House of Representatives in place of the members appointed by the King as ministers or secretaries of state and during the term of office of the latter. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would remind you that the elected representatives of the people of the Brussels district are part of the Dutch or French language group of the Chamber, depending on whether they take the oath in Dutch or in French. If the oath is taken in several languages, the language in which it was first taken is decisive. I would point out that the Members elected by the electoral college of the arrondissement of Brussels are members of either the French linguistic group or the Dutch linguistic group of the Chamber, depending on whether they take an oath in French or Dutch. If the oath is taken in several languages, the one used in the first place is decisive. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I recall the terms of the oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution" "Ik zweer de Grondwet na te leven" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen '. I would ask Mr Vincent Scourneau to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mr. Vincent Scourneau to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u5	Mr Vincent Scourneau will be part of the French language group. Mr. Vincent Scourneau will be a member of the French linguistic group.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u6	I would ask Mr Johan Klaps to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mr Johan Klaps to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u7	Mr Johan Klaps will be part of the Dutch language group. Mr Johan Klaps will be a member of the Dutch language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u8	I would ask Mrs Katja Gabriels to take the constitutional oath. I ask Ms. Katja Gabriëls to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u9	Ms Katja Gabriëls will be part of the Dutch language group. Katja Gabriëls will be a member of the Dutch language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u10	I would ask Mrs Sophie Wilmès to take the constitutional oath. I ask Sophie Wilmès to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u11	Ms Sophie Wilmès will be part of the French language group. Sophie Wilmès will be a member of the French linguistic group.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u12	I would ask Mrs Els Van Hoof to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mrs Els Van Hoof to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u13	Mrs. Els Van Hoof will be part of the Dutch language group. Ms Els Van Hoof will be a member of the Dutch language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u14	I would ask Mr Dirk Janssens to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mr Dirk Janssens to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u15	Mr Dirk Janssens will be part of the Dutch language group. Mr Dirk Janssens will be a member of the Dutch language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u16	I would ask Mr Luc Gustin to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mr. Luc Gustin to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u17	Mr Luc Gustin will be part of the French language group. Mr. Luc Gustin will be a member of the French linguistic group.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u18	I would ask Mr Richard Miller to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mr. Richard Miller to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u19	Mr Richard Miller will be part of the French language group. Mr. Richard Miller will be a member of the French language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u20	I would ask Mr Wouter Raskin to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mr Wouter Raskin to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u21	Mr Wouter Raskin will be part of the Dutch language group. Mr Wouter Raskin will be a member of the Dutch language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u22	I would ask Mrs Sarah Claerhout to take the constitutional oath. I ask Sarah Claerhout to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u23	Ms Sarah Claerhout will be part of the Dutch language group. Sarah Claerhout will be part of the Dutch language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u24	I would ask Mrs Renate Hufkens to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mrs Renate Hufkens to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u25	Ms Renate Hufkens will be part of the Dutch language group. Ms Renate Hufkens will be a member of the Dutch language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u26	1. The Agency shall consist of: - the President, - the three Vice-Presidents; - and the Bureau members. 2. The Office shall be supplemented by: - former Presidents, member of the Chamber; - the chairmen of the political groups; - an additional member per political group with fewer than 12 members who are not members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. 1 member of the Office referred to. 1. The Bureau shall be composed of: - the President; - three Vice-Presidents; - and members of the Bureau. 2. The Bureau shall be supplemented by: - former presidents, members of the House; - the chairmen of political groups; - one associate member per political group with fewer than 12 members and without a member of the Bureau referred to in point 1. The President shall be elected in accordance with Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The Vice-Presidents and Bureau members shall be appointed by the Chamber in accordance with Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure. 1, first sentence, on a proposal from the political groups, including the Presidency in the allocation of these posts according to the proportional representation of the political groups and with as many members as is necessary to ensure that each political group with at least 12 members has at least one member of the Bureau. The President shall be appointed in accordance with rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The Vice-Presidents and members of the Bureau shall be appointed by the Chamber in accordance with Rule 158(1), first sentence, and on the proposal of the political groups, provided that the Presidency is taken into account for the allocation of these functions in accordance with the rule of proportional representation of political groups and that as many appointments are made as is necessary for each political group of at least 12 members to have at least one member on the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u27	The only election to be held is that of the President of the Chamber. The only appointment to be made is that of the Speaker of the House. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u28	Mr President, I propose Mr Siegfried Bracke's candidacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u29	As only one candidate is nominated, no vote shall be taken. Consequently, Mr Siegfried Bracke was elected President of the Chamber and I would ask him to take his seat at the Bureau. Since there is only one candidate, there is no vote. As a result, Mr. Siegfried Bracke is elected Speaker of the House and I would ask him to take a seat on the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u30	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your confidence. I just want to say two things. Firstly, I would like to thank my predecessor for the way in which he has taken care of our Chamber in recent months. Patrick, betankt. [[Applause]] I will try to be the president of all colleagues, both those of the majority and those of the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u31	The next item is the appointment of the three Vice-Presidents and the members of the Bureau. The three Vice-Presidents and the members of the Bureau should be appointed. In accordance with Articles 3, No. 1, and 158, No. 1 of our Rules of Procedure, in order 1 PS, 1 MR, 1 CD&V, 1 N-VA, 1 Open Vld, 1 sp.a and 1 Ecolo-Green. In accordance with Articles 3, 1 and 158, 1 of our Rules of Procedure, we must appoint in order 1 PS, 1 MR, 1 CD&V, 1 N-VA, 1 Open Vld, 1 sp.a. and 1 Ecolo-Groen. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u32	Mr President, I propose that Mr André Frédéric be nominated as the first Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u33	Mr President, I commend Mr Dirk Van Mechelen's candidacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u34	As a member of the Bureau, of course?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u35	Mr President, I propose that Mrs Françoise Schepmans be nominated as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u36	Mr President, I would like to propose the candidacy of Mrs Sonja Becq as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u37	I declare Mr André Frédéric, Mrs Françoise Schepmans and Mrs Sonja Becq elected Vice-Presidents. I declare Mr. André Frédéric, Mrs. Françoise Schepmans in Mrs. Sonja Becq as Vice-Presidents of the House. We still have a number of Bureau members to choose.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u38	Mr President, on behalf of the N-VA, I would like to introduce Mrs Sarah Smeyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u39	Mr President, on behalf of sp.a., I would like to introduce Mr Johan Vande Lanotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u40	Mr President, on behalf of our group, I would like to introduce Mr Stefaan Van Hecke as a member of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u41	I declare Mrs Sarah Smeyers and Mr Dirk Van Mechelen, Johan Vande Lanotte and Stefaan Van Hecke elected members of the Bureau of the Chamber. I declare Sarah Smeyers and MM. Dirk Van Mechelen, Johan Vande Lanotte and Stefaan Van Hecke as members of the House Bureau. The Office shall also include: - former Presidents, member of the Chamber; - the chairmen of the political groups: . Mr Hendrik Vuye, Chairman of the N-VA Group; . Ms Laurette Onkelinx, Chairman of the PS Group; . Mr Denis Ducarme, Chairman of the MR Group; . Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Chairman of the CD&V Group; . Mr Patrick Dewael, Chairman of the Open Group; . Ms Karin Temmerman, Chairman of the sp.a. Group; . Mr Kristof Calvo, Chairman of the Ecolo-Green Group; . Ms Catherine Fonck, Chairman of the CdH Group; - an additional member per political group with fewer than 12 members who do not have a bureau member. I give the floor to the chairman of the CdH Group, who has not been appointed to the Bureau by the Chamber, for the appointment of an additional member. The following members of the Bureau are also members of the Bureau: - former presidents, members of the House; - the presidents of the political groups: - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - one associate member per political group with fewer than 12 members and without a member on the Bureau. I give the floor to the chair of the cdH group who does not have a member of the Bureau appointed by the House for the appointment of an associate member.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u42	Mr President, I propose Mr Francis Delperée.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u43	I declare Mr Francis Delpérée elected as an additional member of the Bureau. I declare Mr. Francis Delperee an associate member of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u44	The Chamber has been declared lawful and complete. This will be notified to the King, to the Senate and to the community and regional parliaments. The Chamber is constituted. This will be made known to the King, the Senate and the community and regional parliaments. That Kammer ist zusammengestellt. Seine Majestät der König, der Senat sowie die Regional- und Gemeinschaftsparlamente became hiervon in Kentnis gesetzt.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u45	By letter of 25 September 2014, the Parliament of the French Community informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 25 September 2014, the Parliament of the French Community announced that it had constituted itself at its sitting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u46	By letter dated 11 October 2014, Mr Johan Van Overtveldt informed the President of the European Parliament that he had been appointed a member of the Belgian federal government on 11 October 2014. By letter dated 11 October 2014, Johan Van Overtveldt informed the President of the European Parliament that he had been appointed a member of the federal government on 11 October 2014. In accordance with Article 6 (1) of the Act of 20 September 1976 concerning the election of representatives of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage, that function is incompatible with the mandate of a Member of the European Parliament. In accordance with Article 6(1) of the Act of 20 September 1976 on the election of representatives to the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage, this function is incompatible with the term of office of a Member of the European Parliament. The successor who is eligible to replace Mr Johan Van Overtveldt is Mr Sander Loones. The alternate to replace Mr Johan Van Overtveldt is Mr Sander Loones. It appears that he still fulfils the eligibility conditions laid down in Articles 1 and 41 of the Law of 23 March 1989 concerning the election of the European Parliament. It appears that it still fulfils the eligibility conditions laid down in Articles 1 and 41 of the Act of 23 March 1989 on the election of the European Parliament. In order to enable Mr Sander Loones to exercise his mandate as a Member of the European Parliament, I propose that he be appointed a Member of the European Parliament. In order to enable Mr Sander Loones to exercise his mandate as a Member of the European Parliament, I propose that you present him as a Member of the European Parliament. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u47	The next item is the government statement. The next item is the government statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u48	Mr. Chairman, the government policy statement is an extremely important moment for the new Prime Minister, for his government, for the opposition and for the population, no doubt. All this must take place in the most serene climate possible. However, since the swearing-in of the members of the government, two major facts have come to disrupt the young life of this government, namely, on the one hand, Mr Jambon's comments on the collaboration and, on the other hand, Mr Franken's participation on the anniversary of a Nazi collaborator. In this regard, I think that if we really want to have this calm debate, perhaps we should evacuate the debate on the responsibility of these two ministers for the facts that I have just stated. What I would like to ask is that before we listen to the policy statement, we can hear the explanation either from the Prime Minister or from the two ministers concerned about the facts that I have just mentioned. [[Applause on the opposition benches]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u49	Mrs Onkelinx, I suggest we stick to the agenda. I call the Prime Minister. Mr Calvo, you are asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u50	Mr President, this is about Mrs Onkelinx's point.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u51	Is it about the same theme?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u52	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u53	Mr Calvo, the point is not on our agenda. We are now listening to the Prime Minister. From tomorrow onwards, the debate will be completely open. For the third time, I propose that we give the floor to the Prime Minister. [[...]] [[: (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u54	I repeat that tomorrow the debate will be totally open! ) (...) : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure are well known to me on this point. However, it also requires that we stick to the order of the day. I call the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hear Mrs Onkelinx's inquiry. I am, of course, prepared to respond to this inquiry, but I ask that the methods and order of business be respected. I find it difficult for a government that does not yet have Parliament's confidence to react to the comments made by our colleague, Mrs Onkelinx. That is why, in order to ensure the serenity and dignity of our work, I would like to propose to the members of this House that I be allowed to present the government statement. Subsequently, parliamentary debates will take place. Of course, if my Government obtains the confidence of this Parliament, I will not fail to reply to each of the inquiries that will be addressed to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u57	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u58	Mrs Onkelinx, we will respect the order of the day. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). From tomorrow, the whole debate will be open.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u59	Mr. President,... [[Brouhaha]] Mr. President, I'm asking... [[Brouhaha]] Does mutual respect make it possible to listen to each other? Mrs Onkelinx, does mutual respect allow us to listen to each other? Is that possible for you? Compliance with parliamentary procedures allows a government to submit the government statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u60	Mr President, this coalition agreement sets out an orientation for the next five years. It is based on a clear vision of the future. It also relies on a conviction: economic development is the key to the social project. Protecting and developing employment and thus ensuring the sustainable financing of our social protection is our guiding principle. This agreement is based on three prior commitments signed by the four partners: institutional stability must be guaranteed, social dialogue must be made more flexible, the overall fiscal and parafiscal pressure must not increase and the burden on labour should be reduced. The sixth state reform will be carried out loyally. We'll work with the sub-areas. The transfer of powers will be carried out. There will therefore be no new state reform in the next five years. After that, it will be the electorate who will decide on the various political projects. This is enshrined in our electoral system and made possible by the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, in our history, the social partners have always played an essential role. Social dialogue must ensure the stability and legitimacy of reforms. The quality of social dialogue deserves constant attention. The social partners and the government have a shared responsibility to maintain this dialogue and thus develop capacity and prosperity. That is why the government will propose a common strategy, a real future plan, to the social partners. We want to establish a clear pact. We will determine the modalities necessary to work on them permanently and effectively. A secretariat will be set up. The Government is committed to the full implementation of the tripartite agreements to be concluded in the framework of these consultations. Global fiscal and parafiscal pressures will not rise. The burden on labour must be reduced. After all, budgetary consolidation has been fully achieved thanks to savings in public expenditure. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our entire government agenda is oriented towards the future for present and future generations. It is based on the lucid diagnosis of the economic and social situation without dramatization but without illusion. Our duty is to create the conditions for prosperity in order to develop social progress and we want to provide the relevant answers to the challenges of tomorrow today. We want a society that opens the field of the possible, a society where freedom rhymes with solidarity so that everyone finds their place and can seize their chance. In this agreement, we refused the ease of the catalogue of good intentions. On the contrary. This government agreement is precise, concrete and quantified. We chose to refuse austerity for austerity. We chose to ease the fiscal trajectory in order to achieve structural fiscal balance in 2018. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this government agreement sets a course: we dare to make clear choices, we take responsible action because precisely we know where we want to go and how we want to go. We want to modernise our country through structural reforms, without leaving anyone at the edge of the road. Don't do anything, it's back. With all our strength, we reject fatalism and immobilism. In fact, we are convinced that the main threat to our social protections would be inaction and lack of courage. Ladies and gentlemen, you have understood this from the outset, the first of our priorities is employment, and we are joining in the action because we are deciding on a historic reduction of EUR 4 billion in the cost of labour, EUR 4 billion that companies can re-inject into employment, training and innovation. We want to support all businesses, small, medium, large. We want to support the self-employed and we intend to improve their social status, for example through equalisation of pensions or access to the second pillar. A specific plan for small and medium-sized enterprises will also be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, we also have concrete commitments in this area. Firstly, the increase in the wage handicap since 1996 will be eliminated before the end of the legislative term. Secondly, employers' contributions will fall from 33% to 25%, with legal anchoring. Thirdly, the index jump will be adjusted socially. The aim is to neutralize the index gap for the lowest incomes and the automatic wage indexing mechanism is not called into question. It may still be reformed. Fourthly, the labour market will be made more flexible in order to facilitate recruitment, for example by the annualisation of working time and by measures for student jobs and for the catering industry. Fifth, the 1996 law will be amended. We want to encourage work, especially for young people and long-term job seekers. We are fighting unemployment, never the job seeker! We are fighting unemployment, never job seekers! The government will adapt the unemployment regulations for certain job seekers who are doing community service. Ladies and gentlemen, tax is necessary. To be legitimate, it must be fair and equitable. There will be no general increase in VAT. There will be no taxation on rents or real property. There will be no labour crisis contribution. In addition to the massive fall in parafiscal charges, we want to undertake a major tax reform of the labour tax. Moreover, without waiting for this reform, as early as 2015, we will increase the deductible flat-rate charges to support the purchasing power of assets by an average of 250 euros per year per taxpayer. We will also take measures to promote fiscal stability and legal certainty, while ensuring transparency and respect for taxpayers. We are specific: we say how we will finance the measures we are taking since we are going to increase the excise duty on tobacco and gradually on diesel. We will also increase taxation on stock exchanges and banks. We'll adjust the VAT. Finally, in the interests of fairness, we will tax intercommunals and trusts and thus end tax privileges. The fight against social dumping is essential, especially for certain sectors facing it, such as construction. We will strongly advocate, at European level, for the establishment in each Member State of an inter-professional or sectoral minimum wage. Exchange of information between national inspection services will be promoted. Ladies and gentlemen, another issue directly related to employment is pension reform. Every month in our country, 10,000 people retire, 120,000 a year, 1 million in the next eight years. In seven years, the pension budget has increased from €25 billion to €37 billion, an increase of 67%. Those who say that it is possible to continue without reform do not tell the truth! Only a long-term vision can guarantee the financing of pensions, and that is the way we have chosen. In close consultation with the social partners, we will implement the pension reform based on the ten principles defined by the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040. Here too, we have a language of truth because of the dramatic increase in life expectancy; we need to extend the average length of careers with predictable and long-term reforms. In line with the recommendations of the Committee of Experts, we are setting a course: to extend the average length of careers. The legal age of the pension will be maintained at 65 years throughout the legislature and from 2030 onwards, in 15 years, the legal age of the pension will be 67 years, with the continuation of 45 years of career. Workers aged 50 and over are therefore not affected and the exceptions to long and difficult careers will be maintained. Further measures to achieve this objective will be necessary. There will indeed be sufficiently long transitional periods. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our social security is the result of a long history of struggle and progress. It is our duty to guarantee its sustainable financing. We want to consolidate these solidarity mechanisms because they help us when things are less good. We don't want multiple-speed healthcare. We guarantee the financing of social security, a guaranteed growth of 1.5% on top of inflation. This corresponds to a growth rate of 2.2 % next year or an increase of 1.2 billion euros compared to today. So there is no cut in the budgets. Health care actors are becoming more responsive. The financing of hospitals will be reformed. The government is committed to ensuring access to quality healthcare. The electronic medical record will become mandatory. The Health Action Plan will be implemented. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, almost 15% of our citizens live below the poverty line. This is an unworthy situation for our country and no one can remain indifferent to it. We want to act in consultation with federal actors and federated entities, in consultation with CPAS, which are the first players on the ground. We are making a strong commitment: minimum social benefits will be raised to the level of the European poverty line. The 2015-2018 and 2019-2020 "well-being" envelopes will be allocated to more than 100%. These are €1.2 billion, an increase of more than half a billion compared to the previous legislature. We will develop a multi-year federal plan of action to combat poverty, in which each of the ministers will have to be personally involved, and special attention will be paid to the fight against child poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, energy is one of the crucial issues for the 21st century. We want to provide a response in two phases. In the short term, faced with the risk of blackout, we will take all measures to ensure as much as possible security of supply for households and businesses. Secondly, our vision of the future will have to be reflected in an energy pact with, in all cases, two specific and concrete elements: on the one hand, the extension of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 nuclear units, respectively, until 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2016 and, on the other hand, the duration of operation of these reactors, which will not exceed 2025. Such extensions must, of course, be subject to all security guarantees. Anyone who wants to ensure a better future cannot be blind to the climate challenges that we, as a small country, cannot address alone. That is why we must opt for cooperation in our own countries and realistic international agreements. Justice is an essential task of the State. We will continue to reform the judicial landscape. Justice must be made more efficient and accessible to citizens. The legal backlog remains too great. We do not accept this situation. Everyone must be able to exercise their right of access to justice. This access will be improved by the reform of legal aid, the introduction of legal aid insurance and the introduction of a summary judicial procedure to order payment. We also wish to reform the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure with the actors of the justice system. Our objective is to ensure a faster procedure while respecting the rights of litigants. In addition, we have decided to introduce security penalties for the most serious offences. A "guilty plea" procedure will speed up the judicial process. We believe that all sentences handed down must be carried out. We also believe that those who are litigants must find their full place in criminal proceedings. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our society is based on a foundation of fundamental freedoms and values. The Government's security policy is aimed at protecting and guaranteeing the fundamental rights of everyone. Our approach is comprehensive: it is based on cooperation, prevention and effective action by the security services. We will establish a National Security Council, which I will chair personally. It will serve as the focal point for security and intelligence matters and will meet regularly and whenever the situation so requires. The new comprehensive security framework note will be developed in close collaboration with local partners and federated entities. We will implement a prevention policy that takes into account a range of current challenges, such as cybercrime and border crime. Furthermore, the use of drugs in public spaces will not be subject to any tolerance, as prescribed by law. The government wants the police to be as available on the premises as possible. The administrative and operational work of the police will therefore be reviewed. The reform of the fire department is a major priority and will also be implemented in continuous consultation with the associations of cities and municipalities, the representative organisations of the fire department and the federations. Ladies and gentlemen, the international context has a direct impact on security in our country. We were all shocked by the attack against the Jewish Museum in Brussels last May and also by the recent barbaric practices of decapitation in Iraq. Extremism, radicalism and terrorism are a growing threat to the democratic countries and also to our security. More than 350 young people have left to fight in Iraq and Syria. Those who return must be monitored and accompanied. Everyone will have to answer for their actions, there may be a ban on access to Belgian territory for non-nationals, the status of refugee or asylum seeker may be revoked or refused when terrorist acts have been committed and the Belgian nationality of persons of dual nationality may be withdrawn. Civil society and religious leaders are involved in prevention. There will be consultations with the Länder and local entities, using their powers and proximity. The federal government is making this fight against radicalisation a priority. Our values and the security of the people of this country must be defended. Ladies and gentlemen, our responsibility is also to take into account new forms of family organization. Changes in society are being considered with a spirit of openness. For example, in the context of the reform of inheritance law or the possible double residence of children in alternative care. We also want a tolerant, just and emancipatory society. We want to combat all forms of discrimination. We want to pursue a positive policy towards people with disabilities in their access to employment, housing or leisure. We want to fight unwaveringly all forms of racism, all forms of incitement to hatred. Our policy is zero tolerance against all forms of violence, sexism, sexual violence, homophobia, transphobia or domestic violence. Ladies and gentlemen, the government wants to pursue a human and strong asylum and migration policy. We want to integrate the people who are being received from us. We want to continue with the current policy, that of a host country that meets its international and moral obligations. Abuse, however, will not be tolerated. The government will apply a quality and human return policy, in accordance with the return principle: voluntary if possible, forced if necessary. At European level, we will promote the establishment of a common asylum policy and ensure that immigration laws are strengthened and that the fight against illegal immigration is stepped up. In terms of mobility and road safety, reducing the number of road accidents with deaths and serious injuries should be a priority. Our aim is to reduce the 2010 statistics by 50% by 2020. The rail network provides part of the solution to the mobility problems. Punctuality, improved service provision and user safety are essential for us. In addition, the government will ask the two public enterprises to provide a minimum service in the event of strike in consultation with the social partners. If such an agreement is not submitted within a reasonable period of time, the government will take a legislative initiative without prejudice to the right to strike. A similar measure will apply to Belgocontrol. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to noise pollution around Brussels-National Airport, the Government intends to take all measures immediately to comply with the order of the Brussels Court of First Instance. We will implement the moratorium on changes to air routes on February 6, 2014. Secondly, in consultation with all the stakeholders involved, and especially the local residents, we will work towards a structural and definitive solution to combat noise pollution, particularly in areas with a high population concentration. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the world in which we live is dotted with tremors that disturb our landmarks... [[Brouhaha.]] Most recently, the parliament has just agreed to send Belgian troops to the international coalition to fight the Islamic State. Our country thus takes its place and its share in the security of the world. On behalf of the Nation, I would like to greet here with you the courage of our military and their families, engaged in foreign fields to defend our values and principles. We will give the army the means to carry out its tasks fully and properly. We will also implement military investment programs that can have a positive economic impact. We must also adapt our foreign policy to these changes. Realism, reliability and ambition will guide our diplomatic action in Europe, NATO, the United Nations, but also in our bilateral relations. We will value relations with neighbouring countries, particularly in the Benelux context, as well as our country's expertise in Central Africa. In the area of development cooperation, we will concentrate our efforts on a logic of effectiveness. The Government will tend, to the extent of budgetary means, towards a contribution of 0.7 per cent of gross national income. We will develop another vision of ownership, efficiency, autonomy and effective and measurable results. Mr President, in order to achieve this coalition agreement, we must count on an effective, forward-looking administration. The user will be the central point. The service concept will be strengthened, structures will be adapted to the new challenges. The neutrality of public services will be guaranteed. The government relies on a loyal partnership and is committed to a mutual relationship of trust. Public enterprises must play an exemplary role in good governance and provide quality services at competitive prices for all. For the sake of transparency, the CEO of each public undertaking will explain annually the operational policy followed to Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, our government is one of courage and responsibility. I want a government that unites and not a government that divides. I want to carry out necessary reforms in partnership and dialogue. We will reach out to the social partners, to the federated entities, to all the actors involved in our projects. We want to act. The fall in social security contributions will create jobs. Pension reform will be initiated and funding guaranteed. The labour market will be modernised. Taxation will be adjusted. Social security will be consolidated and justice will be done because security will be guaranteed. Ladies and gentlemen, you represent the nation. Through you, it is to each of our fellow citizens that I address myself today. This government is one of the necessary reforms. We want to listen and we want to be in action. We will say things as they are. We will say what meaning we give to the actions we put forward and, above all, we will act and act again. Like us, you have in your hands a part of the responsibility: building a stronger and fairer society, building a society that gives every young person the chance to take charge of his or her destiny, the chance to get closer to his or her dreams, building a society with open hands and open arms. We do not expect the future to come to us. We look the future straight into our eyes. We fully assume our responsibilities and duties. I ask you to trust my government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u61	Colleagues, I received a motion of confidence from the Prime Minister at 3.15 p.m. It reads as follows: 'The government demands the trust of the Chamber'. Colleagues, I received a motion of confidence from the Prime Minister at 3:15 p.m., which reads: "The government is asking for the confidence of the House." We cannot vote on this question earlier than 48 hours from today and this hour. We cannot vote on this text until 48 hours. We can therefore vote on the motion of confidence at 3.15 p.m. on Thursday at the earliest.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u62	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for this week's meetings. We must approve the agenda for this week's sittings. Are there any comments on the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u63	Mr President, it was in that spirit that we wanted to take the floor just now. I regret that we have not just had the opportunity to explain this. I regret the way in which the parliamentary year started. I do not think this is a good thing, and I hope that you will learn from it as President in the future and that you will give the opposition the opportunity to express itself. You could have noticed that our question was about the organization of work. What's our question? We have just taken note of the Prime Minister's declaration. I suspect it will be distributed on the benches of Members of this House. That's the tradition. But those are just the words. We have noted that, in addition to those words, almost all the figures are missing. Our group has therefore tabled an order motion pursuant to Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure to request those figures. I would like to remind you that these Rules of Procedure are intended to guarantee Parliament's right to speak and to act. If we want to have a serious parliamentary debate tomorrow on the future of this country, Parliament is entitled to all these figures. I think this is the absolute minimum. I refer to the Prime Minister's statement today in Le Soir. In the last sentence of his interview it says: "There is an exhaustive budgetary table up to 2018'. Parliament is entitled to these figures. That was our question earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u64	Mr President, in the course of the parliamentary debates tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, each minister in office will have the opportunity to explain precisely what the points are about the government agreement, including the financial dimension. On the other hand, I want to reassure the parliamentarians, including the least experienced among them: there will be a budgetary debate in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u65	Mr Prime Minister, I take note of that. I believe that your own parliamentary experience is also fairly limited. But that doesn't matter. The essence is that you yourself said in writing in Le Soir today that there is a budget table. If we have them at our disposal, we can have the debate tomorrow in all openness, in all serenity and with all seriousness. You yourself say that that table is there. Mr President, you have just missed an opportunity. If the government does not answer our question, you will now have a new opportunity to show that you are the President of the whole Parliament, not as in the Flemish Parliament, not as in the Flemish Government. The numbers on the table right away, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u66	Mr. Speaker, this is my first experience as a Member of Parliament. In all the communes of the country, when we approach the back-to-back debate, we are entitled to receive all the figures. Today, we are in the presence of a government that tells us that 100 per cent of its action will be on spending cuts. How can we hold a somewhat democratic debate if we are not given access to the figures? We are told 8 billion cuts and the question that all Members ask themselves before starting the debate is: where exactly are you going to cut? It seems to us logical that Members should have access to this information in order to conduct a calm debate in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u67	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Michel, in his Mayden speech – if I may say so – told us that the entire government program was encrypted. He just said it in the gallery! This is not what a journalist would have misunderstood, it is a statement before a responsible parliamentary assembly! So, Mr. Michel, if you want to be Prime Minister, put what you have in your hands in the House and don't play hide-and-seek!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u68	Mr President, I note that you have sat on Rule 49 of the Rules of Procedure. It is not a question of majority or opposition, it is a question of respect for democracy! This is all the more serious as it relates to the words and attitudes of two members of the government about whom the Prime Minister's silence is deafening!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u69	Mr President, I will not repeat what the various opposition parties have already said. However, I would like to warn you, Mr President. I too asked for the floor earlier. I did not ask to speak directly to hinder a number of things, because that is what you assumed, but to settle some matters. Mrs Onkelinx asked a very clear question from the PS. I would ask you to repeat this question after the debates. Then we can get an answer, as requested by various groups, on the attitude of a number of ministers. I would also like to support the question of obtaining the figures. We cannot have a serene, sound and correct debate if we do not have these figures, especially since not only the Prime Minister, but almost every minister of this government has already said that everything is correctly quantified and worked out. I do not see why we should not be able to get these figures immediately, so that we can debate them properly tomorrow and the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I have received the order motion, as explained by Mr Calvo, on the figures. I propose that we vote in favour and stand up, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Anyone who supports Mr Calvo's sense of order is right. (Slow noise and protest) Ladies and gentlemen, we shall first copy and distribute the text of the motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u71	Mr President, as your new President, I can understand that you may be somewhat lost in the face of opposition demands but...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u72	Pass vraiment, Madame Onkelinx!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u73	...that's no reason to despise her! First, you did not respond to the first request for a separate debate on the government's approach to Nazi collaboration. I note, like Mrs Fonck, that, moreover, the Prime Minister has not spoken on the subject, which is very serious. Secondly, you have the opportunity to request documents to be made available to all parliamentarians. You don't care! I would ask for a suspension of the sitting so that we can talk to you and the group leaders together about what is best for Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u74	Mr President, our question is relatively simple. We are asking for the table discussed by the Prime Minister to be made available. Mr President, it is important for peace in Parliament to return. We are therefore asking for a five-minute suspension so that we can look at the motion. That seems to me to be the best solution in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u75	Mr President, first of all, we had a Conference of Presidents earlier. We have discussed the order of business at length. And then, suddenly, we would like, when an agreement has been reached on the order of business, to change everything. If we agree between groups of the majority and the opposition in the Conference of Presidents, I am still surprised that in this way we would like to beat the cards again. Second element: I know you are at the level of the Socialist Party... You have been for a long, long time, too long to take responsibility. And even if it lasted a long time, never in all of your participations, you did not file, in the government statement, the figures you are asking for today. A little honesty, please! Third point: enough play, enough cinema!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u76	You're doing movies, but you're bad actors! Mr President, we call for a swift vote on Mr Calvo's motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u77	Mr President, I am a little ashamed of the citizens who have to look at this. It seems like a kindergarten has gone down right across the street from me. I therefore ask that we proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u78	Mr President, I would like to raise a point of order. In the context of this procedural debate, I believe that the article referred to by Mr Calvo is very clear. The Chamber is captured by a vote of confidence, and it prevails. All other motions are subordinate to that. You have received this motion and you have said when we will vote on it. The Conference of Presidents agreed with the leaders of the political groups on the way in which we will conduct the debate and there was unanimity in that regard. You must judge the admissibility of this motion. You have two options: you can declare them inadmissible, which I could perfectly understand, or you can declare admissible. However, you will determine the time at which this debate is to take place. The outcome is entirely in your hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u79	Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u80	Mr President, it is a tradition and a constant case law in this House that when a group leader requests a suspension of the sitting, it is immediately allowed to allow the Conference of Presidents to try to clear the procedural dispute. This has always been the constant jurisprudence of successive Presidents and I have a few years of presence in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u81	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the importance of the booklet from which Mr Dewael quotes. That's the Rules of Procedure. Rules of procedure are intended to ensure the proper conduct of these discussions. Whether one belongs to the majority or to the opposition, one must be able to rely on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. We tried that with a number of people just now in vain. We have tried to get the floor on the order of business on the basis of Article 17 (3). You refused. It's still a mystery to me why. I hope that you have listened carefully to Mr Dewael and that you will remember the lesson he has taught you. In any case, Mr President, I would advise you, as we recommend to every newcomer in this House, to read the booklet carefully and to allow us to invoke the Rules of Procedure, both from the majority and from the opposition. That's the basic respect this room deserves.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, the motion is admissible, but I propose that we now vote and stand up on the basis of the motion. I hope that the text will be distributed in the meantime, but I assume that Mr Calvo has adequately explained the content of his motion. As you know, it was a question of getting the figures. In the meantime, I hope the copies will be distributed. If that is not the case, I suggest that we suspend the sitting for five minutes and therefore resume our work at 3:38 p.m. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u83	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u84	In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Calvo's order motion has been distributed to the banks. You have been able to gain extensive knowledge of it. As I have already mentioned, I propose that we vote on his motion for a resolution when we sit down and stand up.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u85	Mr Calvo has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u86	Mr President, I take note of the fact that the government does not want to make the figures available. As regards you as President, I would like to say that the figures are very important for the debates over the next few days and weeks. If you can still persuade the government to be transparent, that would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u87	Mr President, I think you have a particular reading of the Rules of Procedure. In fact, earlier on, I was referring to Rule 49; now we are discussing Rule 54, which states that "in the context of an admissible motion (which you have admitted), the author and one member per political group may speak". That is why, before the vote, there could have been a debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-14-54-plenair-ip007x.u88	Mrs Fonck, everyone has been able to express their views on this. We will not prolong the debate to extend it. I love the debate. I also guarantee this, but not the debate for the sake of the debate. Are there any comments on this? [[No.]] The agenda has therefore been adopted. Is there any other comment on this? [[No]] Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 15 October 2014 at 10 a.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, October 15, 2014 at 10.00 a.m.
