ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament 149 by Mrs Karin Temmerman has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Raf Terwingen converted 369 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Raf Terwingen, Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u2	Minister, this is perhaps a strange question to ask the Minister of Justice. I am also a member of the Infrastructure Committee and could put the question there to the Minister responsible for the distribution of the mail. I suggest them to you anyway, because there are voices calling for mail to beg to private individuals no longer daily. On the one hand, I can understand that, because there is now more e-mailing than sending out traditional correspondence, but on the other hand, there are also services, and I am thinking in particular of justice services, to which time-sensitive mail is attached. If bpost no longer distributes the mail to private individuals on a daily basis, this may affect the time limits of the Exchange of Letters of Justice. That is why I am allowing myself to ask you this question. Do you know that bpost has plans to interpret the universal postal service more strictly and to stop serving people on a daily basis? If so, would this have an impact on the justice services?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u3	Mrs Dumery, the question of whether mail will still be distributed on a daily basis in the future is a responsibility of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development Cooperation, Digital Agenda, Telecommunications and Post, but the current provisions of universal service and the management agreement concluded by the State with bpost for the implementation of postal services are still in force. From daily contacts with bpost, the FPS Justice does not deduce that in the near future bpost would no longer ensure the daily delivery of postal documents originating from judicial services. That was confirmed by bpost to my administration this week. Furthermore, under the Optifed programme, a working group headed by the FPS Economy, with representatives of the FPS Justice, is currently working on the completion of a public postal service contract and the needs of the judicial services are being taken into account. The daily postal service has not yet been questioned there. For your information, I can inform you that the FPS Justice currently has 8 million pieces begging each year, of which 2 million are registered.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u4	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your detailed answer, particularly since I, especially in the Committee on Infrastructure, will take this with me when we discuss the management agreements, and in particular those of bpost. As a lawyer, I'm very sensitive about that. When the management agreements are discussed, I will watch over the message you received from bpost, namely that they will certainly continue to serve the justice services on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u5	It wasn't an email. It was a letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u6	The next item is questions Nos 397 by Mr Terwingen and 635 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, but they are both absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u7	Mr President, Minister, it is stipulated in your government agreement that "the government will provide sufficient budgetary means to ensure the implementation of the new legislation on internment. Internees must be able to be cared for in appropriate infrastructure and be adequately cared for and monitored." I'm not the one who says it, but you, Minister. Of course, I share that vision. However, the P&O Justice Steering Committee has decided not to renew certain contracts within the Paifve Social Defence Institution, which should have 3 psychiatrists, but one of whom has left. So there are two psychiatrists who work there 12 hours a week. It is therefore not a question of full-time employment. There were also 4 psychologists among whom 2 fixed-term contracts were not renewed. So there are two psychologists left, one of whom works part-time. There are therefore, for 208 internees who have severe psychiatric pathologies and who have often committed fairly serious acts, 2 psychiatrists 24 hours a week and 1.5 psychologists. Belgium has been condemned 14 times by the European Court of Human Rights because of the inadequate care of its inmates. I'm not saying you're responsible for these convictions because you weren't Minister of Justice. However, in view of the measures the government intends to take, I fear that next year Belgium will again be condemned. There is also the fact that a general practitioner has given notice and will not be replaced. A general practitioner will come 1 to 2 hours, 4 days a week. This will inevitably have a very serious therapeutic impact on the physical and mental health of internees and on the living conditions in this social defence institution for both internees and prison actors. From my previous profession - I am a trained criminologist - I know a psychiatrist and people who work there. They told me they were at the end of the world and they didn't know what was low. In fact, the center of Paifve is human misery. I know that a visit will take place on Friday, in which unfortunately I will not be able to participate. There is no longer any possible follow-up of these people who are deeply ill, with heavy pathologies. It can be said today that the law on internees is obviously not guaranteed or that the treatment of internees is worthy of the minimum. Minister, have you planned a consultation with the FPS Justice and the various correctional institutions before taking these rather radical measures, which are provided for in the budget? If it happened, what came out of it? What position do you intend to adopt? How do you intend to put in place adequate care for our interns in a social defence institution as a result of this possible reduction in the framework? Finally, can you reassure us about the quality of health care and the care of interned persons in the future in all social defence institutions as well as in prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u8	Minister, we can only welcome the willingness of the new government to provide adequate infrastructure and adequate care and follow-up to internees. However, like Ms. Lalieux, I have recently been alerted by staff at the Paifve Social Defence Institution about the difficult situation in which the institution is likely to be located in the weeks and months to come. It would appear that the P & O of the SPF Justice has notified the staff of the decision not to renew fixed-term contracts in prisons, including the Paifve Social Defence Institution. I am aware that the time has come for budgetary rigour and that all departments must make an effort. However, I would like to draw your attention to the situation in this institution where the non-renewal of these contracts concerns, in particular, several posts of "care" psychologists who provide basic psychological and therapeutic follow-up of the 205 internees in the institution, which is obviously of great consequence. The halving of psychologists working at the Paifve Social Defence Institution, which is already affected by the absence of an appointed general practitioner and the departure of one of his three psychiatrists, would cause significant human consequences for interns who need individualized therapeutic plans, but also an overload of work for all remaining staff, yet eager to continue the work started by a strong and dynamic team. A visit to this establishment will be organized this Friday. It seems to me important to point out that Belgium has already been the subject of several convictions in recent years by the European Court of Human Rights on the problem of internment, which you want to tackle. It seems to me a priority, if not an urgent one, to consider the following points. Can you confirm to us the information that fixed-term contracts in penal institutions will not be renewed, also for the positions of "care" psychologists in the Paifve social defence institution? Is there a way to prevent the difficult situation in which the establishment is likely to be in in the coming weeks? What do you intend to do in the future to provide interns with appropriate care and follow-up?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u9	Mrs Lalieux, Mr Goffin, thank you for asking me these questions. It is obvious that the situation of Paifve's Social Defence Institution (SDO) is at my heart and that all persons in similar circumstances must be subject to an obligation of means. In other words, it is our responsibility to provide them with the best care. However, it is true that two fixed-term contracts expire at the end of this year. Because of the savings, i.e. the 4% imposed on the staff envelope, these contracts will not be automatically renewed. It was agreed within the Management Committee of the SPF Justice that, for each contract of employment expiring at the end of the year, a request for renewal by contract may be submitted, provided that the reasons for the request are based on the key position of the person concerned. With respect to the Paifve ESD, the applications in question are being prepared. On the basis of their reasons, the Management Committee may decide to submit another application for renewal of the fixed-term contract to the Finance Inspectorate. However, I cannot prejudge the decision of the Executive Committee or the Finance Inspectorate. I still care about the situation of these people.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answer. I imagine you care about the situation of these internees. That's good! But you are the minister, you set the political priorities in Justice and in relation to your budget. If you don't do it, I hope you don't say, "You have a budget, there's a steering committee at the FPS Justice, do what you want with your budget, whatever my priorities." You have a lot of priorities. I've read your policy note. We cannot say "I want these people to be treated with dignity" – I have no doubt of your will – and add "but I rely on the steering committee and the Finance Inspectorate". It is up to you to sort between what is necessary and indispensable and the rest. I know that everything is necessary and indispensable for justice. I had hoped for an exception from Justice as there is a cultural exception – and I defend Culture; I am also eschewed from Culture. I really think you can't give up. This situation is known, and you're going to give up 208 people, as well as nursing, coaching and management staff? Minister, you would be directly responsible for the degradation of each of these people. I would like you to be more interventionist and proactive in this issue. I am talking about Paifve but also about all the prisons that are in a difficult situation today. Be aware that I do not hold you responsible for everything, but I would like you to take your responsibilities in this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u11	Minister, I am pleased that your response is particularly positive, and that you are sensitive to this specific issue. In the government agreement, this appears in full letter. If I understand your answer correctly, not all doors are closed. The assessment will have to take place in relation to the need for the position to be filled.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u12	Mr President, Minister, last October, the Federal Centre for Migration published its annual report on trafficking in human beings. The figures show a significant increase in cases for 2013. Indeed, we have increased to 1,108 reports of human exploitation in 2013, 586 of which are sexual in nature. You certainly heard this morning, like me, that the Sakharov Prize was given by the European Parliament to someone who is fighting against the sexual exploitation of human beings. All this demonstrates the importance of taking effective measures to combat this form of contemporary slavery, which also affects our country, even though Belgium is a pioneering country in the fight against this exploitation, which has become a very profitable and not necessarily risky activity for its authors. We are faced with a multitude of victim profiles, including the person who is sexually exploited and the person who is exploited as a result of drug addiction. They will not have the same needs or expectations as a minor victim or a victim of economic exploitation. For the Federal Centre for Migration, the conditions for accompanying victims should be assessed. Should these not be more dependent on the different profiles of these victims? Minister, even if I know that we have some budgetary constraints, could separate reception centres be established or could separate services be set up within these centres to allow for appropriate care? This seems to me to be relatively indispensable. The report also reports that some magistrates have suggested the creation of flying brigades of staff of the centres to assist victims who are too far from one of the three existing reception centres. Can you support this idea? This requires strengthening the capacity of reception centres. Do you intend to plead this with your colleagues despite the state of the Justice budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u13	Mr President, Mr Massin, as a reminder, since the policy of combating trafficking in human beings has developed in our country, the choice has been made to work with recognised specialist centres, which are three: the ASBL PAG-ASA in Brussels, the ASBL Payoke in Antwerp and the ASBL Sürya in Liège. These centres provide psychological, administrative, legal and social support to victims of human trafficking. To date, it is not in itself intended to set up new structures that are distinct from the profile of the victims. It is true that some victims of human trafficking have specific profiles or traumas that may require adaptations in the context of care. However, at the present time nothing precludes arrangements for the follow-up of victims according to their situation. First of all, for minor victims, accommodation will be carried out in centres which take care only of minors, either unaccompanied foreign minors or minors who are victims of trafficking. The administrative and legal follow-up of cases will, however, always be carried out by specialized reception centres. On the other hand, there is nothing to prevent specialist centres from having contacts with other actors in the voluntary sector if specific assistance is to be set up according to a particular situation. In general, it has not so far appeared necessary to fundamentally change the system. The various assessments carried out, either by the interdepartmental unit to combat trafficking in human beings or by the circular on the investigation and prosecution of trafficking in human beings, did not in any case point to any need. However, it is true that these evaluations focused rather on the application of the guidelines. I would also point out that there is an ongoing dialogue between the actors within the framework of the structures for coordinating the fight against trafficking in human beings, including the Federal Migration Centre, which is a member of the Centre. Of course, there is nothing to prevent this debate from evolving in the future. Specialized reception centres have also been formally integrated into the mechanism since September. The question of having people from reception centres present during certain control operations is well known. In practice, this is already done in some planned operations, but it is true that this depends on the availability of the centre staff, according to their obligations, and the place of control. Of course, the idea can be supported, but the means available will always have to be taken into account. A good training of front-line actors is important for this purpose. For example, new simplified tools are being prepared, such as fact sheets on the problem. In addition, a new action plan is being drafted and should be discussed within the interdepartmental coordination unit for combating trafficking in human beings. Different aspects of the problem are covered, including, of course, the protection of victims, their care by reception centres and means. I will communicate in good time on this issue, but the elements of the action plan must first be discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answer. I note that, as soon as the new action plan is in place, we will have an opportunity to discuss it. I can hear you on the subject of collaboration. I also support the effectiveness of measures and the use of public resources in the most effective and efficient way possible. However, collaboration must obviously take place on a voluntary basis. Sometimes we face a whole series of difficulties. I therefore believe that the establishment of protocols for cooperation brought to Parliament's attention is an interesting initiative. Of course, the policy must depend on the means allocated to it. However, in order to put an end to channels relating to trafficking in human beings, victims are often needed, because in general they are the witnesses. Therefore, the better they are taken care of, the better they are accompanied, including in all the elements that require accompaniment, or even care, the more useful and valuable information is available to put an end to all these channels, which are simply one of the tentacles of this octopus of organized crime. I would like, when this measure is presented to Parliament, to have a frank discussion on this new action plan and on how victims are taken care of in order to put an end to the channels of trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u15	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Terwingen and Mrs Lahaye-Battheu have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u16	Minister, we all know the problem of payment at Justice. It is a recurring problem, not a problem that has recently arisen. However, sometimes invoices are contested, and then the Court's fees committee must intervene, which can lead to delays in payment. My question is therefore rather about the functioning of the Court of First Instance's costs committee, which was set up by law of 27 December 2006. The Court of First Instance shall rule as an administrative court on appeals brought against decisions of the Court of Justice and the Minister of Justice concerning the amount of the judicial costs. This committee shall rule, inter alia, in disputes concerning the compensation granted in criminal matters to legal experts. The Minister of Justice, therefore, you, appoints the members of this committee for two years. I come to my questions, Minister. Firstly, can you confirm that the Court's costs committee is currently complete and effectively meets at regular intervals? If not, why is this, and what solutions do you see? What date will the current appointments take? Because I have seen today's Belgian Official Journal, I fear that my question is partly outdated, because a decision has just been published on this subject. Can you tell me if it's full composition? Secondly, the previous Minister stated on 28 January 2014 that the selection procedure for additional secretaries had started. What's the result of that? How many extra secretaries have been appointed? This part of my question has probably been resolved by now. Thirdly, how many files are currently waiting for the Committee to examine the costs of the Court of First Instance? What causes do you see for this? How can the delay be eliminated? Are there any data on the number of dossiers handled per year? What are the lead times? What's the main reason for the dispute? The next aspect of my question is about another problem. In the event of non-payment, it is found that the lawyer representing the Ministry of Justice is often of the opinion that the court would not have jurisdiction based on the existence of the Court's costs commission. In this way, a person who does not have a disputed invoice, but who has not been paid, may not be able to address a body where he can hear a right to speak about his problem. Finally, how do you intend to remedy this problem? What resources do you think are available to the service provider to enforce the payment by legal means? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u17	Mr President, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, the committee is not working in the facts as expected. The Dutch section of the committee is fully composed and has started examining the dossiers that were submitted to it. As you note, the ministerial decision to appoint the members of the French-speaking section of the Committee was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 26 November 2014. My predecessors have not been able to start the announced recruitment procedure for additional secretaries because of a recruitment stop that is still in force. The need for additional secretaries will need to be re-defined and confirmed in the staff plan to be drawn up for 2015. Although the examination of the files has started, no new final decisions have been taken since 2013. According to the figures submitted to me, the delay would still be the same as that reported to you by my predecessor on 19 February 2014. At that time there were 205 Dutch and 78 French-language files. Given that no final decisions have been taken for two years, it is difficult to answer the question of the average lead time. Nor has any further information been made available to me on the nature of the pending disputes. As regards more generally the possibility of appeal, decisions on whether or not to charge and budget court fees, following a preliminary ruling by the Constitutional Court and according to the caselaw of the Council of State, do not indeed have any appeal under the ordinary jurisdictions. Persons whose invoice remained unpaid but was not contested are initially invited to contact the Central Court Costs Office of the FPS, which, in turn, requests the claimant magistrates to provide a sound justification for the non-budget of the statement of costs. The decision shall be subject to an appeal to the Committee for the costs of the Court of First Instance. In the meantime, as already mentioned, the Dutch-speaking section of the committee is operational and the French-speaking section will soon be operational as well, after its publication today in the Belgian Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u18	We will, of course, continue to follow that up, Minister. I hope that you will be able to deal effectively with this delay, because I have been asking questions about this since January last year. If the committee is to work effectively soon, it will hopefully be able to change that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u19	Question 469 by Mr Terwingen has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u20	Mr President, Minister, my question may be a little simple. It's a question from practice. In prisons, the judicial welfare workers take part in the care and supervision of the prisoners. Apparently, these welfare workers are very often asked to print out legislation, including the basic legislation for prisoners. That question certainly comes back every time the prisoners find out via the media that something will change about the conditional release. The prisoners want to be able to check and verify whether or not these messages are correct. Instead of printing out that legislation by welfare workers, that legislation can be made accessible via the Internet or via the PCs available in the prison libraries, or access to the website of the Belgian State Gazette. I thought that certain websites, such as those of the VDAB, are already being accessed by prisoners to access them via PC. Is it possible, Minister, to create a practical solution? Of course, it remains necessary to secure the rest on computer and website access.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Becq, I am of course in favour, in principle, of the fact that prisoners can be informed of important legal texts applicable to the execution of the sentence, the provisional detention and their legal status as prisoners. In this sense, there have been several initiatives to make the relevant legal texts available in prison libraries. It is, of course, necessary that the most recent version is present. I will take another initiative to bring this principle back to the attention of the prisons where secure access to the Internet is possible. At present this is only possible in the prisons of Beveren and Leuze-en-Hainaut. We are also looking at the possibilities of organising this in the prison libraries. In addition, it remains important to provide additional explanations on the relevant legislative texts. In this sense, additional interpretation by prison directors, but also by professional aid workers and lawyers, is still important so that the inmate can ascertain what the general principles are and what they mean in concrete terms for his individual case. We would also like to point out that there are initiatives in a series of prisons to organise information sessions for prisoners. Such issues have already been regularly included in these programmes in the past. The possibilities of unlocking the legal texts through secure access to the Belgian Official Journal should be further explored with the competent services.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u22	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Minister, it is good that you draw attention once again to the information sessions, flyers and so on. Perhaps inmates would like to review the legislation in this area precisely in connection with these information meetings. It remains essential that the necessary framework is in place and clarified.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 5, by Mr Brotcorne and No 536 by Mr Brotcorne 555 Mrs De Wit are being postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 538 by Mrs De Wit is also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u24	In the meantime, Minister, it may be less topical, but a few weeks ago we were once again shocked by a number of scandals, in particular in the diocese of Bruges, in Middelkerke. Someone who came into confession six years ago for paedophile facts and was recently restored by the diocese went to work in three churches. I will spare you the explanation because I believe that we have all read it. In the aftermath of that case the scandal of Hooglede was raised again in which a fifty-year-old priest would have raped a 17-year-old boy for a long time. The facts date back to 2002, when the man was a pastor in Menen, and only came to light last year. All this time, he's been in office as a pastor. In the meantime, he's been suspended preventively. On 15 November, we read in the press that the diocese of Bruges faced a third case of paedophilia in a short time. In this way, the abuse in the Church has been brought back into the current state of affairs. The Committee on Sexual Abuse in the Church met on 12 November last. I have followed it from afar, and I have always had the impression that this committee has done an excellent job. Very good agreements were made between the Committee and the Church. Yet it is clearly going wrong again. One may therefore wonder whether the diocese of Bruges and the Church in general have learned something from the past. We also scheduled hearings for this committee on 12 November. I am very curious about the reaction of the Church in general but also about the three cases cited. In accordance with the various recommendations made by the Special Committee on the Treatment of Sexual Abuse and Facts of Pedophilia within an Authority Relationship, in particular within the Church, in its final report of 31 May 2011, the legislator has developed a whole package of measures. For example, the limitation period from 10 to 15 years was increased. We ourselves were in favour of abolishing this limitation period or we wanted to set a period that was still a lot longer. Minister, I have a few questions for you. What is the reaction of the new Minister of Justice to these incidents? I believe it is time to renew the agreements between the Committee and the Church, the dioceses. I suppose this will take place when the Committee on Sexual Abuse meets again regularly. However, I wonder whether the Minister himself can take more action in this respect than has been the case so far by the government. What is your position with regard to the lifting of the limitation period for sexual offences against minors, which means that these crimes can no longer be allowed to lapse?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, as I pointed out in plenary last week, it is absolutely moral to reject the facts of sexual abuse and require a firm approach and, where possible, punishment. This is much more the case when such acts are committed on a minor. Sexual abuse cannot under any circumstances be tolerated in our society and Justice plays a crucial role in this. In this sense, I am pleased that the mechanism, which was put into effect in the framework of the work of the Special Committee on the treatment of sexual abuse and facts of paedophilia within a relationship of authority, in particular within the Church, has worked effectively for the reporting of such facts by the ecclesiastical authorities to the parish. The facts in the Hooglede file are the subject of an ongoing investigation and I have confidence in the further handling of the file by the public prosecutor. As regards the agreement between the Committee and the Church, I refer again to the work of that committee, particularly on page 399. Unfortunately, as far as the facts are concerned, there is nothing more that the Justice Department can do for the victims. Therefore, on a proposal from the Committee, the Centre for Arbitration on Sexual Abuse was established, in which multi-disciplinary arbitration proceedings are accessible to victims of statute of limitations of sexual abuse and who ask for recognition of the suffering suffered and/or for financial compensation. The centre has been operational since 1 March 2012. You can find the annual reports for 2012 and 2013 on the center's website. As regards the handling of other issues, some of the recommendations of the Special Committee were already reflected in the 2011 report. Work will continue in this area. As you yourself say, the committee must play its role in this and, where necessary, evaluate the implementation of the agreements. In any case, we must work on the full implementation of the policy outlined by the committee. Furthermore, I will pay particular attention to respect for the physical integrity and rights of women, children and other vulnerable persons within criminal policy and the comprehensive security policy. Justice will actively contribute to reducing and addressing all forms of violence, where sexual violence and rape constitute key policy priorities. I believe that the already existing multidisciplinary consultative bodies and action plans are the appropriate policy framework to shape them. I refer, among other things, to the National Action Plan on Partner Violence, along the Flemish side, to the Protocol on Child Abuse, Justice, Welfare and Police, and along the French-speaking side to the Protocol on Drug Intervention entre le secteur médico-psycho-social et le secteur judiciaire. These consultation forums closely follow the recommendations of the Special Committee on Chambers. As regards the limitation period, it was agreed within the government to extend it from 15 to 20 years in respect of crimes committed against the person of a minor which are not to be corrected. That will be implemented soon. On the other hand, there are practical objections to proof of the facts and legal certainty for the parties. Here, an intervention by the ecclesiastical authority leading to the recognition of the facts after the expiry of the time limit, where appropriate, and compensation, offers more opportunities for victims to still see their suffering mitigated.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u26	Minister, I am particularly pleased that you regard this whole issue as a top priority, as I do. I do not agree with you on the limitation period: as far as we are concerned, it would be quite as long as possible. I follow what you said at the end: in the Committee against Sexual Abuse, in consultation with the Church, we must continue to work on a better follow-up by the Church when the facts are time-barred, so that things such as the newly proven would really become a thing of the past. We are following this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u27	Mr Minister, I tabled this question just after the interruption of work, on 14 November, of the interpreters working for the Justice Department. They held a protest against a known problem of late payment. In the meantime, you have had a meeting with the interpreters in your cabinet. I have the following questions. What are the results of the consultation? Which interest groups have you met? What promises have you made? What actions will you take? In the meantime, a number of things have already been published about this and the press. That is why I would like to follow up on a few more questions. We all know that there is a very large late payment for different categories of people working for the Justice Department. How will you proceed for the payout? Will you pay the oldest invoices first or will you take out certain groups and pay them first? I have also read in the press that you will consult with the Minister for Health, Mrs De Block, on the possibility of including doctors in the Health Department. Have you achieved any results? Is there anything else you can tell me about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u28	Minister, some translators and interpreters working for justice have been out of pay for months. This situation becomes untenable. Here are my four questions. How much exactly is the backlog of invoices not paid by Justice to the latter? What parts of your action plan have already been implemented to liquidate these invoices? What conclusions do you draw from your meeting with the representatives of the translators and interpreters? What avenues do you envisage in order to prevent such a situation from occurring?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u29	I'll start with a caveat. The last state of affairs will be communicated to you at the committee on 3 December, where the budget will be discussed next week. The substantive discussions with the Minister for Health will take place over the next few weeks, as I have just agreed with Mrs De Block. We will see if this can have an effect for 2014. I will give you the latest state of play on this matter next week. That was not in your written question, but I answered it orally. The professional category of translators-interpreters is important because of the expertise that our courts can rely on. In preparation for the meeting on 17 November, my administration indicated that 15.5 million euros of invoices had already been paid to them in 2014 and that we still have 1.8 million euros of invoices that are known to the FPS Justice Department. As our colleagues point out, we are facing serious problems. I understand the concern of both translators and interpreters and of my services. However, let us not make amalgams. It should be recalled that unpaid invoices would amount to around €136 million. What interests our colleagues here is part of that amount. In order to highlight the scale and nature of the problem, I should like to make a few more points. It is only about the costs that are centrally known and which are actually reflected in the central accounting system. In this system a distinction is made according to whether the payments are made centrally or via commissions at the various Registrys. In concrete terms, 7 582 invoices are open for an amount of EUR 1.3 million. The remaining outstanding amounts of EUR 0,5 million are part of the fees at the Registry. Half of these outstanding invoices are over three months old. The average amount per invoice is 175 euros. To be even more precise, I have to report differences between the types of invoices. On the basis of the figures submitted to us, delays in payment would be greater for interpreters than for translators. While one third of translators' invoices would be more than three months late, half of the interpreters' invoices would be too late. The first thing to do is to narrow down the problems. We have indeed started negotiations between the staff of the Justice and Budget. The negotiations concern both the guarantee of continuation of payments through the release of appropriations and more structural measures to monitor and monitor these costs. I can add that these negotiations are conducted in complete serenity and mutual understanding. It is only through constructive dialogue that durable solutions are possible. On the concrete lines of action, I can tell you the following. On 17 November a state of payments was made to the professional associations. The difficulties and possible solutions have been discussed in order to speed up the removal of the loopholes. On Thursday, 20 November, the SPF Justice obtained the release of an additional tranche of appropriations. These will be redistributed to deficit budget items, including justice costs. Pistes were also discussed for the development of a workable VAT regime, in consultation with the Minister of Finance, to bridge the situation created by the backlog. Cooperation has been promised for administrative simplification by regrouping the number of invoices per performance delivered. The work on the statute of the profession is continuing and, first of all, it has been commissioned to finally publish Mr Becq's law on the registers of interpreters and to prepare the corresponding implementing decisions. Consultations have been undertaken to involve all relevant actors in the preparation of an updated tariff structure within a very short period of time. I have also asked the professional associations concerned to provide me with useful tips to improve their working conditions in interpreting and translating. As has already been said, payments will continue in full and will be accelerated by the end of the year as a function of the funds to be released. Unfortunately, if there are payment difficulties, this is not only a budgetary problem but also an organisational problem. It is not enough, therefore, to find the resources; it is also necessary to make a structural improvement in the accounting system. Indeed, while it is difficult to identify the necessary resources, it is even more difficult to develop durable solutions designed to avoid subsequent slippages.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u30	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. We will, of course, return to the budget debate next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Penris's 547 is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 568 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 596 by Mrs De Wit is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 5, by Mrs De Wit and No 597 598 by Mr Lachaert were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u32	Mr President, Minister, in an old recommendation of 22 September 2011, the Supreme Court of Justice sheds light on Article 792 of the Judicial Code. That Article provides that "the Registrar shall send an unsigned copy of the judgment to each party or, where appropriate, to their lawyers, within eight days of the judgment being delivered by ordinary letter.' The United Consultative and Investigation Committee of the Supreme Court of Justice considers that, in accordance with Article 792, any person seeking justice must be in possession of the judgment which concerns him, in all matters, whether or not he is assisted by a lawyer or whether or not he is in conflict. According to the Committee, this legal text should not be restricted by relying on the successive circulars of 1968, 1971 and 1973. These letters eased Article 792 for budgetary and work organizational reasons at the Registrys. The first circular restricts the application of Article 792 of the Court's Rules of Procedure because it states that the article should not be applied in the event of the judgment of the peace court by default or judgment at the hearing. The subsequent circulars also apply Article 792 to the courts of appeal, the labour courts, the courts of first instance and the labour courts. In conjunction with the first letter, this means that the judgment or judgment will no longer be sent free of charge if the judgment was given in court or in absentia. In the light of the early 1970s, when judgments were often written by hand and the quality and even existence of good copying machines could be questioned, these letters may still have some use. However, we are now in 2014, an era in which making a paper copy is no longer an insurmountable problem or should be, and is no longer time-consuming, and I am not talking about the ease of an electronic copy, not only in terms of making it, but also in terms of sending it. I have also asked a number of questions about this to your predecessor. I then asked if these letters would be withdrawn. So my question is now, have they been withdrawn in the meantime? What intentions do you have in this area? Can this article also be extended to criminal matters? Your predecessor Stefaan De Clerck stated that one of the problems was that it was not an authentic electronic source of all lawyers. I do not think that the OVB has been idle in that area, perhaps you can say a little more about that. What's the status? And are there or aren't there any bottlenecks?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u33	Mr President, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, you have understood from my statement of policy that it is my ambition to turn this legislature into a legal system adapted to this century. I share your view that the context for a period that is 40 years behind us has changed considerably. It is my ambition to ensure that, within a reasonable period of time, the decisions of courts and courts are communicated to the seekers and their lawyers. The use of ICT resources can make this possible. You are right to point out that my predecessor Stefaan De Clerck pointed out in 2011 that a first condition is that the counters have electronic authentic sources to enable this. His message has not fallen into deaf ears, because the contacts that my cabinet has had have shown that the Order of Flemish Balies has entered the electronic highway and has created an electronic authentic source. Now the connection with the Justice Department must be made by means of a so-called service bus. The creation of such a service bus is part of JustX and is one of the priority projects of our staff. In the meantime, I have already learned not to announce premature deadlines for the realisation of ICT projects. Once they're realized, I'll communicate about it. However, you will be aware that both the Order of Flemish Bailiffs and the Order of Barreux francophones and germanophone and our ICT staff are doing everything in their power to realise the project. After all, it adds value to all parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u34	Minister, I am pleased that you will be committed to the project and that you will strive to achieve results. Do I understand correctly that the letters have been withdrawn, or are they still in force? I didn't quite hear that in the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u35	The answer to that must remain to you. I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic028x.u36	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 505, by Mr Georges Gilkinet: Question No 5, by Mr Benoît Hellings 584 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin have been withdrawn.
