ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic030x.u1	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have not only decided with this government to save money and to levy additional taxes, you also had a fiscal gift in store: raising the cost of the work, where the employees and the officials who do not prove their professional costs would remain net. In your government statement of 14 October, in the hemisphere of this Parliament, you literally said that this measure would amount to an annual average of EUR 250 extra per taxpayer from 2015. In order to implement this measure, some EUR 900 million had to be budgeted, but the budget, which is currently under discussion, shows that only half of that EUR 900 million was foreseen for this measure. Last week I questioned the Finance Minister about this, admitting that it will be only half, or on average about EUR 125 net per taxpayer. This amounts to just over 10 euros a month. For most taxpayers, this will not offset the impact of the index jump. My question to you, Prime Minister, is about the communication of this measure. I do not understand why you say on 14 October that this measure will take full effect from 2015 when a draft budget is submitted to Europe on the day after that, which shows that it is only half. What's the reason for this miscommunication? Why wasn't that wrong information corrected, because in the meantime the Minister of Finance also admitted that it was a mistake?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic030x.u2	Mr President, during the general policy statement, which was presented in the Chamber on 14 October last, I did indeed say: "In addition, we will increase the flat-rate deduction from 2015 to increase the purchasing power of the workers by an average of EUR 250 per year and per taxable person." Together with this statement, a multi-annual budget table was presented to you in the margins of the debates and openly. This table clearly shows that the application of this measure has been spread over two years, with a total of 450 million in 2015 and a further 450 million in 2016, with a total of 900 million from 2016. The table was also forwarded to the European Commission, so during the debates the situation was immediately very clear in this respect. Therefore, when I speak of an objective EUR 250 per year, this amount can only be interpreted if the amount corresponding to the impact of the measure on cruising speed, i.e. from 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic030x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it is a cumbersome wording. The debate was conducted openly, I remember very well that at that time it required some pressure before we got the budgetary tables in our hands, and then we got 15 minutes to study them all. Prime Minister, a woman who has been warned is worth at least two. I know from now on that, when you announce a measure and you mention a year on which it will enter into force, that measure will not be necessary at cruising speed in that year but will be spread over the rest of the legislature. In future, therefore, we will always ask what you mean by "from that year onwards" and what the effects are in that year, because that is at least unclear.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic030x.u4	Prime Minister, this 4th November, you received on your official visit the President of Colombia, Juan Manuel Santos, to discuss the relations and cooperation between Belgium and Colombia and the progress of the negotiation process with the FARC. This process is now suspended following the abduction of General Alzate and four other soldiers. Despite the hopes raised by the peace negotiations, several NGOs, including Amnesty International, recall that there are still human rights violations in Colombia. More than 70 human rights defenders were murdered in 2013, and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights registered more than 40 in 2014. In this context, I would have liked to ask you, Prime Minister, the following questions. Did you discuss the human rights situation in Colombia during this interview? What about the key issue of combating impunity for crimes committed since 1985, the vast majority of which have remained unpunished to date? What about the murders of human rights defenders, extrajudicial executions, and the effective non-demobilization of paramilitary groups? How does the Colombian State intend to act against these killings and other intimidations? What about the difficult and very slow implementation of the Law on Victims and Land Restitution, adopted in 2011 with the support of the European Union? Finally, how do Belgium and the EU intend to position themselves in economic relations with that country in the light of this situation and the social and environmental standards that must be effective and binding?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic030x.u5	Mr President, on 4 November I met President Santos on a European tour to present the progress of the negotiations in Colombia and also to ask the European Union and a number of countries, including Belgium, for support in the implementation of peace efforts in his country. As you know – and you have mentioned – President Santos has started negotiations with the rebel movements of the FARC and the ELN movement in Havana, with the logistical assistance of the Cuban government, in order to arrive at a comprehensive solution to the internal armed conflict in order to significantly improve the living conditions of the Colombian population. The issue of crimes committed during this period by all armed groups is, of course, a subject for discussion at the present time. President Santos has taken a series of steps – he told me – to try to improve the human rights situation in his country. Their implementation has begun. But he himself acknowledges that this implementation must continue on a larger scale and that efforts must be stepped up on this subject. He was extremely frank about that concern. He described the progress made so far in improving the human rights situation and acknowledged that work remained important in that regard. This human rights situation is, I believe, intrinsically linked to the peace process. As much as progress can be made despite the current difficulties you have mentioned, as much as there will be the possibility of a lasting improvement in the human rights situation. Finally, I would also like to make the link with the economic and social situation. As much as there will be the capacity to improve the economic environment with a peace process, as much as there will be the opportunity to strengthen and improve the human rights situation. Both the European Union and Belgium have assured President Santos of their support to ensure that all the solutions which are in line with the country's pacification and also with its economic and social recovery can be encouraged. You also know that a few weeks ago an economic mission was carried out by Belgium with a large number of entrepreneurs who were present in Belgium and who develop economic and commercial relations for the benefit of both countries, including in the economic interest of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic030x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that efforts are being made by Mr. Santos within his country to facilitate the peace process and to take measures to resolve human rights problems. Would it be possible to obtain more details on the elements that Mr Santos highlighted during your meeting and to know what concrete measures he had implemented in his country? I would also like to draw attention once again to the issue of social, human and environmental rights. I know that a free trade agreement is on the table and that your government is willing to support and sign it. For me, the issue of human rights remains problematic. I understand that for you, facilitating trade will be a form of response to this problem, but I am very afraid that signing such agreements without strict and firm assurances that the efforts will be made will give a clear impetus to the ongoing actions in this country. I call on you to be vigilant and hope to be able to obtain more details on the measures implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic030x.u7	Mr Geerts is not here. I shall therefore apply Rule 127 (10) of the Rules of Procedure: 392 by Mr Geerts has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic030x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, there is a royal decree that allows ex-Ministers to use two full-time staff for the remainder of the term of office. They still have those staff at their disposal throughout the next parliamentary term. My good colleague Tom Van Grieken asked the question in the Flemish Parliament, where there is a similar arrangement. Everyone has read that two former ministers are using the scheme and that this costs around EUR 500 000 per year in these times of savings, EUR 2.5 million throughout the legislative period. That is why I am asking my question, because the regulation also exists in this House. Is this scheme currently being used at federal level? If so, which ex-Ministers and ex-Secretary of State make use of this? If this is the case, what are the total costs? I questioned the Minister of Civil Service on the matter at the time. She then informed me that an additional EUR 95 719 credit was available per predecessor. Is that still the case? What are the costs of that? Finally, one final specific question. Prime Minister Bourgeois has already indicated that the Flemish Government will study the scheme here on the other side. Will the royal decree be amended? Are initiatives being taken to abolish such a scheme in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic030x.u9	Mr President, all former members of the federal government have applied for full or partial use of two full-time employees. So far, we have only granted with certainty the percentage of full-time equivalent employment for the former ministers listed below: 0.5 FTEs for Prime Minister Di Rupo, 1.16 FTEs for former Minister Vande Lanotte and 0.7 FTEs for former Secretary of State Crombez. If all former government members make use of the scheme, it will cost around EUR 1.2 million per year. Twelve people could potentially make use of this. In 2011, Prime Minister Leterme's cabinet had drawn up a note proposing to retain the possibility of having two FTE staff during a term of office for the former Prime Minister. On the other hand, the duration of employment was reduced to one year for ministers who had exercised their ministerial functions for less than one year, to two years for ministers who had exercised their ministerial functions for a period of one to two years and to four years for ministers who had exercised their ministerial functions for at least three years. This proposal was submitted to the Di Rupo cabinet and then rejected. Moreover, this proposal was formulated in the context of the political crisis of 2010-2011. A large number of ministers succeeded each other for a period of time shorter than the duration of a full legislature. No proposals in this sense are currently being examined, which is not in our coalition agreement. However, I would point out that the former members of the federal government are free to make use or not of the possibility of retaining two FTE staff for the entire duration of the legislature and thus to use the budget envelope. However, I am prepared as Prime Minister to examine these proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic030x.u10	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the answer. If I see who is already using it, I am not surprised that this internal note was not adopted during the previous legislature. I'm glad you're going to study it. I hope that another proposal will come as soon as possible and that it will go a little further than the measures you proposed in the internal note. I very much regret that this is still being used so much in these saving times.
