ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u1	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, I am glad to be able to ask you my first question. You'll see, I've got a lot and a lot. This one's important. I would like to take stock with you of the organization of the work of rescue centre 112 in Liège. Since the German-speaking Community is part of the province of Liège, German-speaking citizens also make use of the rescue services which come under this centre. It would seem logical that this bilingual situation in the province of Liège should be taken into account. However, the current organisation of work is based more on the requirements of the Working Time Regulation (RTT) in the emergency call centres than on operational considerations, in line with the reality of the field. As a result, many guards are carried out without German-speaking staff, which is clearly a failure in terms of aid to the population, in this case for German-speaking people. Real problems have already arisen in this regard; this was reported six or seven months ago. Those calling 112 could not speak in their own language because the person receiving the call did not have sufficient knowledge. I know this problem, I've already told your predecessor. Mr Minister, should we not adapt the organisation of work in this rescue centre so that its tasks are carried out effectively in both French and German? What would be your way of responding to this challenge? To this end, could an adaptation of the TDR to bilingualism be considered? In order to optimize recruitment within the centre, would it not be appropriate to organise examinations for German speakers with a knowledge of French in addition to those already available for French speakers with a knowledge of the German language? For the same purpose, could the possibility of applying at level D be considered by adding in parallel the criterion of field experience in the profile sought, which is crucial for the proper functioning of the service?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u2	Mrs Jadin, to be very honest, the question I have received is very different from the one you have just addressed. The written question was indeed very brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u3	This one was repositioned last week. It's wider, but it's about the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u4	I therefore propose to give the answers in my possession and to complete it next week. You will admit that I am quite sensitive to the problem that you have just mentioned. I can answer two questions. Is it planned to recruit at least one team leader with a command of the French language and the German language? Will the test be available in German? A selection procedure for accession at level B is planned via the Selor to officially set up team leaders. Statutory persons who currently hold this position or who do not hold it will be able to defend, in a relevant way, their candidature on this occasion. Currently, the rescue centre 100/112 in Liège has four bilingual French/German statutory operators, including a team leader. However, my services cannot predict good results that will be achieved by the latter. The selection for level B accession to allow for the official establishment of team leaders is organised in French and Dutch. The linguistic role in which people are engaged is either the French-speaking role or the Dutch-speaking role. There is no German linguistic role. It is therefore impossible to recruit a team leader via a German-language test. That being so, as I said, the question that you asked raises a problem that is of great interest to me. In fact, this problem arises for the periphery of Brussels, except in this case for persons belonging to the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking roles. I assure you, therefore, that we will examine what can be done under the legislation in force today. Indeed, as you know, at the request of your party, there is no question of addressing community issues. However, I repeat that, in the current legislative framework, we will examine what can be done or not, the problem being very real.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u5	Minister, thank you for your answer. There is no reason to make this issue a Community issue. However, this is about the effectiveness of the service, which is important. On the other hand, I understand that the Internal FPS has engaged in recruitments in order to guarantee a better operability of this service, particularly for German-speaking citizens. However, I understand that, unfortunately, quotas at the staff level could not be met. I therefore insist that this be done quickly enough to avoid situations that could prove dramatic.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u6	Mr. Chairman, Minister, we were very surprised to learn that 6,000 Smith & Wesson pistols were recalled by the federal police because they had a technical defect that could endanger the security of the police. This announcement complements a very bleak picture with regard to the management of this procurement by the federal police. Many commentators had first pointed to the economic absurdity of awarding such a large market (€4 million) to an American firm when a national company could handle it, to the satisfaction of all our police services. On the other hand, and more importantly, the press then reported a corruption problem. This fear came to light in September 2013 when investigating judge Van Espen decided to charge three people, including the head of the Federal Police Procurement Department, with false charges, forgery, corruption and breach of public procurement. However, we must always respect the presumption of innocence here. Today, we are told that these weapons, acquired outside of any economic logic and, perhaps, irregularly, endanger the safety of staff and citizens! Minister, can you describe very precisely the technical defect found and its impact on safety? Is there a link to the double-action system, put forward at the time of award of the contract? What measures are being taken to address the problem? What are the additional costs? What would be the consequences on the validity of the contract if there were to be a conviction in the corruption case raised? Should we start over?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u7	Mr President, Mr Demeyer, I did not know that to become Minister of the Interior, we had to be an engineer and a specialist in weapons!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u8	Minister, these are questions that the police are asking themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u9	You asked me to describe very precisely the technical flaw, what I'm going to do. I have thus learned many new words in French such as striker, slagpin in Dutch. Two security issues were identified. The first concerns the safety of the impactor or, more specifically, the metal cup that maintains the safety spring. In some cases, this may lead to a deformation of the spring leading to the impossibility of burning. The second problem concerns the target organs, both the focus and the handlebars. Federal police gunners performed tests. It turns out that the weapon remains functional without these target organs. However, the displacement of the target organs may mislead the police officer as to the accuracy of his or her shot. It's not nothing! You ask if there is a link to the double-action system. There is no link between the problems identified and a dual-action mechanism. What measures have been taken? Following the detection of these two problems and as a precautionary measure, the Federal Police Steering Committee decided to proceed with the systematic replacement of the cups and the verification, or even replacement in case of defect, of each target body on all such weapons in circulation within the Federal Police. In addition, the latter lodged a security appeal with the contracting firm to obtain the parts to be replaced. Police gunners were able to initiate appropriate modifications and verifications on the in-stock pistols. In order of priority, depending on the function of the federal police officer and his use of his weapon, the weapons were collected to be brought to Brussels where the only machine made available to carry out the necessary checks is located. In order to avoid the need for federal police officers to dispense with their weapons, a standard exchange was conducted during the handing over of the weapon to be reviewed. The weapons handed over to the staff during this exchange have been previously revised by the federal police armors and are therefore in order; we are sure of this. As the replacement parts and the machine for testing the target organ have been provided by the successful tenderer in the context of the guarantee call, the additional costs incurred relate only to the full-time equivalents which it will have been necessary to mobilise for the collection, delivery and revision of weapons (the personnel cost). These additional costs have been requested but have not yet been calculated. What will be the consequences for the validity of the market? Article 21, § 4, 5 of the general specification allows the contracting authority to terminate a contract in the event of the successful tenderer being convicted of certain offences, including the corruption of officials. But this is a possibility of termination, not an obligation. Before using it, a balance of interest will have to be made. The contract in question also provides for the delivery of spare parts for a period of 15 years, as well as various accessories and trainings for a period of 10 years. Furthermore, if the federal police were to terminate the contract, they would be forced to launch a new contract to equip the integrated police. As you know, the purchase of another gun model could create problems with equipment uniformity, both in training and in the use of weapons, resulting in an increased risk of accidents. But wait for the outcome of the judicial proceedings. Then we will act properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u10	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u11	Mr President, I also have a third question. I would like to ask both you and the committee to be able to put it in the wake of this question. This is the item under agenda item 27.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u12	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u13	Thank you. I would like to ask the minister about football and, more specifically, about a meeting between the Standard and Feyenoord in connection with the Europa League on 2 October. It was the scene of regrettable clashes between supporters of the two teams, but also between supporters of Liège and Dutch law enforcement. The attitude of a core of Standard supporters, who forced the grids to provoke the opposing supporters in the buffer zone, is to be condemned without any ambiguity. Beyond that, serious questions are asked about the attitude of the local police before and after the game. We have testimonies, corroborated by the standard stewards, the city of Liège's coach fans and several videos, of supporters who have been beaten by the police or bit by dogs before the game and outside the stadium. In the press, one person said that he had been bitten in his arm and thigh by a dog without muzzle as soon as he arrived on a bus and that he had not done anything wrong. This person was then taken to a police suit and then to the hospital for more than two hours. She filed a complaint as a result of these events. After the meeting, the Belgian supporters were locked for an hour in the gallery and once the doors were opened, shaken by the law enforcement forces, apparently without discernment. In the stories of the supporters, there is talk of fierceness. They ask the authorities, not only the mayor but also the government. My question, Minister, is the following. Through the Football Cell, Belgium has established international contacts, in particular with the Netherlands, to develop bilateral cooperation agreements or exchange best practices. What follow-up has been done at this level to obtain explanations and prevent the recurrence of such incidents? What work has been undertaken by the Football Cell to guide supporters who, if necessary, would like to obtain redress?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u14	Mr Demeyer, there are regular exchanges of good practice between the Internal SPF Football Cell and its counterpart in the Netherlands regarding security around football matches. However, these exchanges are not necessarily linked to police and operational cooperation for a specific match. With regard to police cooperation and football incidents, the exchange of information always takes place through the national points of football information at the police level, namely the "SIF", the federal police of "Integral Football Security" – "Voetbalcel", for Belgium and the "CIV", "Centraal Invalspunt Voetbalvandalisme" for the Netherlands. For the meeting of 2 October 2014 between the Feyenoord Rotterdam and the Standard of Liège, information exchanges took place both before and after the meeting. The same will apply to the preparation of the return game that has yet to take place. It is not for the Minister of the Interior to decide on the operation of foreign police services or to evaluate them. If there is a problem with foreign police services, there are procedures that must be followed. In order to comply with these procedures and at the request of the head of security of the Standard of Liège, contacts have been made by the Football Cell, both with the CIV and with the Rotterdam police in order to know the steps to be taken by the supporters who wish to lodge a complaint. This explanation was transmitted by the Football Cell of the Internal SPF, both in Dutch and French, to the security officials of the Standard of Liège and for information also to the police zone of Liège. All of this information has also been communicated to the leaders of the Association des supporters de la famille des Rouches. From the last contacts with the Rotterdam police, it appears that to date, two supporters have filed a complaint.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u15	I thank the Minister for his answer. Maybe I'll ask him again when the game returns.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u16	Mr President, I would just like to say a few words about Question No 5, by Mr Beazley, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. 27 on our agenda. In my reply, I refer to the answer I will give to Mrs Temmerman. However, the answer is in Dutch. The answer will therefore be given in Dutch.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u17	I don't have a problem with that, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u18	Mr President, Minister, this is a matter of principle. Although it concerns the Pilgrimage of the Yser here, it may extend to the whole Kingdom. The commemoration of the Battle of the Yser in Nieuport and Ypres on Tuesday, October 28, was an important event, but it was also the first time that the security of an official demonstration was ensured not only by the police, but also by private guard companies. We are already in the midst of a debate on the privatization of security. I would therefore like to link this issue to the debate we held during the government installation session and the vote of confidence. A director of a guard company congratulated the press on this "first" in which 45 security officers and mobile cameras were provided by the private sector to ensure the security of dozens of heads of state and government, including German Chancellor Angela Merkel. In the meantime, this director calls for a revision of the legal texts which, according to his remarks, allow "to fulfil eight types of tasks which concern only companies and citizens, not the authorities", according to the article of L'Écho of 25 October last. Here are my questions, Minister. On what legal basis did the protection of personalities take place on the occasion of the commemoration of the Battle of the Yser? What is the cost of the contract? Finally, with regard to the protection of the authorities, are further collaborations with the caretaker sector in preparation for the coming months? If so, which missions and for what type of missions?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u19	Mr President, as I said, my answers to the global debate on the privatisation of the sector or its prohibition will be discussed at a later stage. In fact, I will explain the method that we will apply: the decision will only be taken after an investigation. This is the whole debate about the key tasks of the police. We have established a methodology for this and will follow it. As long as it is not adapted, the current legislation remains in place and will have to be respected. This was the case in Nieuport and Ypres. As I understood it, because it was at the very beginning of my ministry, we did not give key tasks to the private company, whose building was located on the ground. This had an important advantage, because normally the crisis center is in a communal building. But there, as the building was on the ground, it brought a significant advantage. This company was able to capture images. The management was with the police. The police were around the field. The control, namely the decision of the images to be taken, and their interpretation, was in the hands of the police. Only the cameras were used by the people of the private company. We have certainly remained within the current legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u21	The problem is well known, Minister. There have been many actions as a result of a judgment of the Constitutional Court. You have already answered a question by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu in plenary. At that time, I happen to suspect, you announced that you would have a meeting with the police unions this morning. What's the status? You have already said that you hoped to be able to land by the end of this year. Are the conversations going smoothly? Is there any light in the tunnel yet? Has there been any reassurance for the policemen who are now at the end of their careers? They are particularly concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u22	Thank you, Mr Vanvelthoven, for your question. The question cannot be more topical, because we completed our discussions this afternoon around 12.30 p.m. So this is information hot from the needle. We had the first meeting today. The government has proposed to the trade unions a working method, a calendar and topics that could be part of the negotiations. In doing so, the government has committed itself to doing everything it can to land on this dossier by mid-December. So that's just over a month from now. We have also indicated what we consider to be the elements of the debate. As a method, we have proposed that, on the basis of an agenda agreed this morning, a technical working group which would be working together with the trade unions, and that we should meet again on 26 November in order to take stock of the results and hopefully make decisions on the various points. What were the themes there? I will not go into detail, but it was on the one hand about the period in which people are eligible to benefit from this scheme. The coalition agreement makes some interpretation of that. It can be said that it is really about the day of the judgment, or it can be said that whoever comes on the day of the judgment has a year more play. That's one element of it. There is also the problem of the 53 years. That limit is very arbitrary. A person who is 52 years, 11 months and 29 days old is no longer eligible. Someone born two days later, yes. We have therefore put this on the table, as well as a number of other points. The trade unions themselves have added a few points to that. We have declared our agreement that the working party will be working on this on Friday. Allow me not to go into detail about the work. We are talking about the short term. There are agreements on the calendar and there are agreements on the points that will be negotiated. The four trade unions concerned have accepted this and will work within this scheme.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u23	Minister, it is, of course, excellent that this issue should be dealt with quickly. I hope there will be results soon. Is there a deadline? I don't mean one you've imposed on yourself, but from the outside?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u24	Not directly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u26	Mr President, Minister, I have already mentioned this briefly in the debate on the government statement. This is very close to my heart and that has to do with my personal experience of Sierre's bus accident. What struck me in the aftermath of this accident is that we are afraid to learn too little from such crises. I think this is important because we have to get rid of the fetish that we always have to look for a culprit. This is, of course, part of the processing process. If there are culprits, the Justice Department should be looking for those guilty. It is also important that, apart from the legal question of guilt, we try to find out what could have been better. Are there any good examples that will ensure that the same mistakes are not made in the event of a similar crisis? I've been looking into that in the wake of the bus accident. Slightly to my surprise it appears that the Netherlands has an independent research council with far-reaching powers. From day 1 onwards, they will be able to conduct the research on the ground and obtain the necessary documents without damaging the legal investigation. Nor is the opposite possible. In Belgium, an independent investigation can only be carried out after the legal investigation has been concluded. In the Netherlands there is a great deal to be done in this area. I also went to the Netherlands and I was told that in 2010 they had already participated in an assignment by the then Minister of the Interior, Annemie Turtelboom, at the Leuven Institute of Criminology, attached to the KU Leuven, to investigate whether such an independent research council could be useful in Belgium. That research of the Leuven Institute of Criminology was completed in November 2011. They have written a very substantial 240-page report on this subject, which was handed over to the Minister for the Interior. I've questioned your predecessor several times about that. It has left some room for manoeuvre, but at the end of the day little has come of it. I know that there will soon be another day of study on this subject, arising from scientific research. There will also be several people involved in crisis management. From that angle, the question remains that Belgium would not be a copy of the Netherlands, but would go to an independent investigative body to learn from the mistakes of the past and not to make them again. I surprised you a bit in plenary. I can understand why you didn't know everything at the time. In the meantime, I hope you've been able to look through the report. Minister, I have a number of questions. Are you prepared to publish the report of the Leuven Institute of Criminology on the opportunity and modalities of setting up an independent safety research council in Belgium? I've been able to read it, but it still hasn't been made public. Are you prepared to set up such an independent Security Research Council in Belgium? Are you prepared to grant the independent investigative body the necessary legal powers to conduct independent investigations?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u27	Mr Vanvelthoven, you are indeed very well placed to keep this issue alive until a solution arrives. You surprised me in plenary. Such an approach seemed so obvious to me that it is strange that it has not yet been settled. The final report of the study of KU Leuven was delivered to the provincial governors as early as spring 2013. In addition, the comprehensive research report has been publicly available for some time on the website of the Crisis Centre and, following the planned study day of the KU Leuven, it has been distributed through the IBZ Security newsletter, including to the mayors and the Chiefs of Staff. I can also confirm that someone from my cabinet will be present on the study day. The creation of an independent Security Research Council in Belgium can bring added value. Before this body can take up its duties, the working methods and the limitation with the legal investigation should be clearly defined. So there is still some legal and legal work to be done. The further deepening of the research results is necessary. In this light, I look forward to the planned publication of the KU Leuven which will provide possible ideas for the legal framework. Specialists will help us do that. Only afterwards will it be possible to weigh the benefits and costs of the creation against each other and to determine how lessons learned from the emergency situations can be organised most efficiently. We want to wait and see what it can do in practice. The further deepening of the research results and the possible ideas from the planned publications will identify the partners best involved in defining the working methods and the possible costs and benefits of such a research body. At the moment, therefore, it would be premature for me to express my opinion unilaterally on the granting of legal powers. It goes without saying, however, that I will work to see how lessons learned from emergencies can be organised most efficiently. After that day of study and after the reports, I undertake to look at the issues and come back with our findings on them to see whether and how we can implement them in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u28	Thank you for your answer. I'm hopeful, I might add. I am well aware that it is something that we will have to realise step by step. I am well aware that we cannot implement the Dutch model here and indeed there are some costs involved. I think we should do that one step at a time. We need to see which bodies can already get part of that assignment today. I think that it is indeed the intention of the day of study to create a little more clarity and clarity in that too. So I understand that you do not want to go ice in one night, but I also understand from your answer that there is a commitment to move forward in this dossier. I'll be happy to follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u29	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh's 80th meeting was postponed
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u30	Minister, it has been known for some time that there is a natural spread of radon gas in Wallonia. Especially the rocky surface ensures this. The FANC has now warned that there would also be an increased presence of radon in Flanders. The presence of radon gas could lead to a significant number of cases of lung cancer. The FANC has now rightly launched a sensitization campaign and it also encourages the installation of all kinds of measuring instruments in homes. Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions on this subject, particularly as regards the results of these measurements. How will they be registered? Can these results also be made known to the public? The FANC encourages the installation of all kinds of measuring instruments at home, but in Belgium we also have TELERAD, a very fine-measuring measuring network to measure all kinds of radiation. Can radon gas detection also be done by TELERAD? If yes, were there already increased measurements recorded by TELERAD in Flanders?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u31	Mrs Dierick, the FANC's campaign to sensitise the population to the radon problem is well echoed. By the end of October, 1 800 testers had already been applied for. Radon is a natural radioactive gas that spontaneously escapes from the subsurface, but some soils wash out more radon than others. According to FANC estimates, radon would cause approximately 500 cases of lung cancer every year in our country. There is only a problem if the radon gas can accumulate in the indoor air of living areas, where residents breathe in and out the radioactive gas day in and day out. With regard to the radon esters offered by the FANC, I note that their effects are somewhat similar to the effects of the alcohol esters. However, the registration of radonpollution requires a much longer period than alcohol intoxication. Luckily, the residents don't have to blow. How will we record the results of this measurement? To this end, I would like to outline the course of a test procedure. The applications for obtaining a radontester are submitted via an online application form, which can be found on the website www.radonactie.be. This website was opened specifically for the campaign. All requested data will be entered in a central database. The radontester is sent by the FANC to the applicant by post, which the tester prepares indoors for three months in accordance with the attached requirements, so that the tester is exposed to the indoor air of the building to be sampled. After this exposure period, the tester is returned by returning post, after which it is analysed to determine radon concentration. The applicant will then be informed by letter of the test result, will be given an explanation of the interpretation of the result and will be given suggestions for possible measures to be taken. Finally, the test results shall be entered in the database. Due to privacy, the personalised data is only accessible to the FANC and to the applicant for the test. The FANC therefore has the data. The applicant of the test shall also be informed of what is or is not a dangerous situation in his specific case. How will we make the results known to the public? Once the results of the radon action are available, the FANC will report on it through its website. It will focus on the statistical processing of measurement results, their interpretation for public health, the comparison of the newly obtained data with existing data and the analysis of the results according to the type of housing. We estimate that this can be published on the website in May or June 2015. So before the middle of next year, we could publish that data. You ask whether the TELERAD network can also be used for this purpose. The TELERAD network does not directly measure the presence of radon gas in the environment. However, radon and its radioactive decay products contribute to the overall background radiation recorded by that network. As the radon present is only a problem when it can accumulate in high concentrations in enclosed enclosures, the outdoor air measurements are not relevant for the mapping of the health risks associated with radon exposure. TELERAD is therefore not a real alternative to the radon measurement campaign as it does not provide information on the radon concentration inside the buildings. There is the greatest danger in that, and that is why we need those testers. Finally, in certain meteorological conditions, increased radon concentrations, including in the outdoor air, are indeed observed, and this happens via TELERAD. These are very short-lived increases, such as during a temperature inversion or during a heavy rain shower following a dry period. In the latter case, radon radioactive decay products are washed from the air and knocked down in the environment, increasing the signal of gamma radiation in the TELERAD network. Such phenomena are only difficult for those who follow the TELLERAD measurements on a permanent basis and who have to correctly interpret such increases, but do not pose a risk to those who would reside outside.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u32	Minister, measuring is a fact, so it is a good thing that such a campaign has finally been launched to promote measuring instruments in homes. It is important that these results are properly monitored. I understand, of course, that privacy must be taken into account. However, the FANC must also make the necessary efforts to try to draw general conclusions from these measurements. If effective evidence shows that certain building materials or other things produce increased radiation from radon, then we must think about what conclusions we can draw from these results. However, I understand from your reply that we will get a better view of this next May or June, because then there will be a thorough analysis of the results that will be published on the website. I'll be sure to keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u33	Mr President, Minister, in the context of the trial against a Syrian warrior, it has come to light that a person who has left for Syria had previously obtained a security clearance to carry out certain inspections at the nuclear power station at Doel on behalf of his employer. Such an incident raises questions about who can all be granted security clearance and how the follow-up happens afterwards. My question is therefore very specific. Will a person who is granted security clearance be subsequently followed by the security services in order to determine whether there are grounds for withdrawing the authorisation? I also like to get figures of the number of people whose authorization has been withdrawn over the last five years. Is there a procedure whereby, over time, there will be another screening of the persons who have been granted security clearance? Do you envisage any further amendments to the Law of 11 December 1998 to improve the control of the security clearances delivered?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, I can only answer your question in part, because other ministers are also responsible. The management and delivery of security clearances are the responsibility of the National Security Authority. It is under the custody of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Reynders. Your question must therefore be put to him. As regards the security investigations with a view to the delivery of security clearances, these are carried out by an intelligence and security service, namely the State Security Services or the ADIV, the General Intelligence and Security Service. The police have no direct jurisdiction in this matter. This means that I must suggest that you ask this question to the Minister of Justice and/or the Minister of Defence, who are responsible for these two bodies. The coalition agreement provides for a passage in which the National Security Council will examine the procedure with a view to modernising and strengthening it. The plans are there, but this will be done within the framework of the National Security Council. I can't tell you much about that right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u35	Minister, it is a short answer, but I understand that the question must also be put to other ministers. It remains an important point of attention that, once the security clearance has been given, the person concerned will also be followed up. It should be examined whether it is not appropriate to carry out an evaluation after a certain period of time with regard to those who have received security clearance and to consider whether this should not be adjusted. This can be from withdrawing a security clearance to adjusting the degrees in which one has access to certain parts or simply retaining it if one has passed the evaluation properly. That's a point of interest. I will certainly put my question to the other relevant ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u36	Question No 106 by Mrs Zakia Khattabi is transformed into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 109 has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh's 116 has also been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u37	Mr President, Minister, WikiLeaks came out a few weeks ago with a list of countries that brought in FinFisher's controversial espionage software. Our country is also on the list, alongside countries such as Pakistan, Bahrain, Nigeria and Vietnam. According to this information, our country would have purchased 13 licences in recent years. It would have already spent more than a million euros on purchasing that software. I already questioned the Minister of Justice on the matter last week. He has provided a number of elements concerning his budget within the Justice Department, in particular EUR 36 000. So I am still looking for the remaining amounts, to get that million euros. I hope, therefore, that you will give me some clarification today. I have a number of specific questions. First of all, can you confirm that Belgium is a customer? Your fellow Minister, Geens, confirmed that last week. Secondly, who purchased the controversial software? Which departments or which administrations are involved? Since when is this software used? How often is it used? For what purposes is that spyware used? What's the cost of it? Did the purchase take place through a market survey? If not, what criteria were used to choose that particular company?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u38	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, I do not know whether I will be able to add a great deal to Mr Geens' reply, which he gave last Wednesday. However, I can tell you that the specific software you are talking about is necessary for carrying out tasks assigned by the investigators in the context of terrorist and serious organised crime files. That's what the software is used for. You will understand that for obvious security reasons it is impossible to provide more information on police research techniques as such. Finally, in response to the last question on the purchasing procedure and the market survey, I confirm that the purchase of the software was indeed carried out through a market survey. A secret market procedure was used. There is a legal possibility, once again for security reasons, of using a secret market procedure. It is also through that procedure that the purchase of the espionage software took place.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u39	Mr President, Minister, you have already given an answer that could not be given last week. I am referring to the last part of your answer. After all, Mr Geens had to remain guilty of the answer to the question about the market survey. I also understand that you cannot explain in detail exactly what the software is used for. What interests me, however, is what services they use. That information can't be a secret. That is what Mr Geens has done. He says this is being used in the context of judicial investigations. The police are under the Home Office. He talks about 36 000 purchases within the justice budget. You won't answer that. May I conclude from this that no purchases have taken place within the budget of the police or the Home Office? Do you confirm that? I think I'll have to ask the Secretary of Defense a few more questions. I suspect the military security forces are involved in this and may be able to close the gap. Thanks for the heads-up. I'll continue my search.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u40	Whoever seeks, finds, Mr. Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u41	Debates of the European Parliament 151 of Mrs Temmerman's has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u42	Minister, according to a recent communication from the Local Police Permanent Commission, the shortage of local and federal agents was estimated at 3 000 two years ago. Apparently, those deficits would still exist. I quote the Vice-President of the Standing Committee, Mr Mark Hellinckx in the press: 'Only in Brussels the number of agents increased, the rest of the country is still diving into red figures. As early as the 2002 police reform, the number of prospective inspectors, captains, Commissioners and chief commissioners were needed to optimise the operation of each area. Calculations show that in 94 of the 122 zones in Flanders and Brussels there are structural deficits." However, it seems that it has been decided that there will be no new recruitments to the basic framework in December of this year. In other words, no prospective inspectors will be recruited in December, who would then have to start their training in one of the recognised police schools. There are also rumors that this will mean that in 2014 much less than the previously planned 1 400 candidate inspectors will be recruited. It is also very unclear at the moment whether new recruitments are planned in 2015. I've just been reviewing the federal government agreement. I read the following paragraph: "To ensure a safe citizens' environment is one of the key tasks of the government. To this end, the police are organised efficiently, focusing on police work and with more blue on the street. Respect for the office of police officer steel central. An integrated approach and a chain-based approach are essential. After all, a good security policy is not only reactive and repressive, but also preventive. The government must work towards a community-oriented police force, including strengthening the role of the district police, with a view to conflict prevention." Mr Minister, I have the following simple questions. Firstly, how many candidate inspectors were effectively admitted to the basic training inspector in the calendar year 2014? Secondly, how many candidate inspectors will be admitted to the basic training inspector in 2015 and when will the first entry into service take place? Thirdly, how do you reconcile the objective set out in the coalition agreement and the determination of structural deficits in the police zones, for a total of 3 000 police officers, with the decision not to allow new recruitments to take place in December?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u43	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, the simplest questions are not always the easiest to answer. I will, of course, answer your question about factual data. 856 candidates were already admitted for the training of the basic framework in 2014. In December 2014 a quota will be added but this will be financed by the local police of Antwerp itself. At the moment there are about 40 registrations. This is an additional recruitment mode that the zones can use. Antwerp is doing that now, but other zones can do that. For 2015 800 starting aspirants were budgeted, for 600 after the big holiday and for 200 in December. It is intended to look at these figures within a set of changing parameters. We know the pension judgment of the Constitutional Court, which we have already mentioned, and that will have a major impact on the outflow. You know that I make the negotiations an absolute priority, because this will have an impact on the outflow and thus on the influx to cope with this. The coalition agreement also provides for various optimisation slopes, namely public/public, public/private and internal optimisation of police services, which will generate additional or better oriented capacity. As part of the 2015 budget exercise, which had to be completed within ten days of the new government joining, we have already taken a first series of measures. With regard to the basic budget of the police, taking into account further optimisation slopes, the first revision of the budget will take place around February or March. By then, we will make more fundamental choices than those we made when we had to quickly draw up a budget after the government was in the saddle. I therefore ask you not to pin yourself on those numbers now. Let us do so in the debate on the first budget change, because there will be more fundamental choices. Finally, in practice there is sometimes a difference between the formulation of needs and the actual reduction of aspirants. If the training is to be completed, it is sometimes more than one effectively decreases afterwards, i.e. once the people are trained. I will therefore launch a project to adapt the regulations. Aspirant inspectors must know their employer before starting their basic training. This simplifies the system, removes such unambiguousness and we are responding to the 195 employers. The 195 employers are the 194 zones and, not least, the Federal Police.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which is partly factual. In part, you indicate that the deficit has not been filled, but that, under certain circumstances, things need to be looked at more broadly and not merely numerically. I assume that you will also consult with the standing committee on this issue. With what is now in the pipeline, it is true that with the deficit of 3000 units, what was established two years ago, there is still work to be done. I am prepared to wait and see what measures will follow. There will also be a debate on the core tasks of the police, and this issue may also be raised and raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u45	Minister, I would like to ask you about a problem which has been on the rise for some time and which I hope you will resolve in the near future. The Road Safety Fund is largely stifled with the proceeds of traffic fines paid by the Belgians. Most of it flows to the police zones. That part shall consist of a fixed, indexed amount and the additional resources allocated on the basis of a number of criteria such as the size of the zone or the results obtained. The shoe pinches at that second part. Apparently that second disc has been blocked for several years. Since the reform of the fund in 2008, it is still awaiting a royal decision which sets out precisely the criteria of distribution. Questioning the zones tells me that if the draft KB were to be applied today, the areas would have some EUR 82 million of funds. I also hear that a lot of zones have failed the Home Office. I do not know whether this has been done by registered letter or by procedure. At least people are getting more impatient. It is right to ask for a decision in that regard and to unblock the file. Can you confirm the blocked amount of nearly €82 million? How are we doing on the issue of the royal decree? Where's the design stuck? In the meantime, have you found all the time to consider that? In the meantime, how many police zones have the Home Office failed? Have proceedings been initiated in the meantime? If so, how many?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u46	Minister, several local police areas have subpoenaed the federal government to demand the payment of the funds from the Road Safety Fund. These funds have not been paid to the zones since 2009. However, many areas have several projects funded by these funds and are now in difficulty. Minister, what is the total amount of late money from the Road Safety Fund? When will the funds be paid out? What problems do the publication of the necessary implementing act stand in the way? Has the federal government created reserves for the payment of the funds?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u47	Minister, I agree with the introduction of my two fellow Members. The file dates back to before your time. There are a number of areas you have written about. Maybe you're the one who can offer a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u48	I think I have an answer to the specific questions. The amount of delays from the Road Safety Fund for the period 2010-2013 shall be EUR 80 834 491.26. My intention is to have the KB approved in 2014. I'll do everything in my power to do that. We have a month and a half left. It is my commitment to get that approved this year. Next week or the week after that, I will present the dossier to the Council of Ministers. The Royal Decree should, in particular, establish the key that will allow the distribution of the balance between the police zones and the federal police by region. The key with the specific location of the infringements has been the subject of political discussions for a long time and has been characterised by many technical difficulties in locating traffic infringements, for example in the case of a penalty. In addition, the previous government failed to reach a political agreement on this issue. The federal government is committed to finding the means to fulfil its obligations. There have been no reserves for this in the past, but we will draw them from the 2014 budget. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, to answer your specific question, there are two legal proceedings currently under way. All Flemish police zones have issued a notice of formal notice by registered letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u49	In the meantime, Minister, all zones have sent a registered letter. If you can solve the problem this year, as you promise today, you will take a good turn with the zones. I hope you can do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u50	Minister, I think that the principle of juste retour will certainly find its way here and that the police areas in the region that have given the fines will be able to get the resources. After all, we must be aware that, for example, the police in West Flanders are waiting for flash cameras with number plate recognition. I am very pleased that a solution will be found in 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u51	Mr Minister, I would like to thank you for your double commitment to bring the Royal Decree quickly to the Council of Ministers and to release the funds which are apparently not earmarked in the budget. That's good news. It is now waiting for the realization; it looks good.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u52	Minister, in your short existence as Minister of the Interior, the operation of the police has caused you a number of concerns. That is the fate of the Minister of the Interior. Recently there was a lot of commotion about a story by Mr.Yassine Chanouf, posted on Facebook on October 25th. He told a whole story about his arrest. What struck me in particular at the time is that this facebook status was shared over 500 times, and thus received a very wide spread. After that, the classical media also discussed this. Apparently, for many people there, the belief in the proper functioning of our police services has been undermined, because the story that has been told is appalling and does not comply with the principles of our rule of law. The eagerness with which this status was shared teaches us that, unfortunately, there appears to be a fertile ground for these kinds of testimonies, whether in quotes or not, and that in broad circles of our society the belief in the rule of law, and perhaps also in the Rue de la Loi, has been undermined. That's something we need to worry about. In the meantime, some more information has been provided on this case, including in the media. Of course, I cannot and will not provoke you to comment on this particular case. That would not be appropriate here, nor would it be appropriate for you to do so. However, I would like to take advantage of this case to ask you a few questions in that context, but not in the specific case. First of all, what guarantees that facts as described in that facebook status, I repeat: apart from the specific case.................................................................................................................................................................................................. Does the current arrest procedure, to be followed by police officers, show any imperfections, in your view, which could cause a potential similar condition? Secondly, do you know of any formal complaints that might expose similar abuses? Thirdly, do police officers have the appropriate means to act in an equally decisive and correct manner in the event of arrests? Is it necessary to sit together with those responsible for the training and continuing training of police officers in order to improve training on procedures to be followed in the event of arrests? Fourthly, this point was given additional topicality in the light of the events at the demonstration in Brussels. To what extent can police forces publicly defend themselves in discussions such as those to which I refer, for example? Or do they remain undefended, possibly the victim of any misrepresentation of facts? Fifthly, I repeat that this was shared 500 times and that some of the public really felt that such allegations were very credible. What measures can be taken to ensure that the belief in our rule of law and in the correct functioning of the police can be maintained and, if necessary, restored in all sections of the population? All this, Minister, and I would like to repeat this, bearing in mind the role of the police in acting where action is needed, in a precarious balance with, of course, the principles of the rule of law and the rights of people who are suspected of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u53	Mr President, Mr De Roover, you are asking this question on a specific case, but you agree with me that we cannot now deal with this specific case. We must see whether or not we can learn from this. As far as your first question is concerned, violations of the inviolability of the home and personal freedom are fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution. Both are included in the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law of provisional detention. The rights of every person questioned, including access to his lawyer, were explicated by the so-called Salduz legislation. At police level, the necessary training was provided to implement and implement this legislation correctly. Those training courses were both at the federal level and in all police zones. For your second question on formal complaints, I refer to the annual reports of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. The recommendations are the subject of a detailed analysis at police level to propose, where appropriate, legislative adjustments, to refine internal directives or to provide appropriate training. That report lists a description of the complaints together with a solution. So you can find the necessary information in those annual reports. As for your third question about the use of coercion in police assignments. This is regulated by the Police Office Act and the police department's deontological code. The training and training in violence control is regulated by the ministerial letter GPI48. The training and training in violence control includes four themes: psychosocial skills, gun coercion, gun-free coercion and police intervention techniques. Each of the basic operational framework shall run at least 4 4-hour sessions ending with a certified annual evaluation of those intervention techniques. For the qualified level, for example for a tactical support team, additional training and training are provided, as well as for the level specialist in violence control. Any training in violence control shall be the subject of a record of recognition. This training must not, therefore, be given in an arbitrary manner; a whole procedure of recognition has been set up for this purpose. On the basis of the analysis of incidents and/or experience during an intervention, the management of the training, in cooperation with the operational units, shall continuously strive to improve training and training within the integrated police. We are therefore relying on concrete facts that have arisen in practice to see whether the training has been sufficiently adapted and whether it should not be adjusted. That happens on a continuous basis. In this way, the philosophy of violence control can be applied in the best possible way. This philosophy means that, in accordance with the legislative framework, any form of coercion must be legal, proportionate and subsidiary to the use of the individual or collective equipment assigned to the police. As far as your fourth question is concerned, my predecessor recently extended and extended legal protection and free legal assistance as provided for in the Police Office Act for police officers. Police officers are supported by the organisation more than before and it is through the government that they should safeguard their rights. That policy line is clearly set out in letter GPI 72. It is by no means intended that police officers should engage in discussions in social media with the risk that they might at that time violate their professional secrecy or expose themselves to the public response. It is the responsibility of the government to protect them and act for them, where appropriate through the appropriate channels of the press spokesman. In our rule of law, there are sufficient control bodies and access to justice is guaranteed to prosecute abuses and thus safeguard the belief in the rule of law. I can only conclude that the person concerned did not use this here.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u54	Minister, I am glad that you say that there is an evolutionary nature in following up on such matters. I'd like to clarify that in my fourth question, I wasn't talking about police officers. Of course, this is not the job of these people, but police services are sometimes compromised in the media. Perhaps we should take a more active approach to this at times. You are right to pay attention to the balance between an operational police service on the one hand and citizens' rights on the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u55	Minister, I understand there has been some panic at the National Police Sports Association. This association organises and promotes sports activities for policemen. The sports association receives an annual grant of EUR 10 000 from the federal government, but is now in danger of losing it. However, the 2014 subsidy was approved in the Budget Act. Recently, however, a negative opinion was issued by the Treasury Inspectorate. This negative opinion would be based on the claim that such a subsidy is not in line with the planned savings. In the coalition agreement, I find nothing on the deletion of this subsidy. Hence my questions. Are you already aware of the negative advice of the Treasury Inspectorate? Will you object to your colleague, the Minister for the Budget? What will be your attitude towards such allowances to the National Police Sports Association in the future? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u56	Thank you, Mr De Groote, for that question. I have indeed taken note of the negative opinion of the Inspector-General of Finance, even here. It's not the only negative advice he gives. This year is indeed a grant of EUR 10 000. My administration is now preparing a justification for appealing to the Minister for the Budget. If her arguments are to convince me, I will indeed appeal to my colleague in the Budget and see whether he can give his agreement or not. One might not say so, but in general and policy-wise I am in favour of promoting the physical condition, including the police. The circumstances in which they sometimes get caught up are not to go back far in our memory to cite examples; just think of last week's footage, asking our policemen to be more prepared. If that subsidy can contribute to this, it is a good investment. This will also be my reasoning in evaluating the possibility of appealing to the Minister for the Budget. The 2015 budget again includes an amount of EUR 8 000, as all grants are reduced. However, the 2015 budget includes an amount of EUR 8 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u57	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. The various ministerial letters and directives are indeed based on the police's physical preparedness. We must therefore also be consistent in this area. I can also tell you that the Minister for the Budget has informed you that, if he receives an objection to the unfavourable opinion, he will examine it very carefully and very favourably. We are therefore on the right track in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u58	Mr President, I would like to congratulate you on your committee chairman. Minister, I also congratulate you on your new mandate. Much has already been said about the power shortages and the famous blackout. Mr Leen Dierick is our expert on energy and blackouts, but I would like to mention a very specific point of attention in the whole issue, namely the fall-out and the potential impact on the telecommunications network, in particular on the infrastructure for which the NV ASTRID is responsible. ASTRID works with an antenna park and mobile data. To this end, agreements were concluded with the operators and other external firms. Are the emergency services, in the case of a cut-off or blackout, still available? How robust is the ASTRID network when used intensively? ASTRID is used in specific situations, but an increased incidence can be predicted with a decoupling. Is the network operationally prepared for this? It is also important to note that ASTRID is highly dependent on agreements with operators and service providers. What is in the service level agreements, the contractual terms with the operators? Should they provide alternatives? I know how the classic operators are prepared for a fall-out, but I would like to know whether for the SA ASTRID, for all contracts concluded, there are also included in the SLAS scenarios to stay operational in a fall-out. This question is also part of the implementation of the European Critical Infrastructure Directive. Each provider shall record those scenarios. Through the Belgian contact point, the security plans should be proposed and updated and evaluated annually. We are particularly interested in this in that regard too. If you want to reach the emergency services, via the landline or the mobile phone, you could say that it is plausible that there are back-ups for that, but what is happening? I remember a lot of discussions with previous ministers with the accessibility of emergency services via shortened numbers and power stations with Voice over IP? They are not in the classic telecom network, but they are on the IP-related protocol. However, the end user does not know that. For example, most companies already work with VOIP-based plants. Will they simply not be able to reach emergency services if the region is disconnected? With an amendment to the telecoms law, we have already been able to obtain that they can also use shortened numbers. However, if the power plant cannot be controlled, there is simply no more accessibility. The question is, therefore, what are the obligations for the providers of fixed telephony and mobile telephony as well as fixed and mobile internet How are the scenarios prepared in the light of critical infrastructure?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u59	Mr President, I too would like to congratulate you on your presidency. Minister, the question is a bit like the previous question. I do not want to repeat the questions that have already been asked. We all know that in the coming winter we may be faced with a blackout. Of course, a lot of scenarios are being prepared. Mr Minister, it is actually about the consequences of a blackout for the police and the security services in general. Everywhere there are plans for a possible blackout and my question can be summarised as follows. Is the police prepared for a power cut-off? The ASTRID system is just a component. I actually want to find out from you whether our security services are in the process of drawing up plans to deal with disasters and incidents, among other things. Who's gonna take charge of this? Will that be the mayor, the provincial governor, you as Minister of the Interior or the crisis center?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u60	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, Mr Yüksel, I must apologize in advance. It is a rather comprehensive answer, because it is a very important issue that concerns the citizens in the context of hopefully unnecessary power cuts. Mr Deseyn, you asked how the availability of emergency services is ensured. ASTRID is in permanent and direct contact with the government's coordination and crisis centre. There are concrete agreements on the procedures to be followed in the event of planned shutdowns. ASTRID has also taken a series of measures to ensure communication as much as possible. The central infrastructure and control rooms, the centres 101 and 112, have power generators. Moreover, they are located in cities that are largely spared in the exit plan. The response and handling of emergency calls is thus guaranteed in the provincial emergency rooms equipped with ASTRID-CAD technology. How robust is the ASTRID network when used intensively during power interruptions? Of course, the consequences of a power surge on the volume of radio traffic generated by the emergency and security services in such a situation are difficult to predict in advance. We do have some hypotheses, but the ASTRID network has great autonomy and capacity to absorb peaks in radio traffic. The ASTRID transmitters are equipped with emergency batteries that guarantee at least 8 hours of communication. This is longer than the 3 to 5 hour rotation periods indicated in the exit plan. The key components of the ASTRID network are double-executed. Furthermore, ASTRID monitors the operation of the network day and night and mobile resources are available in affected areas. Apart from the network, radioisotopes of police and emergency services can continue to operate as normal walkie-talkies in all circumstances. What requirements were included in the SLAs between ASTRID and the providers? For some components of its communication infrastructure such as leased lines or data transmission, ASTRID calls on external telecom providers. They also make every effort to ensure continuity. They offer a minimum duration of action of 8 hours. There too, the exit period of between 3 and 5 hours is largely exceeded. Of the 520 ASTRID transmitters, about ten are located in remote areas in the Ardennes. Electrical infrastructure and telecommunications infrastructure are limited. Suppliers cannot guarantee the minimum duration of action here. There may be a problem there. In the event of a switch-off, the majority of the users immediately lose fixed telephony in the affected areas. In the first instance, emergency services in the affected areas will remain accessible via the mobile network. That net will continue to operate for 1 to 3 hours after shutdown. In those areas, a national roaming will be activated for the purpose of reaching the emergency services, making use of any operational cell tower, regardless of the operator he or she is a customer. In addition, a call to emergency services via 112 will always have priority on other calls in case of network saturation, as long as the antenna works. To what extent will end users continue to be able to use the Internet and telephony? In the affected areas, fixed telephony and the Internet will go out immediately for the majority of users. The mobile network will continue to operate for one to three hours after shutdown. Services for a number of citizens may also be disrupted outside affected areas, as essential components are located in neighbouring streets which are switched off. The switch-off plan is arranged per cabin and not necessarily per street. What working arrangements were made with the respective fixed telephony, mobile telephony and fixed and mobile Internet providers? The BIPT is responsible for coordinating emergency planning and, if necessary, crisis management in the telecommunications sector in the event of power disruption. In order to organise the coordination of emergency planning, BIPT has set up a specific working group on this issue with the telecom operators. The general management of the crisis centre also participates in that working group. In order to facilitate crisis policy in the telecommunications sector, a representation of the BIPT and the ASTRID SA is foreseen in the federal crisis structures. The agreements currently made within the telecoms sector concern the establishment of a national roaming service to reach emergency services and the priority of calling for 112 in case of saturation. The BIPT follows the operational preparation and application of the measures by the different operators. These measures are currently collective and voluntary agreements between telecom operators. Mr Yüksel, I think I have dealt with most of your questions. Emergency call centres are normally not affected by the shutdown programme. The ASTRID systems are connected to the power grid and, as I have just said, have a battery that offers 8 hours of autonomy. Is there a backup system for the emergency calls, in that case? Yeah, all except for two, have a backup system. Antwerp and Arlen do not have one, so that is a well-distributed Community area, and they are provided with an emergency generator from civil protection, so that problem has been overcome. Excuse me for the more elaborate answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your indeed technically comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u62	Prime Minister, I would like to thank you in particular for your reply. We have to make sure that we do not give ASTRID another jaw blow. A few years ago, there was some frustration with the emergency services. It would be a pity that there is another image degradation due to a lack of operationality. Then there is the problem of accessibility. There is still work to be done in connection with Voice on IP and information and awareness raising. I say that because in practice a lot is being transferred: from fixed to mobile, to bluetooth or voice over IP, which makes communication very hybrid and does not know which network or device it is. We will have to promote this well, along with the emergency number, because the number 100 is embedded in the citizens. By the way, does the automatic link still exist between 112 and 100? Sensibilisation is also very important in this area. You have said that there will be a national roaming service, but it must be agreed with the software developer for Belgium that no unlocking of the SIM card is necessary to call the emergency services. That is an important part of the information so that citizens know that if they don't have a landline at the office, they can use a mobile phone and even work with it without a PIN code. This can also guarantee access via 112. Then there's a specific problem with the masts in the Ardennes. According to the European regulation on this matter and also Belgian legislation, they should be included in the same recovery network. That is certainly another working point and I hope it will be settled against the first effective fall-out. At least I'm a lot more optimistic than I am for the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u63	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 267, by Mr Demon: 191 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Wilrycx (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u64	Mr President, I thank the committee for alerting me so that I can ask this question which I consider very important. Mr Minister, under the previous legislature, I have asked the then Minister of the Interior many times about the opportunity to grant the administrative and logistical framework of the police services located in my region, the bilingualism bonus already received by their colleagues in the operational framework, as well as the members of the CALog of the Brussels-Capital Region. This seems to me to be an implacable logic because these workers must demonstrate effective bilingualism in the performance of their duties. They are confronted with an exclusively French-speaking audience on a daily basis. They work on the basis of memos in French. In addition, correspondence and communication with national and other authorities are carried out in French as well as the majority of training courses for the CALOG. Moreover, the correction of this injustice would have an extremely low cost to the federal budget, given that the premiums for CALOG staff in the two German-speaking police areas would be provided by local budgets and that the federal CALOG staff are only a few dozen. I would also point out that all this has already been negotiated with the trade unions. The various zone chiefs concerned agreed to grant this bonus as well. Everything had already taken its course very well so that, on the basis of all these arguments, I had obtained at the end of the previous legislature from Minister Milquet, the drafting of a consensus royal decree, well thought out and endorsed in the Council of Ministers by the old majority, which the minister to whom you succeed, Mr Jambon, did not, however, sign, preferring to leave responsibility for it to his successor, in this case you. So, Minister, you have a great responsibility. At least that's what I think. I'm getting all kinds of information. Will you sign this royal decree that is on your table, if my information is good? When will it be published and when will it finally be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u65	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, the draft royal decree is indeed well known to my services and it is at the end of the procedure. All the formalities have indeed been completed, but, contrary to what you support, this text has not been submitted to the Council of Ministers. Let me take a look at the opinion of the Council of State and make sure that there is no room for discrimination. If this is not the case, I will submit the project for immediate royal signature.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u66	Minister, thank you very much for your answers. I sincerely believe that this must be a mistake because I remember that the then Budget Minister had already endorsed it and that all checks of legality and non-discrimination – and I fully agree that if we create a system of discrimination, it can start in every direction – had been carried out. It would be a shame to go back to a procedure for requesting an opinion from the Council of State. I know the song! I know administrative law. This will delay the execution of this order. I will send you all the answers that were given to me and the exchanges that I had concerning the origins of this royal decree. If this can help with better information on this issue, I am quite prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u67	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you these questions in the context of your competence for nuclear safety. I think the problem is known by everyone. Target 4 is still due to an incident, possibly due to sabotage. It was announced that the restart would be scheduled for the end of this year. Of course, that restart is only possible with the FANC's permission. Until now, we do not believe that this authorisation has been granted. We all know that winter is on the horizon and that this issue may cause problems for our security of supply. That is why I have a number of questions concerning the permission and restarting of the plant. What is the current state of play in this dossier? When is the FANC expected to take a decision on this possible reboot? Do you already know whether the FANC may impose additional requirements on the operator of the plant to start that restart? Can you give me an update on the judicial investigation? Is that still running or is it already locked? What can you tell us about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u68	Mr President, Minister, my questions are in line. We all know that in August 2014 Target 4 was shut down following an act. One is talking about a sabotage act, the other is saying that it is a different kind of act. We don't have any clarity on that yet. However, it was said that Objective 4 would be put back into operation in December 2014. Following the possible restart of Objective 4, of course, a number of unanswered questions remain. First of all, what kind of act was it? Was it a well-prepared action, was it an accident or was it more of a terrorist act or whatever? In any case, it demonstrates the vulnerability of our nuclear power plants. I don't think you can deny that either, if this proves possible in a very secure environment. One suddenly loses oil and the oil runs away for an hour before one intervenes. If that happens, other things can happen in such a fragile environment that we cannot really see the consequences of. In the light of the incidents in France, the restart of Objective 4 is also debatable. After all, since October, French nuclear power stations have been plagued by all kinds of overflying drones, which once again demonstrates the vulnerability of nuclear power plants. I hope that, in your capacity as Minister for the Interior and therefore responsible for safety in general and for nuclear power plants in particular, you will take this into account. Meanwhile, the FANC informs that the operator still does not need formal permission to restart. The control agency would like to impose a number of measures on the operator, which is why I ask: Can you give us an update on the investigation into the sabotage in Objective 4? Do we already have a view of this and are we sure it was sabotage? Will the operator wait for the end of the investigation before rebooting? Has there been any consultation with the operator on this issue? What position do you take, in particular, and the government in general, on this? Is it true that the operator does not need formal approval from the FANC before restarting Objective 4? Which bodies should then decide on the possible reboot? What nuclear safety measures will the FANC in any case impose, whether or not it should authorise the operator to restart the nuclear power plant?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u69	Mr President, I would also like to congratulate you on your appointment as chairman of the committee. The exchange has gone very quickly and I wish you a lot of pleasure in this fascinating committee. Minister, I also have a number of questions about Objective 4 and about problems in the nuclear sphere. My fellow Members have already made a few comments, and I will add the following. First of all, has the investigation been completed yet? Is there any clarity as to the circumstances in which the alleged or actual sabotage act would have taken place? Secondly, have additional security measures been developed and imposed by the FANC? If so, which one? Thirdly, and this is perhaps the most important question, a number of fellow Members also actively urge the reactor to be restarted. The question is whether there can be a safe restart if the circumstances in which the sabotages took place are not clear. Can we simply restart the reactor if the unsub has not been identified? That is an important question that deserves consideration. Finally, I noticed in this case that a lot of people were eligible as perpetrators of sabotage. It's like a coming and going of people in the nuclear power plant and this particular zone. In this sense, an adjustment of the system of security clearances and attestations could perhaps be a possible conclusion of the incident. What do you think of that? Is there going to be such an adjustment?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to point out that I did not receive Mr Calvo's questions in advance, perhaps because of yesterday's holiday and the day before yesterday's bridge. Your questions are in the same vein, but if you have any further questions afterwards, I would like to come back to them in writing or orally at the next committee meeting. After all, I assume that the subject will not be closed today. As far as the state of the investigation is concerned, I can tell you that the investigation is still ongoing. However, it is confidential. It is therefore logical that I cannot say anything about this. It is, however, possible, on the basis of the results of the investigation, to impose additional conditions on the operator before re-starting. That is an important element. As regards the security of the plant, the FANC has already given a whole series of additional instructions to the operator after the incident. Those measures continue to apply today. Before the plant is re-launched, the measures will be re-evaluated. Given the nature of the measures, which have to do with the fight against terrorism, I cannot make any details public. I can only say that if the investigation shows that new measures are needed, they must be taken before the plant can start again. The government is being asked for a position. The FANC shall assess the situation independently. The government won't interfere. The government will therefore not take a position on this issue. The FANC alone will determine whether the plant can be safely restarted. Those are the answers I can give so far. If further specifications are needed, Mr Calvo, I would be more than happy to discuss them later. Please excuse the fact that I did not receive your question in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u71	Mr Minister, I believe that everyone agrees that safety is the most important thing in terms of nuclear power plants. Everyone was affected by the incident and it is important that the investigation be conducted to the bone, so that we can be clear about who is behind it or what the reasons were for it. We must also consider how we can avoid this in the future. I agree with you, Minister, that it is the responsibility of the FANC to continue to judge this issue. The politicians, the government and the minister must not interfere with this. We must have confidence in the expertise and competence of the FANC and the nuclear power plant can only be restarted if it gives the green light. Like Mr Calvo, I am also linked to the security clearance. I have already asked a question about this and this remains a point of attention. It is not because one has been given a security clearance to work in a nuclear power plant that it will last forever. We need to consider whether we can link this to a moment of evaluation, and perhaps we can draw this lesson from it. We continue to follow this up and hope that the investigation will quickly lead to a breakthrough, so that we know where we stand and who is the cause of all this misery.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am very pleased that you expressly confirm that we are waiting for the investigation to begin again before Objective 4. You also said that that decision is entirely dependent on the FANC. There was some ambiguity about this and I am therefore satisfied with your answer. After all, this is the only body that can decide whether it can be restarted. Thirdly, I think we should learn lessons from this when the investigation is over. We must ensure that such matters can no longer arise in the future. I would like to stress once again that this demonstrates how vulnerable nuclear power plants are in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u73	Minister, I can only support this as a green politician. Cases like this definitely refer the myth of infallible nuclear energy to the wastebasket. What also surprises me, Mr Jambon, is that the investigation is still ongoing. It is strange in itself that such a thing can happen; that is perhaps a very annoying thought for all of us. The fact that so much time is needed to identify who is at the root of the sabotage act is something to think about. That is a remarkable fact. I also agree that the safety regulator should be able to do his job and that politics should not get in the way. However, if we do not know who did it, how it could have happened and whether we can restart it, then that is not just technical questions or questions from the regulator, but it is also a matter for the politicians. Then it is a political and social aspect, and we can certainly still talk about such questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u74	Mr President, since the problem of the cracks in the reactors is well known, there is no point in asking my questions for a long time. So I'll make them quick. Additional research has been carried out into the cracks in the reactors. Are the results of this already known? What's known at the moment? It has been announced that an international team would be called together to further review the results. Has that team been called together yet? Is it made up of the same experts as the previous team? By when can we expect the final report from this international team? Are there any additional requirements that the FANC makes for the operation after a possible restart? Is that clear yet? What demands could be made? What's the timing of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u75	These questions, Minister, are of course in line with the previous questions. It has just been said that it demonstrates the vulnerability of nuclear energy. Target 3 and Tihange 2 show that vulnerability even more. This is because there are cracks where it is still not clear how they got there, whether they are moving forward and what the consequences are. If these reactors are to be shut down, and if they cause a supply problem, after the closure of Objective 4, it is quite clear that nuclear energy is not the energy of the future and that nuclear energy is very uncertain. Let us talk about Objective 3 and Tihange 2. As a result of the irregularities found, investigations have been carried out in both plants. On the basis of the analysis of the national and foreign experts, the FANC will advise the government on, again, the possible re-launch of both plants. In other words, the findings of the experts are crucial to the FANC's advice to the government. I hope, Minister, that you will take the same position and that it will indeed be the FANC that will decide whether or not to restart. The extension of the lifetime of Objective 1 and Objective 2, the two oldest plants in our country, will also have to be looked at in this way. What is happening now in Objective 4 and in the other two plants can also be done in Objective 1 and Objective 2. In order to maximise the safety of our citizens, it is essential that there is sufficient transparency about the Committee of Experts and the results of the tests. That is why I have the following questions. Do you already have a look at the test results carried out by the SCK? What is the composition of the International Expert Committee? On what basis were its members selected? Can you guarantee that the experts will be able to operate independently? When does the expert committee start its work? Minister, do you think it is likely that the Committee will have completed its report by 31 December 2014? What are the consequences of exceeding the deadline for the lifetime extension of Target 1 and DoeI 2? Can you describe the state of play with regard to this extension of life? Has the operator already placed an order for the uranium rods? That is, of course, essential. If he has already done so, what is the origin of that uranium?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u76	Mr Minister, the other problem child in the nuclear sphere is actually twins, especially Objective 3 and Tihange 2. In the meantime, the dossier has been on the agenda for two and a half years. In this sense, it is logical that Members of Parliament should ask you today, in your capacity as new Minister for the Interior, about the state of play in the dossier. In addition, this is immediately my second question: Electrabel is already working on press communication. The company announces that it intends to restart the plants in question. In the meantime, has Electrabel provided the FANC with any information? Has it or has it not already formally made an application to restart these reactors? Finally, I have a question about timing. The current government would opt for the one from my point of view, someone does not need to be a green politician to have the same opinion.. foolish decision to extend the life span of Objective 1 and Objective 2 by ten years. In the coalition agreement, this extension is linked to the viability and future of Objective 3 and Tihange 2. Then what's the timing? The coalition agreement states that the law on the core exit will be amended before the end of this year. Then clarity about Objective 3 and Tihange 2 is very important. Hence my question about timing. It is my conviction, Minister, that we have been played with our feet long enough. This has been dragging on for two and a half years. The deadline is postponed over and over again. This is far from positive for legal certainty and the market situation. I believe that our citizens, you as Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Energy, but also the energy companies and the energy sector, are entitled to clarity. I am particularly curious about the deadline you set, because I think you should finally do so. I think that's what your predecessor has been doing for too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u77	Mr President, I must say once again that I did not receive Mr Calvo's questions in good time, but I think that most of the points are in my answer. The decision on the possible re-launch of nuclear power stations Objective 3 and Tihange 2 will be at a crucial stage in the next few weeks. This is technically a complex dossier, while the interests at stake are particularly important, both for the owner of the two plants and for the supply of electricity to the country and for the safety of the population. It will be remembered that a great deal of thought, analysis and study work has been done over the past two years to assess the possible impact on the safety of the presence of several thousand thin fault indications, cracks, in the steel wall of the reactor tank of these two plants. The specialists speak of hydrogen flakes. The Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety was already fully briefed on this during the previous legislature. These defects are almost certainly due to the wrought and construction process used, so it has to be decided that these plants have been operating with these hidden defects for more than 30 years. However, the integrity of the reactor vessel must be maintained under the most extreme load, for example due to a major earthquake, even if the statistical probability is particularly low. In May 2013, the operator was given the green light of the safety authorities to restart these two plants, after a thorough analysis of the problem and after consulting the available international expertise. Such a problem has not so far been identified in any nuclear power plant throughout the world, so that our security services, with their evaluation, have been world leaders. The International Atomic Energy Agency confirmed in December 2013 that the FANC has handled this difficult decision correctly. The restart was made conditional in 2013 on a number of conditions and actions that the operator had to take, including carrying out tests to demonstrate that the steel under intense irradiation would not be too weak despite the presence of the identified defects. For these tests, Electrabel called on the SCK. In the BR2 research reactor, a long-term irradiation was simulated on a piece of steel that showed similar fault indications to those found in the target 3 and Tihange 2 reactor vessels. After the first test results were made available, Electrabel decided in March 2014 to close both reactors early. The first test results showed that one of the mechanical properties of the steel, namely fracture toughness, was more influenced by irradiation than predicted by the theoretical models. As long as there was no adequate explanation for these different results, it was decided to keep both plants out of operation. In the meantime, a second and then a third test campaign was launched to explain the unexpected results. In these new tests old samples from the plants themselves were also irradiated. In June Electrabel announced that the execution and analysis of these tests would continue until autumn 2014. Electrabel has recently provided the available information to the FANC while certain analyses of the metal structure of the samples are still ongoing. Last week Electrabel announced that the results of a German research programme from the past should still be integrated into this dossier. The FANC will run its analysis process in two steps. It will first of all express its opinion on the robustness of the methodology used by Electrabel in the preparation of its justification dossier. The acceptability of this methodology shall be considered as a first test for the admissibility of the dossier. Only in a second stage, after the admissibility of the file, will the FANC, together with its technical branch Bel V and the control body for pressure vessels AIB-Vinçotte, decide whether the plants can be safely restarted. In order to consolidate the analysis of the results of the mechanical resistance tests by the security authorities, the information of the test campaigns will be submitted to a panel of Belgian and foreign scientists, selected by the FANC, after consultation of the International Atomic Energy Agency. This panel has 8 personalities, 3 of which were already part of the previous international panel, while the Belgian member was already part of the committee of 4 professors appointed by the FANC Scientific Council to examine the dossier. 4 out of 8 members are therefore familiar with the dossier, as they were already involved in the evaluation organised in 2013. These are independent material experts or persons working with foreign security authorities. The group of experts has already examined the dossier. Their report is expected within a few weeks, but as new information has emerged and some analyses commissioned by Electrabel have not yet been fully completed, the report of the panel of experts may only be provisional. There will therefore be a report which will have to be extended later with these new findings. At present, the FANC gives the highest priority to the analysis of the dossier, but it wishes to devote all the time necessary for this purpose. As regards questions concerning the law on the nuclear exit to keep Objectives 1 and 2 longer in service and the acquisition of uranium to make this possible, this falls within the competence of the Energy colleague. So I won't answer that. That is, after all, her competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u78	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive reply. Partly I can repeat my reply from last time. Safety, of course, remains the top priority, especially with regard to nuclear power plants. This is also apparent from the way in which it was acted. No risk was taken and the nuclear power stations were shut down. The results were not good and second and third tests were carried out. The nuclear power stations are still at a standstill again. It is good that these investigations are being carried out and we must wait for the results. When I hear it like that, it will probably be very difficult to get final results by the end of this year. That is a problem that we will be faced with. The coalition agreement states that a decision will be taken and that conditions are attached to it. We must therefore keep a close eye on the timing. It is important to have definitive and good results. We cannot draw conclusions on the basis of preliminary results, unless they are exceptionally good. I believe that we must have confidence in the security authorities in the FANC. We have that expertise in our country. We should be proud to know so much about nuclear energy. We must have faith in the FANC. I will follow the results closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can only repeat what I have just said: it is clear that nuclear energy is a form of energy from the past. We are unable to keep those nuclear power plants running. That is also right, because the investigations have not yet been fully carried out and safety is not guaranteed. What is possible there today may be possible in another nuclear power plant tomorrow. So, please, let us not prolong the life of the other nuclear power stations, but let us look for an alternative to nuclear energy. It is clear that the power shortage that we are not likely to face this winter, but which we still have a problem with, is due to nuclear power which does not offer any certainty. This government must also reflect on the future of its energy policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u80	Minister, the FANC and its branch Bel V must be given the space to conduct the investigation in a serious and independent manner. However, there are two nuclear reactors with thousands of cracks in the reactor vessels. To this end, I would like you to look very carefully at the role you and the government want to play in the coming weeks. After all, it is not a simple decision. If there is any doubt about that, then I do not think you can simply say that the FANC must draw its plan. That's the first element. Let my own position be very clear about this, if there is any doubt about the safety of these reactors, then they must remain closed. A second element with which I am somewhat bored in your reply is that you say that you may have to give up a preliminary evaluation and then a final one. That's the same mistake as last time. The FANC then said one day after the results were made available that the reactors could be restarted. They were then restarted and then they had to come back to that. It's really not a good thing to work that way. I want to protect you from that, and I ask you to act very carefully, as do the agency of which you are the guardian minister. They should be very careful with preliminary conclusions and provisional plans. Finally, I come to Objectives 1 and 2 and the Minister for Energy. Mr Jambon, I am quite young, but I have experienced post-Fukushima and post-Chernobyl consciously. Mrs Marghem, as Minister for Energy, has perhaps made the most pro-nuclear start of the last 20 years. She was very energetic at that. I would therefore like to call on you to play your full role as Minister for Nuclear Safety. Mrs. Marghem is very enthusiastic and Mr. Clarinval is her principal advisor. A fellow member of the Chamber, that is highly original. We have never seen this before, that a Member of Parliament is the most important advisor to the Minister of Energy. That's really spectacular. That's unbelievable. Forget about the Planning Bureau or the FANC, your own group (...). If Mrs. Marghem needs advisors, I'd like to give her free advice after my hours. I still have time after my hours before that. The hardworking Fleming is in all parties, Mr. Jambon. All madness on a stick: Mrs Marghem is rather outspokenly nuclear. I hope you can control her in your capacity as Minister of Nuclear Safety. Extending the lifespan of old nuclear power plants is not without risk. After all, they are dropping more and more stings. Mr President, I will conclude. The fact is that, if we had no clarity on Objective 3 and Tihange 2 before the end of 2014, it would be decided, under pressure from Electrabel, to extend the life span of Objective 1 and Objective 2 by 10 years before the end of 2014, to keep the crack reactors open longer afterwards. There have already been madness in this country in the field of energy. That's the most crazy thing we've ever seen. I certainly hope that such a decision will not be taken in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u81	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 372 by Mr Vanvelthoven Question No 267, by Mr Demon President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u82	Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate you as President. I hope that we will be able to work well together in committee over the next few years. Mr Minister, my question concerns the law of 18 March 2014 on police information management. It provides for the establishment of a control body in the bosom of the privacy committee. That control body shall be composed of staff of the police services themselves and of external experts with experience in the processing of information and data protection. Strangely enough, that control body has still not been set up. The reason would be the lack of female candidates for the composition of this body. The Law of 18 March 2014 lays down a number of conditions for the permanent members of that control body, but does not provide for a specific number of members. We consider the establishment of this control body to be important. It's about processing police data. If anything goes wrong, we look at these organs. How was the call for that inspection body's candidacy made public in the last few months? Did that only happen through the channels provided for police officers? Does that include members of the CALog, as included in the law, or is it just about operational members? In the meantime, was a new candidacy published? If so, through which channels? When will you provide for the establishment of the control body? How is the control of police information processing going at the moment, since the control body has not yet been set up?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u83	Mr President, Mrs Heeren, I regret to say that the COC is no longer within my competence, but that it is the competence of the Chamber. So Parliament is taking care of that. If you want an answer to your questions, I think it is enough to contact your group leader, who normally has the information on them. In your analysis, you're right. I can tell you that a transitional rule was provided for in order to ensure the continuity of the body. It is not yet operational in Parliament's lap, for the reasons you have just mentioned. However, continuity is provided for, both in terms of staff and budget. There is therefore no problem with the operation, but it is no longer the responsibility of the government. That has become Parliament's competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u84	Mr President of the Commission, I propose that the question be put to the President of the Chamber, who is employed as recently as the Minister. In the Bureau of the Chamber, we could consider how that could be arranged.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u85	Mrs. Heeren, I'll take that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u86	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demeyer's 384 under agenda item 27 has already been answered. The last questions on the agenda are from Mrs Ben Hamou, who has been here since the beginning of this sitting and has been very patient before she could come to her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u87	Minister, 40,000 police officers and civilian staff of the Belgian police are concerned about the delay in the seasonal influenza vaccination programme. Beyond the public health problem, there is also the good functioning of the police services, which are repeatedly threatened at this time of year by a high rate of absenteeism due to the easily transmitted respiratory tract infection. This vaccination campaign is therefore of particular importance in the police areas, where it has for years been part of a comprehensive plan negotiated with the trade union world. The campaign traditionally starts on 1 November and ends on 31 December. At present, however, nothing would be ready, not even a fixed date. According to the press, the Council of Ministers would simply not have given the police authorities permission to proceed with the purchase of the influenza vaccine. As a reminder, this type of vaccine is not mandatory but highly recommended, given the consequences an epidemic could have on police services. Therefore, why have the police areas not yet received permission to purchase the vaccine? When are they going to receive it? Is the sustainability of this vaccination program in question? In this case, has social dialogue been organised in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u88	Madam, with regard to the influenza vaccine, I can inform you that the order form was sent to the firm on November 6th and that the vaccines have just been received by the federal police. The vaccination campaign can therefore begin.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u89	I welcome this news, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u90	Mr President, Minister, according to the press, 300 training courses giving access to the police inspector profession have just been cancelled nationally. In Hainaut, for example, 50 police candidates were admitted to the Provincial Police Academy in Hainaut. These 12-month training courses account for 75 per cent of the modules provided by police academies. In addition, it is my responsibility that, in the case of the Brussels ERIP, a budget freeze has forced the cancellation of the recruitment of several dozen aspiring candidates who have passed the admission tests, some of whom have had to resign from their positions in the private sector, without hope of return and thus found themselves without resources. After the announcement of the changes in the conditions for the end of career and the non-activity of police officers in the government agreement, the police world is now being amputated by these potential new recruits, despite the objectives announced by the previous majority of 1,400 new officers a year, objectives that your political formation did not fail to support when it was in opposition. Minister, how do you justify what looks like an abandonment of recruitment objectives? Do you have objective elements to consider that the situation on the ground would no longer justify these commitments? In this context, how do you envisage the future of police academies? Should this attitude not give rise to fear for the organisation of trainings continued throughout the career of police officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I refer to my detailed answer to the question put earlier by Mr Peter Vanvelthoven. I confirm the figures: almost 900 in 2014 after a federal training course supplemented by training requested and financed by police areas, such as Antwerp. In 2015, 800 aspiring candidates were budgeted. Finally, everything will depend on the outcome of the current construction projects. First of all, there is the pension file that I am trying to settle as quickly as possible; I intend to finalize it by mid-December. Then there will be the debate on the key tasks and, finally, the exercise of optimisation within the police services. These three projects will have to be finalized before they have a correct view of the needs in terms of police officers to be trained. In accordance with the government agreement, we will streamline cooperation between police schools through the development of synergies. This will be one of my priorities in the area of police training. But rest assured, police work is already difficult enough – we have seen it in the last few days – to be able to do without ongoing training. They remain necessary and will therefore continue to be dispensed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u92	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic015x.u93	Debates of the European Parliament 387 by Mrs Grovonius was postponed.
