ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u1	Mr President, Mr Minister, the signing in 2011 of the partnership agreement between local police areas, the Walloon Region and the Federal Police has put in place a whole series of actions aimed at repression and prevention of excessive or inappropriate speed. In particular, the Walloon Region proposed to finance the housings of fixed radars and the signs indicating them. In return, police forces had to commit themselves to carrying out more checks in areas at risk and on dangerous sections. The underlying idea was, of course, to reduce the number of accidents, especially fatal ones, on Walloon roads. But the prosecutor of the King of Liège, arrested by the chiefs of the various police zones, did not authorize the operation of the additional repressive radars put in place following the partnership agreement. Indeed, he justified his decision by insisting that prosecutors, in general, were overloaded with work and had to file numerous cases without further action. Therefore, this practice leaves some relatively serious offences unpunished, which significantly undermines the objective of the awareness-raising and repression campaigns carried out by the federal police and local police. It should be noted that fixed radar poles have a significant deterrent effect, whether or not they are equipped with a camera. Therefore, prevention can be done through these poles while not engulfing PV courts for traffic offences. In fact, today, verbalized persons are invited by the police to pay a certain amount as a result of the offence they have committed, allowing the dispute to be settled without overloading the prosecution. Minister, these are my questions. Do you confirm the situation that I describe to you that does not allow prosecutors to deal with all driving offences? What proportion of minutes are closed, according to your estimate? What is your strategy to address the congestion of the public prosecutor's office? Have you planned a consultation with the Federal Minister of the Interior and the Regional Ministers of Road Safety to agree on a joint action plan that will allow everyone to work in optimal conditions? And finally, to what extent is a King's prosecutor competent to prohibit a police zone from putting fixed radars on its territory? In this regard, I would like to highlight an abnormal situation, Minister. Areas that have already put on fixed radars are privileged because those that have delayed making the investment are now being refused. However, you know as well as I do that fixed radars reduce speed, resulting in a decrease in the number of accidents. This is, in any case, visible in the statistics. Why are you asking yourself about this case today? The Condroz police area, where I come from, made such a request, which was refused in writing by the King's prosecutor. I would therefore like your clarification of this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u2	Minister, my question is in the same direction as Mrs Cassart's. It concerns practices relating to the monitoring of speeding by prosecutors, which raises questions. There seems to be a difference in the policies of the different prosecutors' offices in the kingdom, which inevitably creates an imbalance, or even a difference in the treatment of citizens, depending on whether one is in a particular area, region or judicial district. Some citizens correctly pay the fines imposed on them, while others, having refused them, avoid a sanction that should normally be applied to them. Minister, are you aware of this situation? Do you confirm different tolerance regimes in different judicial districts? Is it true that some speeding is no longer verbalised by the police at the request of the public prosecutor's offices themselves? Do these practices correspond to instructions that would be given either by the Department of Justice or by the College of Attorneys General? What are you considering in order to remedy this situation? There is indeed a need to ensure equal treatment between citizens and to place the sanction at the centre of public action.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to point out that the gradual achievement of the objectives of the General States of Road Safety at the federal and regional levels leads to an increase in both the number of checks and the means of speed control on roads with radars. However, these objectives, which are of a police nature, are not always in line with the computer and procedural means and the capacity of the police prosecutors, who, of course, are also willing to contribute to road safety through the exercise of public action. As a result, unfortunately, the public prosecutor's offices concerned cannot deal with the entire increase in the flow of detection of authorized speed exceedances generated by fixed radars. The directives referred to by Mr Goffin are taken on a temporary basis according to the priority given or not to certain driving offences with a view to avoiding differences. As far as IT resources are concerned, I can refer to the implementation of the cross-border enforcement procedure. This procedure involves the development of the Mach computer programme available to prosecutors and aims to ensure the management of immediate perceptions in a dynamic and centralized way by better integrating police prosecutors into the processes. It concerns the immediate perceptions offered to offenders whether or not they are resident in Belgium. Its implementation and effectiveness will have to ensure a better collection of the amounts by the Federal State and the Regions, which will benefit from the transfer of revenue from regional road traffic offences from 1 January 2015. As far as procedural means are concerned, I refer to the payment order established by the Act of 22 April 2012 which will make it much easier for prosecutors to enforce the immediate unpaid charges by saving a summons in court. However, a new legal or restorative law is needed to make this procedure effective. I will consult with my colleague from Mobility, Mrs Galant. Of course, police prosecutors must make priority choices of prosecution, ideally in consultation with the police authorities, on the understanding that the King's prosecutor is already involved in a consultation with the administrative police authorities in the event of the installation of fixed equipment in accordance with the Royal Decree of 11 October 1997. There must indeed be consultation on the policy to be pursued, at least with the representatives of the Regions. For the Walloon Region, the consultation between the King's prosecutors concerned, the representatives of the College of Attorneys General and the Minister of Public Works, Health, Social Action and Heritage, Maxime Prévot, will take place on 17 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u4	I thank the Minister for answering Mr Goffin's and myself's questions. I think that work and consultation will still have to take place. I think we still need to move on with the case. On the other hand, minister, I do not think you have answered my question as to whether a prosecutor can, at any time, prohibit the installation of fixed radars in a given area. Does the prosecutor have the power to do that? As I said in my question, it is indeed clear that not all areas will be on an equal footing since some have invested a year or two ago, while others have planned a longer-term investment programme, and are now facing a ban on the placement of radars. So my question was very specific and you didn't answer it. I asked the Minister of the Interior the same question so that he could also point to an adequate answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u5	I would like to make a longer-term reflection in the context of the reform of the Criminal Code and the Criminal Investigation Code. Would it not be more useful to think about the fact that some of these offences should no longer go through the police court where a backlog can also arise, when it comes to pleading for an excess speed of 25 km/h, for example? Perhaps it would be interesting to remove such offences from the police court's scope of work, which sometimes wasted a lot of time in such cases, whereas they could be dealt with directly through the transaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u6	Mr Minister, I am asking this question in connection with the introduction of the family court. In this context, we have had a discussion on the right of minors to be heard. We used to have different systems in the context of special youth protection versus the general regulation of the right to hear. Now that has been made uniform and we have also ensured that a minor from 12 years of age is invited by the court to come forward. Under 12 years of age, the minor may take the initiative himself. In the case of the minor's right of hearing over 12 years, it was agreed that an effective note would be sent in writing to the minor concerned in which a number of provisions had to be stated. This has recently been done with the KB of 23 August 2014. I note that this provision provides for the minor to receive a letter, which is expressed as a free official if I may put it in such a way as to state that if he or she does not respond, he or she is not invited either, and it is assumed that he or she does not want to be heard. Since it is a general wording as we have provided for in the legislation, namely that he or she should be given the opportunity to be heard, the question arises as to whether, for example, there could be a reverse reaction. In the sense that if the minor doesn't let you know, that means that he or she wants to be heard. I know that this legislation has not been in place for so long and is in force, but I have already had several reactions to it, among other things, that the letter is not very easy to understand and so on. Hence my question whether at this short time you already have some insight into the effect of this hearing right in civil matters? Hence my question for figures. I also know that this new legislation did not exist in 2010. But it's to make a comparison between the past and the present. Do we see changes taking place there because of this new way of working or just not? Do we have the impression that the objective will be achieved, in particular that more young people could be heard effectively or be given the opportunity to speak on matters of interest to them? Has there been contact with the Commissioner responsible for children's rights on the Dutch or French side in connection with the drafting of the letter? After all, the letter is rather difficult to formulate about even among young people of plus 12 who already understand a lot. If necessary, can the letter be submitted to a reference group of youth organisations or youth organisations? Finally, is there any provision for an evaluation of this new procedure, including the way in which this letter is formulated? Can any adjustments be made?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u7	Mr President, Mrs Becq, the law on the family and youth court entered into force on 1 September 2014, and the right of minors to hear has been changed from then on. The law states that the minor will henceforth be informed by letter of his right to be heard. To this end, a model information form was drawn up by Royal Decree, which also specifies how the minor can accept or refuse the interview. The model was developed by my administration in collaboration with several youth magistrates on the basis of models of response forms that were already common in certain districts. The design of the model was not presented to the Commissioner for Children's Rights or the délégué général aux droits de löfenfant. Indeed, the model stipulates that the minor must state that he wishes to be heard and whether or not to return the letter electronically. In practice, this appears to be applied in a variety of ways. After all, it's just a model. Some courts inform the minor of his rights to be heard and at the same time invite him to a conversation on a given day and hour. The minor may then inform the court that he does not wish to go into that. Other courts first inform the minor of his rights and ask him to be heard. If the minor has expressed his wish to hear, an invitation will only be sent for an interview. Each method has its advantages. The essence is that minors are given an effective opportunity to express their opinion in matters of interest to them if they wish. The legislator, as you yourself say, wants minors to be effectively involved in the decision-making process in matters that concern them. However, it is still too early to comment on whether the objective of leaving more young people to speak is being achieved. The law of 30 July 2013 only entered into force three months ago. So far, I haven't picked up any disturbing signals from the magistrate. Only the Order of Flemish Baries has already given me the same concerns. My services do not have figures that indicate how many minors are actually being heard. It is also difficult to collect some figures in a very short period of time. The implementation of the law of 30 July 2013 is constantly being followed, including the issue you raised. If it is true that the right of minors to hear is not effectively applied in practice, I will take an initiative to correct the law or its implementation in the sense envisaged by the legislator. Finally, Article 273 of the Act of 30 July 2013 also provides for an overall assessment with a report to the Legislative Chambers during the seventh year following the entry into force of the Act. This evaluation will relate in particular to the functioning of the family court and, consequently, to the procedure relating to the hearing of minors.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u8	I thank the Minister for his reply. I knew that there was indeed an overall assessment of the law, but I also know that we had foreseen it in the relatively long term because it was intended to fully implement the scheme in the family court. I think it is important that you mention that the minor's invitation is used in different ways. I also assume that experiences are exchanged between magistrates of family courts. I understand from your reply that you will also consider an evaluation at a time of less than seven years for this and any adjustments that may be possible. I think we'll be watching that together.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u9	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 765 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u10	Mr Minister, I have a long question that was raised before the debate on the Justice budget, which has given a new light to everything. We know that the new prisons of Beveren and Leuze are still not running at the maximum capacity. On 3 November 2014, Beveren had 214 inmates and Leuze barely 90, while both prisons have a capacity of 312 inmates. I have already asked an oral question on this subject. At that time I was informed that the staff plan for the two establishments provides for 220 FTEs. At the end of the mutation cycle at that time, Beveren would count 214 FTEs and Leeuw 159.5. The fact that prisons are not yet fully operational is also due to the number of staff who have not yet been fully filled in. The more staff there are, the more prisoners can be taken care of. That was the intention, because we wanted to tackle the overcrowding of the other old Belgian prisons. Now it appears that for Beveren not the 220 FTEs nor the 214 FTEs will be reached. Beveren's prison will also have to save, although it was said that this was not going to happen, but we know what the situation is. One would get a maximum of 207 FTEs. Staff are therefore afraid of being too little to receive 300 prisoners by February. They fear that taking leave will be difficult and that their absenteeism will also increase, leading to an even greater shortage of staff. I don't have to explain it to you. Therefore, consideration would be given to allowing overpopulation in Beveren, although that would mean that the Belgian State would have to pay a fine to the private operator. This was also the subject of a consultation with the trade unions. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Is it correct that you waive the 214 FTEs for Beveren and the 220 FTEs provided for in the Staff Plan and that 207 FTEs are now being sought? If so, what savings will you make? How many FTEs are currently employed in Beveren? How many inmates are in that prison? Does the same savings also apply to the new prisons of Leuze-en-Hainaut and Marche-en-Famenne? If so, what does the staff plan provide for there? What was the original number of VTEs at the end of the cycle and how many will that be in the future? Does the same staff savings also apply to older prisons that have been in full employment for a long time? If so, where? How much should be saved? Do the staff savings in the new prisons affect the maximum number of prisoners that will be able to be taken care of? Does this mortgage the timing of being fully operational in Beveren by February? What was the outcome of the consultation with the trade unions on 2 December? Finally, is the prison system considering effectively allowing overcrowding in the new prisons? If so, what fine should the government pay to the private operator? How's that fine in proportion to the rent costs of Tilburg prison? Will the overpopulation be limited to one of the new prisons, or will that happen both in Beveren, Leuze-en-Hainaut and Marche-en-Famenne? Will the more limited maximum staffing be maintained even in the case of an overpopulation? When will the overpopulation be created? Minister, that is quite a sandwich, but thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u11	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, the prisons in Marche-en-Famenne, Beveren and Leuze-en-Hainaut were opened on 16 October 2013, 14 February 2014 and 20 May 2014 respectively. It was and is intended to make full use of these facilities as soon as possible, thus addressing the overpopulation and improving conditions. On 12 December 2014, 230 inmates were housed in Beveren's prison, which accommodates 312 inmates. The staff plan for Beveren prison provided 200 effectives in 2013. That number increased to 220 effectives in 2014. There are currently 220 employees in Beveren or 208.4 full-time units. In other words, the current staffing should be able to allow for full use of the prison by February 2015. In Marche-en-Famenne there were 310 detainees on 12 December 2014 and 133 in Leuze-en-Hainaut. The capacity in Marche-en-Famenne and Leuze-en-Hainaut, such as the capacity of Beveren's prison, is 312 places each time. The difference with Beveren is that within that capacity twelve places are reserved for female prisoners. The staff plan in both prisons is the same as for Beveren, being 220 effectives. In Marche-en-Famenne there are 229 staff at present and 171 in Leuze-en-Hainaut. These are 212 and 159.5 full-time equivalents, respectively. Marche-en-Famenne is therefore supposed to be fully operational by now. The prison of Leuze-en-Hainaut, which has been opened most recently, should soon be as well. At the moment, it is premature to make concrete statements on how savings and related measures would have an effect per penitentiary institution. First of all, the budget plan, which was announced in this committee when the budget of justice was discussed, needs to be worked out. Once decisions have been taken, there will be more clarity on the possible consequences for both new and older establishments. At the informal trade union meeting on 2 December 2014, only a number of ideas were raised by the Prison Administration. This was a non-binding reflection exercise at a start-up meeting of the consultations, which continues on this subject. In fact, I had a constructive meeting with the trade unions this morning. It made rationalisation a priority in the social dialogue in 2015, along with a number of other issues that concern the prison system. The questions about the further intentions of the prison system regarding the use of the new prisons are not only premature but also without object. The priority is to make full use of existing capacity and, in the long term, to further reduce the overpopulation throughout the prison system.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I am pleased to see that we want to work towards full capacity utilisation, and subsequently also on phasing-out, and that we want to avoid any overcrowding. I hope that trade union consultations can continue to be constructive and that solutions can be found at all levels. It is in the interests of both the government and the detainees and the penitentiary officials that a modus vivendi can be found. Otherwise, along with many others, I look forward to the budgetary plan, to know where we stand now, what we can still do, what we will not be able to do and how we will have to build from there on a performance of justice and a performance of punishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u13	Joined Questions No 683 by Mr Senesael and No 952 by Mr Maingain are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u14	Minister, the new SIDIS-Suite application was launched in September 2014. It replaced the old SIDIS application, which was decentralized in every prison. The new SIDIS-Suite application is a central application for all prisons, with each inmate receiving an electronic file. That is a huge advantage compared to the past, because the partially paper file of the prisoner had to move with him in case of transfer of a prisoner from one institution to another. The detention history of a detainee can no longer be lost, which has caused a number of problems in the past. The application also offers advantages in view of the prisoner's reintegration plan, which can be drawn up more easily. Even if the prison or PSD changes, the file remains available. The recommendations of former supervisors are thus retained and can be followed further, without having to start from scratch again. The new application also allows an individual detention plan, as registered in the basic law, to be implemented. We only started the new application two months ago. With a number of Members of this House, we have seen in Vorst how SIDIS-Suite is used, and I assume that it is now being used in all prisons. Minister, how do you experience the operation of SIDIS-Suite? Does the completely renewed computerization program meet the expectations? For the launch of SIDIS-Suite there were already plans for expansion. This included better integration or data exchange with the Siset application of the Länder Electronic Supervision. After all, the current limited link allows only to retrieve brief information about the detainees with the module get offender, as it apparently is called. A second planned extension is a link to the Foreign Affairs Office, whereby DVZ could directly enter data on the state of residence of an inmate in SIDIS, which could, of course, contribute to improved cooperation with DVZ with a view to the removal of illegal criminals, in accordance with the different policy statements and notes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u15	Minister, two years after it was launched, I would have wanted to know where we are in the implementation of this Sidis-Suite program. Is it fully operational? By which public services is it used? Has an evaluation of the operation of this programme already been carried out? If so, what improvements are you planning to make to the system?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u16	Mrs Van Cauter, it is the administration of EPI, which is a user of the application intended to direct the prison registry and from there the various other applications that must be in contact with it in and outside the prisons. The administration of EPI tells me to be satisfied with the initial results of what has already been achieved. As far as she is satisfied, I am satisfied. Efforts are now being made with regard to integration and data exchange with the Siset application, which controls electronic monitoring. To this end, the foundation of SIDIS suite had to be realized. The Siset application also had to undergo some updates. They're on the move. We can expect more data exchange to be possible systematically. I can give the same answer to your question concerning the link to the application of the Foreign Affairs Office. There, too, steps are being taken to enable more data exchange. The answer to your final question has therefore already been given. I will continue the strategy of my predecessors, drawn up after the failure of Phenix. Mr Goffin, in his first version, the application is already functional. As you know, it is always necessary to correct bugs. New features are also regularly added. Many updates will naturally have to follow. This application is currently being used in transplants in all prisons. As I have just indicated, we are now systematically working on the exchange of data with other services. The services that use it in the field have indicated to me that they are satisfied with this first version. Of course, they, like you and I, expect this evolution to continue. The following phases of the project are: - the search and removal of bugs, - the addition of additional features requested by users, as long as they can work with the application, and which are part of what is called "functional maintenance", - interconnection with other authentic sources and applications (internal or non-departmental) which allow the exchange of information in a digital way.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In any case, it is a good thing that efforts have been made to arrive at one electronic file per sentenced person, even if there are links with other departments such as the Foreign Office or the Länder. With a view to reintegrating and executing the sentence, the file is now centrally managed so that it can be easily consulted by anyone who needs access to it. I think that is a good thing. You have also confirmed that you will continue to follow up the dossier and ensure that the system is further developed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u18	Same thing. I would add that the will of the government, and yours in particular, to continue this effort of computerization also goes through this. Work still needs to be done in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u19	Minister, I may be a little quick with my question, but better too early than too late. As part of the state reform, a number of powers have been transferred to the Länder, including the justice houses and juvenile prisons. The Länder thus also have an important role to play in the alternative execution of penalties, such as working time, electronic surveillance, probation and so on. Many of their tasks are covered by federal legislation. It was therefore decided to set up an inter-ministerial conference. The secretariat and the tractor role would be provided by the FPS Justice Department. In the meantime, there are a number of dossiers for which coordination between the Länder and your department is already necessary, Minister. You know them, too. It concerns the evaluation of GPS electronic monitoring, with possibly necessary repair legislation. There is the entry into force of probation and electronic surveillance as an autonomous punishment. There may be a delay before entry into force, but there is no delay and it is necessary to start as soon as possible. There is also the adaptation of the electronic transmission note to the introduction of electronic surveillance as an autonomous penalty. There is the adjustment of the short-term penalty letter, as agreed in the government agreement, in particular on the implementation of the last sentences up to four months. There is also the evaluation of the Probation Act, and so on. In the meantime, there would not have been an inter-ministerial conference and it would not have been planned. Has the secretariat of the Inter-Ministerial Conference been established yet? If not, when do you plan to do so? Is a first inter-ministerial conference under way?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u20	The establishment of an Inter-Ministerial Conference Justice Houses is provided for in Article 2 of the Cooperation Agreement concluded on 17 December 2013 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the French Community and the German-speaking Community with regard to the performance of the tasks of the justice houses. Article 2 of the Cooperation Agreement provides that the Federal State, represented by its Government in the person of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice, and the Communities within an IMC Justice Houses shall consult on problems arising in the performance of the duties of justice houses. The IMC is also the forum for prior consultation on any change in the functions of the justice houses and any initiatives that have or may have an impact on the implementation capacity of the justice houses in the performance of their mission. The creation of the IMC Justice Houses is necessary because the Sixth State Reform empowers the Communities to carry out the tasks entrusted to justice houses in the context of judicial proceedings or in the execution of judicial decisions. The federal government and the actors of justice remain responsible for the input of the justice houses. These actors remain competent to determine when a social investigation is to be carried out, when a summary information report is made, in which cases a person is subject to supervision and when the person concerned is required to comply with certain conditions, such as training, guidance or treatment. In view of the urgent need to set up the IMC Justice Houses, I am currently preparing a memorandum for the Council of Ministers to approve the referral to the IMC Consultation Committee. A working group consisting of the Directorate-General of the Courts and representatives of the Communities drew up a draft IMC's internal rules. This working group proposes that the IMC Presidency should be held for a period of one year. The first presidency of the IMC will be held by me. The Secretariat will be assured by the services of the President of the Justice Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u21	I am pleased that you are making the necessary preparations for the Inter-Ministerial Conference. In addition to drawing up regulations, it will also be important to meet effectively. The necessary reforms and cooperation on the subject that concerns all of us must be pursued. Good coordination on the ground is necessary. You will also want to follow up on this, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u22	Mr President, Minister, it is a very short question that has actually been addressed in part during the debate on the budget. Nevertheless, I would like to have your views and your views on this matter. You quoted it yourself, and I can only repeat it; it is amazing to note that the shipping costs in the Justice Department include effective astronomical amounts. These amounts undoubtedly weigh very heavily on the budget. It is important for citizens to be properly informed and given access to documents as provided for in the law. We are all aware of this, and we fully support it, but that does not mean that we can look for savings on costs that are made in a useless way. Costs that could also be eliminated in a simple way. One of these was an example that came to my attention and was presented by the police court in East Flanders, Oudenaarde department, where we were informed that when decisions were dropped and asked the Registry to return the decisions endorsed, by post as it traditionally happens; members of the desk were informed that this would no longer be done by post but by fax. It seems to me to be even simpler and less costly by simply sending an e-mail stating that the decisions were received and deposited on date x, possibly with a scan of the decisions. I read the question as asked. There is no need for legal intervention in order to generalise this daily, but it could in any case achieve significant savings. Are you willing to put that in? I do not know how this is done as a minister, through a fatherly advice, or how should I put it, to the various Registrys, in which a great deal of cost can be avoided in this way. Perhaps there are still such practices to come up with? Maybe I should have a plan to come up with one every week. In the long run, I think, that could make a lot of savings. And perhaps I should encourage my fellow Members to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u23	Mrs Van Cauter, I do encourage you to do the same. In the coming months, you will be aware that, in my role as Minister of Justice, I can not only behave fatherly but also have to comply with the letter of the law. You refer to the budget of the judicial order as an item of expenditure that could be saved. I fully agree with you. That's not as simple as it looks. Nevertheless, I have the ambition to change this, but I am always cautious when it comes to concrete promises, especially when IT developments are necessary. As I have indicated in my policy statements, I want to focus primarily on procedural simplification. In that case, understand whether everything that is sent still has to be sent and then in the current way. I will already include in the poutpourri draft a number of simplifications that will reduce port costs. In addition, the need to send mail will be reduced by the realisation of the IT system of Justice. It will be possible to reduce the port costs as electronic authentic sources arise and applications can exchange data with each other. As for your specific example, my two predecessors had launched an e-griffie project aimed at achieving electronic communication between the Registry and the outside world. In line with my answers to your previous questions of today, I will continue this strategy here too. This requires legislative intervention to allow and structure electronic communications and ICT development. Since the counters gave the signal by Stefaan De Clerck have understood that they have to create an authentic source of lawyers. They picked up that signal and created that authentic source. Now the Justice ICT service and the ICT service desks can take the steps towards electronic communication. I hope that, within the legal profession too, the culture will emerge in order to communicate as much as possible and all electronically. It cannot be that we will be left with two methods in the future, namely paper and electronic communications. That will only make things more complex. The profits we make would be too limited. Of course, there must be a transitional period in the cultural change. The initiative to which you refer, however commendable, is not really in line with the approach adopted by my predecessors. As an intermediate solution, this is a local initiative that is also carried out under the responsibility of stakeholders: electronic authentic signature, guarantee of origin, time stamping, integrity documents, etc. I want to make maximum use of structural solutions, as I am asked by the desks in this matter. All temporary patchwork I try to avoid, if I can. We must ensure that people on the ground are not overwhelmed by ever new temporary changes. We'll kill the willingness to change. Again, I don't want to kill local flowers that bloom. My answer, as I myself often do, is split up, Mrs Van Cauter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u24	Minister, I have listened to your answer. What you say about the structural approach, the electronic file and the authentic source is entirely correct and we also know the efforts made by the OVB in cooperation with your predecessors. However, we are still faced with the high postal charges that have to be paid year in, year out. You know very well from practice that what I come to ask you now... when it comes to making conclusions, there is no legislation or any article in the Civil Code or any other code that needs to be amended in order to make a notification of receipt. Today the notification of receipt is still made by post, with a stamp. You also know that decisions are sometimes thick packs of paper, which are returned and this is not one, but two, three, four and five times just with shipping costs. I just wanted to say it anyway. I know your answer has been prepared. But I'd like you to think about that. I would like to hear you say that it is a local initiative and commendable, and so on. I refer to JustX, which you yourself referred to in connection with your policy statement. It was an official of the Justice Department who came up with the idea and worked out the idea. This proved to work in the end with regard to the computerization of justice. These are also of those small initiatives that, possibly when they are followed, can absolutely render literally and figuratively, especially if you put your shoulders on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u25	Minister, the JustX project and database judgments and judgments were launched in early 2014. In that sense, it is groundbreaking that the previously co-existing, incompatible basic applications.......................................................................................................................................................................................... In the meantime, the roll-out should be completed at the courts of appeal. My specific question is how you experience the operation of this database. Does this answer the expectations? Quid with the roll-out at the level of the court of first instance? Can this be expected to start? In a subsequent phase, following judgments and judgments by the Court of Appeal and after first instance, the criminal record would also automatically be added to the database of judgments and judgments. This results in an automatic or almost automatic integration of new judgments and judgments into the criminal record. It is a very old fact that the criminal record is not up to date but is adapted to current events with a few months' delay. This makes it very difficult for those who have to speak justice to get a right on the judicial history of the person concerned. In addition, other difficulties are caused. Mr Minister, I come to my final question about the database of judgments and judgments. This will be the first application used by all courts and courts. As this database is expanded, it will play an important role in the realization of JustX. In reply to my previous question, you have alluded to the role of lawyers and the electronic file. Can this system be extended to the other procedural documents so that not only the lawyers can access it, but also the bailiffs can have access to subpoenas, experts to expert reports, etc.? For example, there could really be an electronic file within the judicial order. This is absolutely a foundation that needs to be built on. How do you see the timing of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u26	Mrs Van Cauter, the database of judgments and judgments is not intended to replace the ten existing applications. It's a project that's standing next to it. There's no database like that today. The intention was and is to create a database that should then be connected to the applications you are talking about. It is true that the computerization of the Justice Department does not run smoothly. I was able to establish this with you last week when we discussed the budget. The database is not in the roll-out phase, but the pilot phase is almost over. Following the latest tests, existing court applications will be able to be systematically linked to the database. Only then can the start-up with the roll-out, understand the connection with the various court applications, take place. In reply I can say that I feel this is a good initiative. Due to the delay in the previous announcements, I cannot say whether it meets the expectations as it has not yet been delivered. I cannot abide by the timing originally promised in view of the backlog. I will therefore not be guilty of announcing deadlines for the realisation of ICT. As in most cases, this is particularly dangerous. Its relativity is again evident from your question. I will communicate especially when we have realized something. The link to the criminal record was and is planned. This isn't a subsequent phase. Charging the judgments and judgments in the database will be done operationally simultaneously with the maintenance of the criminal record. This will not solve all the problems of the criminal record, but it will be an important step. Finally, we will build on the computerization of justice based on the strategy outlined by my three predecessors after the failure of Phenix. They have abandoned the big-bang strategy and have launched a strategy of systematic building up of the various necessary components of the overall IT system of Justice. So is going to follow that line. It is sometimes difficult to bear that our institutions still have to work in many cases with computer applications dating back to the last decades of the last century.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u27	Mr President, Minister, we will come back to that later. Thank you for your answer for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u28	Merged Questions 747 by Mr Terwingen and 937 by myself are postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jiroflée's 815 reply was received during the debate on the policy paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u29	Mr. Speaker, Minister, Parliament approved last spring a law allowing women who are the wives or partners of a child's biological mother at the time of birth to become co-parents. This important legislative and symbolic advance allows both members of a lesbian couple to recognize and raise the child they have conceived together without having to go through the absurd procedure of intra-family adoption. The new law will come into force on January 1, 2015. If a co-parent is married to the biological mother, she will automatically be considered the mother of the child. If the mothers are not married, it will be for the co-parent to go to the municipality to recognize the child, with the consent of the biological mother, as is already done for heterosexual couples. And it's doing very well. Minister, my questions are as follows. Given the novelty and relative complexity of the process of establishing the filiation in question, will the municipalities receive or have already received a circular or other administrative document enabling them to understand the process and thus apply it to the best possible extent? Have any information booklets been produced for the municipal staff or the public concerned? If so, do they have or will they be coordinated with the relevant voluntary sector, namely the LGBT community?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u30	Mr President, Mr Hellings, the Act of 5 May 2014 establishing the parent's parentage will come into force on 1 January 2015. My administration is preparing a circular for registrars to inform them of the scope of the provisions that they will be required to implement. As you know, last week the House passed a bill that amends the above-mentioned Act of 5 May 2014 to bring it into line with the Act of 8 May 2014 on the transmission of the name and also makes certain essential amendments to the Code of Private International Law. This bill also makes corrections to the Act of 5 May 2014 on the filiation of the co-parent. He imported that my administration should take note of the final text adopted by Parliament before being able to finalize the drafting of the circular. As far as the content of the law is concerned, I would like to point out that the establishment of the parent's filiation is governed almost identically to the establishment of the father's filiation. When children are born in the context of marriage, filiation is established automatically through the presumption of comaternity. Therefore, when the birth is declared, the wife will be immediately included in the birth certificate as a co-parent. In fact, the rules and exceptions are identical to those applicable to paternity. The filiation of children outside marriage can be established by recognition. The relative modalities do not differ from those of paternal recognition. The application of this law should not in principle give rise to problems when it comes to establishing the parent's parentage. Civil registrars already have a great deal of expertise in the establishment of paternal filiation. It could be transposed mutatis mutandis to the establishment of the co-parent. In addition, civil registry officers will be able to rely on the circular that is being drafted. Finally, information on this new law will be provided by both the above circular and the Justice FPS website.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u31	Minister, hearing full equality was an objective of the law. As it goes better by saying, you have just explained it, I think the circular will make it very clear how this is going. This reassures me perfectly about the provisions to come. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u32	Question 831 by Mrs Jiroflée received an answer during the discussion of the policy paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u33	Minister, a judge of the Court of First Instance in Liège decided on a unilateral application that Farid Le Fou Bamouhammad could be released from prison for medical reasons. In the plenary session on 4 December, I questioned Minister Peeters on the matter. That reply showed that you had immediately filed a third-party complaint and that the first session took place on Tuesday 9 December. Meanwhile, we saw the statements in the media of Farid Bamouhammad's counsel. He said the hearing was only good to determine a conclusion calendar. The lawyer boasted that his client would be free by the end of January. It didn't even last that long. Apparently, the man recovered very quickly after his hunger strike. He would have left the hospital last week as a free man. You have probably also seen the interviews with his counsel, who added a few more. I'm still surprised at that file. Minister Peeters replied to my question that you would consider whether the provisions of the 2006 law on the external legal status of convicted persons with regard to the provisional release could be put into effect for medical reasons. Those rules really provide for more guarantees, both in terms of content and procedure. In the meantime, you have announced that you would look into how a President in the interim proceedings could be unauthorized for such matters, because the criminal court has simply been set aside here. What happened at the 9 December session? Was it true that a conclusion calendar was determined? When will the matter be discussed on the substance? I assume that at least until then the person concerned will be a free man. What timing do you use to bring into force provisions of the external legal status law? What will be the difference with the current regime? Mr Peeters did not answer some of the questions I asked in plenary, and I would like to know your views on this. A very important precedent was created. If a prisoner goes on hunger strike and then turns to a judge who decides that he or she can't heal as long as he or she stays in prison, while there is a reason for imprisonment, and if that practice is followed, then we are in a dangerous situation. It can be a way out for others: if it has worked for the person concerned, why shouldn't there be another? We also worked very hard on the role of the victims in the criminal proceedings. We have tried to give them more guarantees and to involve them more in the procedure, but the one-sided petition procedure simply put all that aside. Not only the Belgian State was not heard, but also the victims, the family, did not get a vote. However, we know of previous release of the person concerned that he immediately took his family hostage. There is therefore a certain amount of concern. If the precedent is used by others and the victims are ignored throughout the procedure, I think it is important to adapt a number of procedures in view of the precedent value. What concrete initiative will you take, whether through the potpourri law or not? Finally, Minister, do you have a view of how many prisoners are still on hunger strike today? This may be an indication of how urgent action needs to be taken to prevent others from going on that slope.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u34	Ms De Wit, on 9 December last, the judge in the Bamouhammad case decided that the pleas would take place on the substance of the case on 13 January 2015. Before that date, the Parties may exchange in writing conclusions. In view of the decision of the court still in force, the person concerned is still exempt for medical reasons. As far as your second question is concerned, I have drawn up a draft Royal Decree to bring into force the relevant provisions of the Law of 17 May 2006 on the external legal status of convicted persons. The draft is before the Council of State for its opinion. The difference with the current regime is that the provisional release for medical reasons will be regulated by law and that the judiciary, in this case the criminal enforcement court, will decide on the granting of the exemptions and on the withdrawals on the basis of a legally determined procedure. It is difficult to assess the precedent value of the decision. The judge made a judgment here in an individual case. As I said, the provisions of the external legal status law provide for more safeguards. For example, Article 74 (3), second paragraph, which has not yet entered into force, provides that the victim is to be informed as soon as possible and at least within 24 hours of the granting of the exemption. The law does not provide that the victim is involved in the award decision. After all, there is no hearing. The subject matter of the request is largely medical and the exemption is provisional. By making the criminal enforcement court specifically competent for the exemptions for medical reasons, it is possible to avoid such decisions being taken by the court in interim proceedings. According to the data provided by the penitentiary administration, there is currently one convict on hunger strike. It is not clear whether he is relying on a precedent.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u35	Minister, I am glad that initiatives are taking place so quickly. Not only the Members of Parliament, but also the people outside do not understand this. I still don't understand the judge's reasoning. According to him, imprisonment would be detrimental to the recovery of the person concerned, but there is, of course, a reason for that imprisonment. That's the world upside down. There is, of course, a separation of powers. So it's hard to do anything about that. However, I am pleased that legislative action is being taken. There may also be other guarantees with the Royal Decree, so that such matters can no longer be repeated. After all, justice can no longer have much of such matters. We've had enough as it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u36	Minister, for many years the Standing Committee I has been calling on the government to implement Articles 19 and 20 of the Act regulating the intelligence and security services. Those articles govern the exchange of information and cooperation between the Belgian intelligence services and other intelligence services and public authorities. According to paragraph 3 of Article 20, it is the Ministerial Committee which determines the conditions under which this can be done. "Recent studies show once again that there is an urgent need for regulation in this area," the Committee I reports in its 2013 annual report. The EESC therefore urges the urgent implementation of these articles and considers it necessary for a proposal to be made by the intelligence services by mid-2015. I have the following questions. Firstly, do you follow the recommendation of the Committee I? Secondly, what progress has been made in preparing for the implementation of Articles 19 and 20 of the Act regulating the intelligence and security services? Thirdly, by when do you intend to submit the decision to the Council of Ministers and bring the conditions into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u37	Mr Van Hecke, cooperation and exchange of information with foreign intelligence and security services is a very important tool for the security of the State in building and strengthening an information position that is useful for detecting and identifying certain threats and risks to our country. The legislator recognised this in 1998 through Article 20 of the Act of 30 November 1998 regulating the intelligence and security services. This provision obliges our intelligence services to enter into such partnerships. With regard to the various recommendations made by the Supervisory Committee of the intelligence and security services, the so-called Committee I, over the years, I can tell you that I have committed myself to identifying which of these recommendations can be translated into concrete measures. That this is not an empty promise proves the first steps already taken in this direction. Last Thursday, a large delegation of my policy cell had a first working meeting with the management of the Committee I. As regards your first two specific questions on the cooperation and exchange of information between intelligence services, as has already been said, all relevant actors are currently assessing what recommendations can be translated into concrete measures and how to do so. The recommendation on international cooperation is also logically discussed. However, it is important that such measures do not come exclusively from the Justice Department. The Minister of Defence should also be involved, as he has custody of the Military Intelligence and Security Service. As far as your third question is concerned, it is difficult at the moment to tell you exactly when such a proposal will be submitted to the government. However, since the legislator decided in 1998 that a government directive should take the form of the Ministerial Committee on Information and Security, this specific recommendation of the Committee I is being considered with the necessary priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u38	Minister, as you say at the beginning of your reply and as my questions have shown, there is indeed a problem of following up the recommendations of the Committee I, not only on this particular aspect, but also on other aspects. Hence the other questions I have tabled and I will probably get the same answer. I do not blame you, because this is indeed a situation which has existed for a long time and on which the Committee I has made several comments in the annual report. The law has existed since 1998. We are 16 years away, so I think it is time to get to work on that. I look forward to the initiatives you will take in these.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u39	Mr President, in its 2013 activity report, the Committee I looks more closely at the follow-up of the intelligence services. For example, it raises major questions in the categorization of the State Security Database. This database contains data on groups, persons, places and events. To keep the database workable, it is linked to one or more legal threats. It could be extremism, proliferation or interference. There are four types of left. Information is for info or to determine whether it is a pertinent link or an operational link. The Committee I considers that these are not clearly defined and applied. It therefore calls for a review and a clearer definition of the role of these persons by, for example, indicating whether a political officer has been mentioned as a simple passerby, possible victim, key figure or actor. I could refer to a recent event, a recent report in which the names of politicians were mentioned without any specific mention being made in what capacity. I therefore have a few very specific questions. Do you support the criticism of the Committee I and would you also like the State Security to review the concepts of the classification of its information? Secondly, if so, how do you intend to address this problem? At what time do you think you will have worked out a solution? Thirdly, what is the position of the State's own security? Are they prepared to take effective account of this recommendation in their daily practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u40	Mr Van Hecke, as regards your question about the follow-up of political mandates by the intelligence and security services, and in particular by the security of the State, it is important to know that this service does not have a mandate to succeed individuals in their capacity as political mandatearies. However, during the performance of her intelligence mission, a political officer may pass through the picture. I believe that, in a democratic state such as our data processing, the Minister of Justice deserves the necessary attention in such a case. It is a sensitive and important issue, which presupposes a clear and legitimate settlement. With regard to your specific questions 1 and 2, there is little point in going into the information system of the State Security as described in the 2013 Committee I activity report. On the one hand, changes have already been made to the relevant State Security Service Notes during the Committee I's monitoring review. The instructions contained therein were drawn up in consultation between the intelligence services and the Minister of Justice. On the other hand, it is now necessary to examine whether these new instructions are sufficient in the light of the final results of the monitoring study in question and the corresponding recommendations of the Committee I. As regards your third question, Jaak Raes has been an administrator-general of State Security since April 2014. It has already indicated that it is also in favour of an evaluation of the existing, although renewed, procedure and that, if necessary, the system should be adapted.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u41	Mr President, Minister, I note that there is indeed a will in the leadership of the State's security to examine the practices that existed and, if necessary, to adapt them in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee I. I think we may have to wait for another report from the Committee I to see whether this has changed in a positive way.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u42	Mr President, Minister, Article 21 of the Intelligence and Security Services Act provides that personal data processed by intelligence services may be kept for a limited period. The exact deadline and procedure must be determined by the government in a royal decree. However, this has not yet happened. In 2012, the then Minister of Justice adopted a draft decision. The Commission for the Protection of Privacy gave its opinion on this at the beginning of 2013. Then, as far as we could verify, the file fell silent again. In its 2013 annual report, the Committee calls once again for this Royal Decree to be implemented, particularly as the intelligence services may be in breach of Article 8 of the ECHR. What about the preliminary draft Royal Decree of 2012 which was recommended by the Commission in 2013 for the protection of privacy? What steps do you plan to take in relation to this royal decree? Will you continue with the existing preliminary draft? If yes, do you intend to respond to the requests of the Privacy Commission? Some very fundamental comments were made on the draft royal decree in 2013.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u43	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, on your question on Article 21 of the law on intelligence and security services, which deals with the retention and destruction of personal data, and in particular on the draft royal decree to implement this provision of law, I can inform you that this dossier is currently being studied by my services. The draft Royal Decree in question was indeed submitted to the Commission for its opinion on the protection of privacy. On receipt of this opinion, the draft was amended, taking into account the Committee's comments. In the meantime, advice was also sought and obtained from the Council of State. As regards your second and third questions, the following. As for most of the regulatory issues applicable to intelligence and security services, joint action is needed by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence. In the first instance, therefore, there will be consultation with the Minister of Defence in order to be able to take a common position.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u44	Mr Minister, it is new to me that, following the advice of the Privacy Committee, work has been continued and that the comments of the Privacy Committee have apparently been taken into account. This is very important, because a number of very fundamental comments have been made on the retention period as well as on the retention of data which are known to be incorrect or incomplete. The latter shouldn't be allowed. I look forward to the initiatives you will take, in consultation with the Minister for Defence. I hope that we will see progress in this area in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u45	Minister, keeping drugs outside the prison walls is not an easy task. It is well known that drugs circulate in most prisons, despite attempts to combat them. For prisoners who are in prison for drug offences, that's a problem. They continue to come into contact with drugs in prison and thus do not get rid of their addiction. They do something about it in Bruges prison. There's a drug-free wing. This initiative is appreciated by inmates who want nothing more to do with drugs. Unfortunately, the wing is only for male prisoners. Recently there was a case of a female inmate convicted of drug use and received an additional sentence for drug use in prison and asked to be transferred to a drug-free wing. It now appears that there is no such initiative for female detainees. Minister, there are separate toilets for men and women. This is, of course, another matter. How do you evaluate the drug-free wing of the Bruges prison? Is it efficient? How many inmates are currently in the drug-free wing? Is there a waiting list of inmates who want to move to this wing? Are there any drug-free wings in other prisons? If so, where? How many prisoners are there and is there a waiting list? Will you take an initiative to start a drug-free wing in a women's prison for female inmates as well? If so, what, by when and how many prisoners will be able to stay there? If not, why not? Does this not mean that Belgium can be condemned for discrimination in the treatment of its prisoners? Are there plans to extend the concept of drug-free wings to other prisons for men? If so, what, by when and how many prisoners will be able to stay there?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u46	Minister, you will allow me to quote a testimony from a former prisoner in Verviers Prison. "The drug is banned, but it is more than tolerated. The drugs are coming back. I know a lot of people out here who don't touch drugs, not even a joint or drink alcohol. But here, they take heroin altogether. It's not drug addicts who go back to prison, it's the prison that manufactures drug addicts. Because drugs are easier to find here than outside." This testimony questions the question. Drug-related problems are not new in prison. According to a study cited by the SPF Justice, two out of three Belgian prisoners have already used an illegal drug. It is essential that people who use drugs, whether they have started before or during their detention, be assisted and accompanied throughout their detention. It therefore seems useful to me to take stock of the drug policy in prisons. Minister, what is the current drug policy in the country's prisons? Are there any preventive measures to prevent, to the extent possible, prisoners from becoming drug addicted while in detention? Are drug addicts specifically cared for in these institutions? Is this possible in all institutions? How is drug addiction detected in prison? Drug policy in prisons must be aligned, as far as possible, with that of free society. How do you plan to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u47	Mrs De Wit, Mr Goffin, the programme of the drug-free section of the Bruges prison was re-directed on two points. The first adjustment concerns the provision of a programme to avoid relapse, both during and after detention. In cooperation with external drug assistance, there is a weekly group session on the prevention of relapse and individual counselling for those inmates who cannot work in groups or talk about their drug problem. This adjustment is the result of the finding that the majority of detainees in the drug-free department are ex-users, inmates who want to stop using drugs during their detention. Only a minority of potential candidate inmates for the drug-free ward are inmates who have never used drugs and suffer from drug abuse in prison. They are prisoners who wish to distance themselves from the drugs problem and their consequences, such as extortion, are put under pressure to use, etc., by running for admission to the drug-free department. The second adjustment was made in the area of the withdrawal programme, such as the phasing out of the opiate substitution programme in the context of opiate dependence, but also the provision of guidance in the phasing out of psychopharmaceuticals or sleep and tranquilizers. More than 400 prisoners have applied for inclusion in this section. Of the 400 prisoners, 70 per cent were positively assessed, after a screening interview, during the trial period of demonstrating, supporting urine testing, that they had spent a month in a cell without drug use. These detainees did indeed begin their stay in a drug-free section (SSD). The evaluation is therefore positive. Demand for SSD is higher than supply. The existing support for the withdrawal of prisoners is too limited: weaning programme by substitution of opiates in the context of the dependence on opiates as well as the withdrawal of psychotropic substances. Adjustments to the prison's infrastructure are also necessary; I think, for example, the separation of prisoners and the appropriate regime. The general conclusion with regard to the future approach to the drug problem in prisons is that there is a need to invest in existing drug projects. There is clearly a demand from drug addicts, a decrease in drug abuse and a willingness to treat both during and after detention. This is why the extension of the large-scale application of existing projects is indicated. This requires, however, that resources be devoted to it. An extension to Oudenaarde is envisaged, but this project is still only at the preliminary stage. In fact, Mrs De Wit, the situation is more difficult for female prisoners. There is no real women's prison, in the sense that even where women are located in separate buildings, these are departments of existing establishments each time. For example, Berkendael is part of Prince's prison. Divorce of the female prisoners is therefore still more complicated than with men. For the time being, we cannot promise that we will be able to achieve an enlargement for women.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. On the one hand, I understand that it is not obvious, but on the other hand, I know from experience how easily prisoners who enter clean prison become less clean over time. Given the circumstances, I can understand this better in some prisons than in others. This problem applies to women as well as to men. I hope you will see an opportunity to resolve this problem, although I understand that you cannot promise it. Women inmates with a drug problem, like male prisoners, should have the right to get into such a wing as there is. I hope that you will find a solution, not by placing those involved in a separate wing, but by offering them more intensive guidance and withdrawal programmes, even though they do not reside in a separate wing. After all, we know that if a drug problem is not resolved, the story starts again after the end of the sentence or after the release under conditions. Those who are addicted run a much higher risk of relapse than those who can get clean into society.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u49	Minister, between 10% and 15% of Belgian motorists currently have a radar alarm. The Federal Police cooperates in terms of road safety with the company responsible for the distribution of "Coyotes". But police or Justice can also use this device to locate a person or vehicle through the built-in GPS. This cooperation raises some questions. Have the police or justice ever used Coyote to locate a person or vehicle? Is this cooperation subject to specific legislation? Is respect for the privacy of motorists with a Coyote guaranteed?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u50	Mr. Goffin, the federal police confirm to me that they never called Coyote to locate a vehicle or a person. In the case of the use of the information contained in the telephone integrated with the Coyote, the legislation on the control of means of communication will apply. Article 88bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation states that it is for the investigating judge to request, by means of a reasoned order, the technical assistance of a telecommunications operator or the provider of a telecommunications service where there are circumstances which make this information necessary for the manifestation of the truth. As for your third question, yes, the privacy of Coyotes users enjoys the same legal protection as that offered in Belgium to any user of a conventional means of communication, such as gsm or landline telephone.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u51	Mr President, Minister, I would like to come back to a specific point concerning the social work carried out in prisons by psychosocial teams. Many fixed-term contracts have been called into question and expire on 31 December 2014. The deadline is therefore very close. Both in the press and in the House, we talked a lot about the two psychologists of the Paifve Social Defence Institution (SDS) care team. As far as this issue is concerned, the end has been positive and I thank you for that. There are, however, other situations that have not yet been resolved. We have just learned that at the psychosocial team level, the SPS teams, as many as five psychologists and two social workers are threatened on 31 December. I would like to draw your attention to this situation, but I would also like to point out a particular case, because for one of the institutions affected, the SPS service has only one psychologist and its contract expires on the above date. This is Huy's settlement. Minister, can you confirm that the contracts of the two psychologists of the Paifve ESD team have actually been signed? Can you confirm the threats to the total of seven contracts? What will be the outcome of this case? Can you tell us what action you intend to take? Finally, more precisely, can you tell us what particular fate will be reserved for Huy's establishment? How can this facility operate without any psychologist on board?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u52	Mrs Matz, I can tell you that the extension of the contracts of the two psychologists of the Paifve ESD care team was submitted this morning to the visa of the Finance Inspector of the Justice FPS. These contracts are extended until November 30, 2015. The remaining 7 contracts are also extended. For three psychologists, including Huy's, it's a three-month contract extension. For two psychologists, the contract was changed to an indeterminate contract. For the two social workers, this is a three-month extension of the contract. I hope to be able to extend these contracts longer but pending the overall plan that I want to present to you in early February 2015, I was unable to ask my administration for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u53	Thank you for those answers, Minister. They're more positive than I've heard. For two of them, these are open-ended contracts. For the others, this is a three-month extension. I fully understand that you must be clear before considering a definitive follow-up to these contracts. However, I would like to insist, but I think that this has been done extensively in the budget discussions, on the work that can also be done in prisons. It is of paramount importance if the prison is to serve something and be a place of reintegration in addition to a place of punishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic040x.u54	Question No 922 by Mrs Khattabi is postponed. Minister, because we will only be two until the end of this meeting, I propose that you turn the rest of my questions into written questions which will allow you to sail under other skies.
