ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u2	The next item is the appointment of the Permanent Bureau. The next item is the nomination of the final Bureau. 1. The Bureau shall be composed as follows: - the President, - the three Vice-Presidents; - and the Bureau members. 2. The Office shall be supplemented by: - former Presidents, members of the Chamber; - the chairmen of the political groups; - an additional member per political group with fewer than 12 members who are not members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. 1 member of the Office referred to. 1. The Bureau shall be composed as follows: - the President; - three Vice-Presidents; - and members of the Bureau. 2. The Bureau shall be supplemented by: - former presidents, members of the House; - the chairmen of political groups; - one associate member per political group with fewer than 12 members and without a member of the Bureau referred to in point 1. The President shall be elected in accordance with Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The Vice-Presidents and members of the Bureau shall be appointed by the Chamber in accordance with Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure. 1, first sentence, on a proposal from the political groups, including the Presidency in the allocation of these posts according to the proportional representation of the political groups and with as many members as is necessary to ensure that each political group with at least 12 members has at least one member of the Bureau. The President shall be appointed in accordance with rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The Vice-Presidents and members of the Bureau shall be appointed by the Chamber in accordance with Rule 158(1), first sentence, and on the proposal of the political groups, provided that the Presidency is taken into account for the allocation of these functions in accordance with the rule of proportional representation of political groups and that as many appointments are made as is necessary for each political group of at least 12 members to have at least one member on the Bureau. Before the vote, one or two desks of voters must be set up, each consisting of four members to be appointed by lot. In the past, it is important to appoint, for the purpose of counting the ballots, one or two offices of deputy returning officers each composed of four members to be appointed by lot. I propose that our two secretaries be appointed as voters, since they are the youngest members of our assembly. Are you sure you don't mind? (No) Thus shall be done. I suggest that you appoint our two secretaries as deputy returning officers, as they are the youngest members of our assembly. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u3	The only election to be held is that of the President of the Chamber. The only appointment to be made is that of the Speaker of the House. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u4	Mr President, as a candidate for the presidency of the Chamber, I propose Siegfried Bracke, on behalf of the largest group in the hemisphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u5	Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I am presenting the candidacy of Mr André Flahaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u6	Mr President, the choice of President is particularly important for our group. The President or President will have to accompany the Chamber at particularly difficult times and it is particularly important, especially in current cases, that the audit function be exercised on its merits. From this point of view, we are recommending Meyrem Almaci's candidacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u7	Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, we are recommending the candidacy of our experienced colleague Patrick Dewael.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u8	Since the number of candidates exceeds the number of places to go, we must take a vote. As the number of candidates exceeds the number of places to be filled, a ballot should be taken. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. First, the voters are summoned so that they can take up their duties at the tables in Room 3. The tellers will be called in the first place so that they can perform their duties near the tables installed in room 3. I would point out that only the ballot papers bearing the name of a candidate nominated for the vote are valid. Are invalid votes cast on a larger number of candidates than there are vacant seats. I would like to remind you that only ballot papers which mention the name of a candidate presented before the vote are valid and that the votes cast in favour of more candidates than there are any seats to be filled are invalid. I invite the youngest members from the names to be called. I invite the youngest members to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u9	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? The vote is closed. I invite the voters to proceed to the vote. I declare the ballot closed and invite the deputy returning officers to proceed with the counting. I'm suspending the session for a quarter of an hour. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u10	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed. These are the results of the secret ballot for the appointment of the President: The result of the election for the President's appointment is as follows: Votes 137 Votants Blank or invalid 4 White or invalid Valid 133 Valables Perfect majority 67 Absolute majority Mr Siegfried Bracke obtained 52 votes. Mr Siegfried Bracke obtained 52 votes. Mr André Flahaut obtained 36 votes. Mr. André Flahaut obtained 36 votes. Mr Patrick Dewael has won 32 votes. Mr. Patrick Dewael obtained 32 votes. Mrs. Meyrem Almaci has won 13 votes. Ms Meyrem Almaci obtained 13 votes. Since no candidate has obtained the absolute majority, a second vote should be taken. Since no candidate obtained an absolute majority, a second ballot should be held.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u11	Mr President, I have just read the results and I ask for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u12	Mr President, I would like to support Mr Frédéric's proposal. It is clear that there is still no support within Parliament for one particular candidate. For our group, it is essential that the President-in-Office of the Council should give an opinion on the proper functioning of Parliament, even in the short term. We would like to use the suspension to have access to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u13	Are there any other requests for suspension of sittings? [[No]] I shall suspend the meeting until 3.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u14	You want 15 minutes? I shall suspend the meeting until 3.30 p.m. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u15	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed. I give the floor to Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u16	Mr President, it is clear that our group is an advocate for a smooth and efficient decision-making process. We have noted that we have not had the opportunity to listen to the President-in-Office of the Council and their plans in the last 15 minutes. It seems to us to be a matter of courtesy and elegance to be able to listen to them at least, given that Parliament, at least according to our group, has to make an important choice in this matter. We don't have to exaggerate. Our group would therefore like to ask very explicitly to extend the suspension by at least 20 minutes and thus give us the opportunity to enter into discussions with the candidates. This seems to us to be an obvious position for a Parliament, especially in the current context of current affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u17	Mr President, I assure you right away: we are not going to ask to count the votes again. Could the various candidate presidents possibly explain how they view this function within Parliament and, in particular, out of respect for the smaller political groups, their involvement in the parliamentary democratic process? We therefore join the Ecolo-Groen Group's request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u18	I question the group leaders in a very democratic way. The Regulations do not provide for this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u19	Mr President, I hear the request, but in my personal capacity I know the candidates on whom we are going to have to decide. Moreover, any parliamentarian - old or new - who follows the political developments of this House knows perfectly the candidates who would still be in the running since it is all brilliant parliamentarians who have already carried out a number of important battles and have held high office in this House. I want us to try to delay decisions. But for my part, Mr. President, I am one of those who want to get to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u20	Mr President, if unexpected and unknown candidates had entered the battlefield, Mr Calvo's remark might make sense. However, we know each other well and I do not see the importance of this suspension.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u21	Mr President, that is a clear position for Mr Jambon. Our group is trying to make a constructive exercise in these circumstances. We have had the opportunity to listen openly to a particular candidate's view of parliamentary operation in the short term. If other Presidents-designate do not feel the need to be very clear about our group in this respect, then we take note of that. That too would be a matter of respect for all Members of this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u22	Mr President, I do not have the honour of chairing an important group. Nevertheless, I have some seniority in this House. Above all, I do not expect a presidential candidate to have an electoral program; that is the last thing a Speaker of the House is expected to do. I expect a Speaker of the House to apply the Rules of Procedure, which is our rule of operation, common to all parliamentarians. Whether the candidate has an experience or not, it doesn't matter! What matters to me is whether he is committed to respecting the Rules of Procedure. I do not expect any less from a candidate for the Speaker of the House. Then, if we wish to review the Rules of Procedure, the Sovereign Assembly will decide. We will certainly all have formulations to make. The President's impartiality is the only guarantee of the proper functioning of this House. I do not have to judge the merits of either criterion, but this alone must be our assessment when deciding on the application.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u23	Indeed, in my opinion, Mr. Maingain has just spoken very accurately. Moreover, unless I am mistaken, he is the oldest in this House; I am not talking about the oldest. Am I wrong? All right, but it'll come.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u24	Mr President, our group simply wants to ask our group and other groups to give us 15 minutes to consider the second vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u25	The Rules do not provide for repeated suspensions of sittings.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u26	Mr President, at the outset we asked for a longer suspension than the 15 minutes granted.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u27	I granted a five-minute suspension, which I extended to fifteen minutes. I'd like to make a little communication. In view of the results of the first round, in the interest of the institution and our institutions in general and in order to ensure their proper functioning, after consultation with my group, I decided to withdraw my candidacy for the presidency of the House. [[Applause]] We have three candidates. Does Mrs Almaci withdraw her candidacy?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u28	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you sincerely for your attitude on this matter. Our group wants to make the same serene constructive exercise. You are introducing a new element: there is one candidate less. It goes without saying that this strengthens our conviction. We are therefore asking for a ten-minute suspension, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u29	This does not change the applications that have been submitted since it was on my own initiative that I decided to withdraw mine. Three candidates remain for the second round of the ballot, namely Mr Siegfried Bracke, Mr Patrick Dewael and Ms Meyrem Almaci.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u30	Mr President, my explanation has not yet been completed. I note that the proposal for a further ten minutes of consultation is not supported by Parliament. No problem at all. In the same constructive and serene atmosphere, I would like to point out that Mrs Almaci is withdrawing her candidature in the hope of facilitating decision-making.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u31	Two candidates remain: Mr Siegfried Bracke and Mr Patrick Dewael. We shall now proceed to the second secret ballot for the appointment of the President. We shall proceed to the second ballot for the appointment of the President. I invite the youngest members from the names to be called. I invite the youngest members to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u32	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? The vote is closed. I invite the voters to proceed to the vote. I declare the ballot closed and invite the deputy returning officers to proceed with the counting. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u33	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed. These are the results of the second secret ballot for the appointment of the President: The results of the second election for the President's appointment are as follows: Votes 141 Votants Blank or invalid 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. White or invalid Valid 139 Valables Perfect majority 70 Absolute majority Mr Patrick Dewael has won 86 votes. Mr Patrick Dewael obtained 86 votes. Mr Siegfried Bracke obtained 53 votes. Mr Siegfried Bracke obtained 53 votes. Since Mr Patrick Dewael obtained the absolute majority, he was appointed President of the Chamber. Since Mr. Patrick Dewael obtained an absolute majority, he was elected Speaker of the House. I would ask the President of the Chamber to sit at the Bureau. (Applause) I ask the Speaker of the House to take a seat on the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u34	Statement by the President Address by the President
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the House for its confidence. No one will say to me that I first and foremost look at André Flahaut and thank him very much and congratulate him on the way in which he has chaired our Assembly over the last few months and years. Today, too, he has committed an act which he himself described as an act in the interests of the institutions. I thank him for everything. Bravo! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, thank you again for your confidence. I think we should follow a certain parliamentary logic. I am well aware that this is a temporary mandate. This is a temporary mandate and I am very aware of it. However, I believe that after elections this Parliament has all the powers. As I said to those in charge of information and then training, I very much hope that a federal government will be established as soon as possible. In the meantime, a Parliament must look after our democratic duties. It is my ambition, on the one hand, to give the person entrusted by the Head of State with an information and later perhaps a formation mission the opportunity to form a federal government as soon as possible. In the meantime, however, Parliament must do its job. We need to do our job. We must therefore agree on this matter as soon as possible and we shall proceed to the composition of the parliamentary committees. I remember that a very long time after the 2010 elections we stayed here in a temporary situation. Don't get me wrong. I would like to express the wish that such a situation will now take much less time. At that time, however, Parliament took credit for the fact that it has effectively adopted a number of basic legislation, both in committee and in plenary. In the coming weeks, your chairman will, if necessary, effectively convene Parliament and the committees. We must make good agreements in this area. We are the only beacon of confidence for our citizens in today's political uncertainty. I would like to leave it at that. I would just like to thank you once again. For me, the seat of President is not entirely new. Once again, I would like to express the wish that, in the current temporary period, we could make effective agreements with all the groups. Madam Registrar, it is now time to move on to the composition of our Bureau. I thank you and look forward to good cooperation, as has been the case in the past. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u36	The next item is the appointment of the three Vice-Presidents and the members of the Bureau. The three Vice-Presidents and the members of the Bureau should be appointed. Agreement the Articles 3. 1 and 158. 1 of our Rules of Procedure we appoint in the following order 1 N-VA, 1 PS, 1 MR, 1 CD&V, 1 N-VA, 1 Open Vld, 1 sp.a and 1 Ecolo-Green. In accordance with article 3. 1 and 158. 1 of our Rules of Procedure, we must name in order 1 N-VA, 1 PS, 1 MR, 1 CD&V, 1 N-VA, 1 Open Vld, 1 sp.a. in 1 Ecolo-Groen. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u37	Mr President, we propose Peter Luykx as Vice-President and Sarah Smeyers as member of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u38	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u39	Mr President, I propose that Mr André Flahaut be nominated as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u40	Mr President, I propose that Mrs Françoise Schepmans be nominated as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u41	Since the number of candidates corresponds to the number to be placed, I declare Mr Peter Luykx and Mr André Flahaut and Mrs Françoise Schepmans elected Vice-Presidents of the Chamber. The number of candidates corresponding to the number of places to be filled, I declare MM. Peter Luykx and André Flahaut and Françoise Schepmans as Vice-Presidents of the House. Then I'll come to the other Bureau members.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u42	Mr President, my group proposes Mr Eric Van Rompuy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u43	Ms. Smeyers is a candidate for the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u44	Mr President, my group proposes Mr Dirk Van der Maelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u45	Mr President, my group proposes Mr Stefaan Van Hecke as Bureau Member.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u46	Are there any other candidates?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u47	Mr President, I am not applying because we do not have a group. However, I would like to denounce this method of appointing members of the Bureau, which grants a monopoly to parties forming political groups. Why must there be two categories of people's representatives? On the one hand, those who belong to a political group and have all the rights and, on the other hand, those who do not belong to a political group and are treated as second category Members. It would be time to make our political system truly proportional rather than making it an obstacle route for certain formations. As one political scientist pointed out, whose sympathy for our party cannot be suspected: with 250,000 votes, the PTB has only 2 elected members in this assembly, while with 650,000 votes, the MR occupies 20 seats. Each of these 20 MR seats was thus obtained with four times less votes than one PTB seat. Logically, it seems to me that my vote in this House should therefore be worth four times more than an MR vote. The route is long and I could enumerate the various obstacles: the d'Hondt key, the 5% threshold, the recount of votes denied to the PTB but granted to the sp.a, the access to the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation denied to our Brussels elected officials, the access to the Senate denied to all our regional elected officials... All this in a system where Parliament is a judge and a party, Belgium being one of the only countries in Europe, with Italy and Romania, where there is no independent commission to judge disputes. After this course of obstacles, here we are, but we would have less rights than Members who were each elected by fewer voters? All the formations represented in the House should be able to make up a political group, it seems to me, regardless of the number of seats obtained. In short, it would be time to better respect the voters' choices and open the windows of this House to a wind of reform. For this, it may be necessary to dig the windows first!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u48	Colleagues, earlier, Mr Maingain called for respect for the Rules of Procedure. That's what I do. If you wish to amend the Rules of Procedure, I invite you to table proposals that will be discussed. But the procedure followed today is fully in line with the rules in force. I declare Mrs Sarah Smeyers and Mr Eric Van Rompuy, Dirk Van der Maelen and Stefaan Van Hecke elected members of the Bureau of the Chamber. I declare Sarah Smeyers and MM. Eric Van Rompuy, Dirk Van der Maelen and Stefaan Van Hecke as members of the House Bureau. The Office shall also include: - former Presidents, members of the Chamber; - the chairmen of the political groups: . Mr Jan Jambon, Chairman of the N-VA Group; - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, . Mr Daniel Bacquelaine, Chairman of the MR Group; . Mr Raf Terwingen, Chairman of the CD&V Group; . Ms Karin Temmerman, Chairman of the sp.a. Group; . Mr Kristof Calvo, Chairman of the Ecolo-Green Group; . Mr Patrick Dewael, Chairman of the Open Vld Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u49	- an additional member per political group with fewer than 12 members who do not have a member of the Bureau. I give the floor to the chairman of the CdH Group, who has not been appointed to the Bureau by the Chamber, for the appointment of an additional member. The following members of the Bureau are also members of the Bureau: - former presidents, members of the House; - the presidents of the political groups: - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u50	- one associate member per political group with fewer than 12 members and without a member on the Bureau. I give the floor to the chair of the cdH group, who does not have a member of the Bureau appointed by the House, for the appointment of an associate member.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u51	Mr President, according to all the names you have just listed, I would not be present at the Bureau?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u52	You're there as a group leader.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u53	Since you didn't quote me, I was just asking you the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u54	And you are also entitled, according to the Rules of Procedure, to this associate member. So we need a name. It cannot be yourself if you remain group leader – I assume that is your ambition – and you must also appoint an associate member.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u55	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Brotcorne will be an associate member.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u56	That is clear and I thank you. I declare Mr Christian Brotcorn an associate member of the Bureau. I declare Mr Christian Brotcorne elected as an additional member of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u57	The Chamber has been declared lawful and complete. This will be notified to the King, the Senate and the Community and Regional Parliaments. The Chamber is constituted. This will be made known to the King, the Senate and the Parliaments of the community and of the region. That Kammer ist zusammengestellt. Seine Majestät der König, der Senat sowie die Regional- und Gemeinschaftsparlamente became hiervon in Kentnisgesetzt worden.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u58	In accordance with Article 43 of the Act of 23 March 1989 on the election of the European Parliament, the Court of Justice shall rule on the validity of the electoral procedures and any objections raised pursuant to the provisions of this Act. Pursuant to Article 43 of the Law of 23 March 1989 on the election of the European Parliament, the Chamber shall decide on the validity of the electoral operations and on any complaints brought on the basis of the provisions of the aforementioned Law. I propose that these assignments be entrusted to a special committee of seven members, composed by lot. I propose that you entrust the examination of these duties to a special committee of seven members composed by lot. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. We shall now proceed to the drawing up of the names of the seven members of this special committee. We shall now proceed to the drawing of lots of the names of seven members of this special committee. Mr Werner Janssen, Mrs Anne Dedrij, Mrs Leen Dierick, Mr Elio Di Rupo, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mrs Isabelle Poncelet and Mr Rob Van de Velde were appointed members of this committee. M. Werner Janssen, Mmes Anne Dedrij, Leen Dierick, MM. Elio Di Rupo, Jean-Marc Nollet, Isabelle Poncelet and Rob Van de Velde are appointed members of the said Committee. On 4 June 2014, Mr Philippe Lamberts, Ms Monika Dethier-Neumann, Mr Erwin Schöpges and Ms Saskia Bricmont asked for a detailed and detailed report on the conduct of the European elections to be drawn up by the Home Affairs Office respectively. By complaints of 4 June 2014, Mr Philippe Lamberts, Ms Monika Dethier-Neumann, Mr Erwin Schöpges and Ms Saskia Bricmont respectively requested a detailed and detailed report on the conduct of the European elections by the Internal SPF. By letter dated 10 June 2014, Mr Karel De Gucht renounced the exercise of his mandate as a Belgian Member of the European Parliament. By letter of 10 June 2014, Mr Karel De Gucht gave up his Belgian term of office in the European Parliament. These objections and letters shall be sent to the special committee responsible for examining the validity of the electoral procedures and the objections relating to the European elections of 25 May 2014. These claims and this letter are referred to the special commission responsible for examining the validity of the electoral operations and the claims relating to the European elections of 25 May 2014. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u59	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed. I give the floor to Mr Rob Van de Velde, rapporteur of the special committee responsible for examining the validity of the electoral procedures and the objections relating to the European elections of 25 May 2014. I give the floor to Mr Rob Van de Velde, rapporteur of the special committee responsible for examining the validity of the elections and the complaints relating to the European elections of 25 May 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u60	Mr President, I should like to draw your attention to the report by the special committee responsible for examining the validity of the electoral procedures and the objections relating to the European elections of 25 May 2014. The meeting was attended by Mr Di Rupo, Mrs Dedrij, Mrs Dierick, Mrs Poncelet, Mr Nollet, Mr Janssen and Mr Van de Velde. Today, on Monday 30 June 2014, your committee was instructed by the plenary to communicate its conclusions on the validity of the electoral process of 25 May 2014, both as regards the elected effective Members of the European Parliament and their successors, pursuant to Rule 43 of the Act of 23 March 1989 on the election of the European Parliament. Your committee was instructed by the plenary meeting on Monday 30 June 2014 to communicate today, pursuant to Article 43 of the Law of 23 March 1989 on the election of the European Parliament, its conclusions on the validity of the electoral operations of 25 May 2014 with regard to both the elected members of the European Parliament and their alternates. At its meeting on 30 June 2014, your committee took note of the minutes of the election, drawn up and signed respectively by the members of the head office of the Dutch, French and German-speaking electoral college, as well as of the assembly states, drawn up by the provincial headquarters. At its meeting on 30 June 2014, your Commission took note of the minutes of the election, drawn up and signed respectively by the members of the main offices of the Dutch electoral college, the French electoral college and the German-speaking electoral college, as well as the summary tables drawn up by the main offices of the province. Since the electors listed below have demonstrated the conditions of nationality, enjoyment of civil and political rights, age, residence and linguistic entitlement and registration on a Belgian electoral list, as laid down in Articles 1 and 41 of the aforementioned Act. Whereas the elected representatives justified the conditions of nationality, enjoyment of civil and political rights, age, residence, linguistic affiliation and registration on a list of Belgian voters, as laid down in Articles 1 and 41 of the above-mentioned Act. Since an objection was lodged, the scope of which is explained below. Whereas a claim has been lodged, the subject matter of which is set out below. By registered letters of 4 June 2014, pursuant to Article 43 of the abovementioned Act of 23 March 1989, the following persons lodged a similar objection with the Registrar of the Chamber of Representatives: - Mr Philippe Lamberts, domicilized in Norbert Gille, 84, 1070 Brussels; - Ms Saskia Bricmont, dominated at rue du Gouvernement 12, 7800 Aat; - Mr Erwin Schöpges, dominated at Tömmel 11, 4770 Amel; - Mrs Monika Dethier-Neumann, donated at Weiherhof 13, 4701 Eupen-Kettenis. By registered mail of 4 June 2014, the following persons lodged identical complaints with the Clerk of the House of Representatives, in accordance with article 43 of the above-mentioned Act of 23 March 1989: - Mr Philippe Lamberts, domiciled avenue Norbert Gille 84, 1070 Brussels; - Ms. Saskia Bricmont, domiciled on Government Street 12, 7800 Ath; - Monsieur Erwin Schöpges, address for service in Tömmel 11, 4770 Amel, - Mme Monika Dethier-Neumann, d.o.b. am Weiherhof 13, 4701 Eupen-Kettenis. The proposers in the main order argue that, as a result of computer problems, a number of votes were not taken into account in the cantons of certain electoral groups (2 000 according to the objection). They also criticise the lack of monitoring of the progress of the procedure to correct the problem and the new calculations carried out to obtain the final results in the cantons where the computer problems have arisen. The claimants claim, in main order, that because of computer problems in counting votes cast in the cantons of certain electoral districts, a number of votes (2,000 according to the claim) were not taken into account. They also criticise the failure to monitor the progress of the procedure with a view to solving the problem and the new counts made with a view to obtaining the final results in the cantons where computer problems have arisen. The objection calls for the government to submit a detailed report on this matter to the Chamber of Representatives. The purpose of the complaint is to obtain a detailed report from the Government on this matter to the House of Representatives. Having regard to the letters addressed to the President of the Chamber of Representatives of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for the Interior and Equal Opportunities of 6 and 16 June 2014 concerning the procedure for validating electoral activities and the information relating to the "informatics bug' and their annexes. Having regard to the letters addressed to the President of the House of Representatives by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for the Interior and Equal Opportunities, dated 6 and 16 June 2014, concerning the procedure for the validation of the vote and the information on the "computer bug", as well as their annexes. Having regard to the report of the College of Experts in charge of checking the electronic voting and voting system of 19 June 2014 (DOC 54 0014/001-2014 BZ), Having regard to the report of the College of Experts on the Control of the Automated Voting and Counting System, of 19 June 2014 (DOC 54 0014/001-2014 SE), Since these letters and the aforementioned report explain in detail - the nature of the problem which has arisen, - the actions taken to resolve the problem and to calculate and verify the final results of the voting; and the report contains a number of recommendations in order to avoid a repetition of the problem. Considering that these letters and this report explain in detail: - the nature of the problem which has arisen; - the operations which have been carried out to solve this problem, to calculate and verify the final results; and that the report makes a number of recommendations to prevent the recurrence of this problem. Since, as is apparent from these letters and the accompanying documents, the problems of data processing have in no way influenced the distribution of seats between the parties and the report confirms this. Considering that, as can be seen from these letters and from the attachments and as confirmed in the report, the computer problem could influence the distribution of seats among the lists. Finally, the applicants do not dispute this and therefore do not request that the elections to the European Parliament be declared invalid in the cantons concerned. Considering, finally, that the applicants do not contest this point and therefore do not request the invalidation of the elections for the European Parliament in the cantons concerned. Does your committee consider that the letters of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for the Interior and Equal Opportunities of 6 and 16 June 2014 and the report of the College of Experts in charge of checking the electronic voting and voting system of 19 June 2014 already meet the objection? Your committee is of the opinion that the letters of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior and Equal Opportunities of 6 and 16 June 2014 and the report of the College of Experts responsible for the control of the automated voting and counting system of 19 June 2014 respond to the requests made in the complaint. Two members have put a number of questions to the two legal experts from the Home Office, Mr Régis Trannoy and Mr Etienne Van Verdegem, in order to clarify the origin and consequences of what is called the "election bug'. The experts have already provided the first elements of the answer. Two members were able to ask two legal experts from the Internal SPF, Mr. Régis Trannoy and Mr. Etienne Van Verdegem, a series of questions in order to obtain clarification on the origin and consequences of the so-called "electoral bug". The experts provided the first elements of a response to the facts. The experts will provide the President of the Chamber with the certification reports on the digital transmission (CODI and DEPASS). The experts also reported that the question of possible legal action relating to the additional costs of the operations carried out is being examined. The experts will provide the President of the Chamber with certification reports on digital transmission (CODI and DEPASS). The experts also indicated that the question of possible legal actions related to the additional cost of operations was analysed. The Chairman of the Committee proposes that the issue of the "election bug" should be further examined soon at a meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, in the presence of the Minister for the Interior. The chairman of the committee suggested that the question of "electoral bug" could be discussed quickly at a meeting in the Committee on the Interior, in the presence of the Minister of the Interior. Since the minutes of the general counting of the votes of the head offices of the Dutch and French electoral college do not give rise to any comments; since the minutes of the head office of the German electoral college also mention the computer problems mentioned above and the head office, for this reason, declared 69 votes invalid, but at the same time designated the effective member and the successors as elected. Considering that the minutes of the general count of the votes of the main offices of the Dutch and French electoral colleges do not require any comment; that the minutes of the main office of the German-speaking electoral college mention the same computer problems and that the main office has, because of these computer problems, cancelled 69 votes, but that, however, it has proclaimed the election of the actual member and the alternate members. Finally, in view of the foregoing, your committee proposes that the election be valid for the candidates designated as Members of the European Parliament by: In view of the above, your committee proposes to validate the election of the candidates who have been nominated as members of the European Parliament by:
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u61	Green - Staes Bart. Flemish Interest - Annemans Gerolf Open Vld - Verhofstadt Guy - Neyts Annemie - De Gucht Karel sp.a. - From Brempt Kathleen N-VA - Van Overtveldt Johan - Stevens Helga - Demesmaeker Marc. - Louis Ide CD&V - Thyssen Marianne - Belet Ivo.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u62	MR - Michel Louis - Frédérique Ries - Deprez Gérard. Ecolo - Lamberts Philippe PS - Arena Marie - Tarabella Marc - Bayet Hugues. cdH - Rolin Claude
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u63	CSP - Arimont Pascal and proposes that your committee declare the election valid of the candidates appointed as successors to the European Parliament by: and your committee proposes to validate the election of the following candidates, who have been declared alternates for the European Parliament by:
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u64	Green - Holemans Dirk. - Deblaere Eline - Wittebolle Astrid - Platteau Eva - Bambust Fran - Avijn Philippe - Vroonen Frank. Flemish Interest - From Rooy Sam. - Van Nieuwenhuysen Luk - Samyn Ellen. - The Lobel Hilde. - Vandenberghe Rien - Moths Nadine - Van den Nieuwenhof Josée Open Vld - The Backer Philippe. - Vautmans Hilde - Wierinck Dear - Brugada Terradellas Pedro - N. - Gheysens Moniek - Vanderborght Bram sp.a - Sheep Nick. - Kilic Yasin - Vandenbroucke Pieter - Peeters Emilie - Buyse Jutta - Verduyckt Kris - Lamas Sanchez Patricia N-VA - Loones Sander - From Bossuyt Anneleen - Packet Ralph. - Van Noppen Flor - Van den Broeck Ann-Sofie - Stassijns Veerle - N. CD&V - Thinking about it, Tom. - Cousin Marilyn. - Breyne Paul - Landuyt Sofie - From Dessel Lucas. - From Geel Christina. - Caluwe Ludwig French Election College
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u65	MR - Ladouce René - Gol-Lescot Carine - Lespagnard Bertrand - Hazette Pierre - Parent Françoise - Rizkallah-Szmaj Julie Ecolo - Saal Caroline. - El Hajjaji Hajib - Marneffe Catherine - Depuydt Anne - Constant Jean-Marie - Invited Bernard PS - Seminara Franco - Hariche Faouzia - From Daele Daniel. - Jadot Michel - Celik Duygu - Meersman Céline cdH - Tanzilli Antoine - Grafé Jean-Pierre - Nyssens Clotilde - Coquelet Martine - Yildiz Cevdet - Aynaou Nayyha German-speaking electoral college
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u66	CSP - Creutz-Vilvoye Patricia - Frank Luc. - Franzen Daniel - Dhur Marion - Karthäuser Bernd - Xhonneux Fabienne In addition, your committee proposes to postpone the declaration of validity of the successors who have so far failed to fulfil the eligibility conditions: Your committee also proposes to adjourn the admission of the following alternate candidates, who have not yet justified the conditions of eligibility:
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u67	Open Vld - Terlauw Jan N-VA - Mutambayi Laurent These elected representatives are included in the parliamentary document DOC 54 0013/1, which was made available to you. The list of these elected representatives is contained in parliamentary document DOC 54 0013/1, which has been made available to you. It should be noted that Mr Karel De Gucht, elected on list No. 7 (Open Vld) renounced his mandate by letter of 10 June 2014. He is therefore succeeded by Mr Philippe De Backer, first successor. It should be noted that Mr Karel De Gucht, elected from list 7 (Open Vld) of the European Parliament by the Dutch Electoral College, gave up his term of office by letter of 10 June 2014. He shall therefore be replaced, as the holder, by the first alternate, Mr Philippe De Backer. The report was adopted with five votes in favour and two abstentions. The report was adopted by 5 votes with 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u68	Is anyone asking for the floor? I put the committee's decisions to the vote. I shall put to the vote the conclusions of the committee. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 119 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court declares the electoral procedures valid. Accordingly, the Chamber proclaims the validity of the electoral operations. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u69	Mr President, allow me to briefly state our abstention. This is in line with Mr Hellings' intervention during the previous plenary session. It has been established that during the elections, the high mass of democracy, the moment when everyone should be confident, a lot of things have gone wrong. Hence our abstention. I am pleased to note that the chairman of the committee has just suggested that we should hear the experts from the Home Affairs Committee on the outstanding questions, a proposal which our group supports. That's a good suggestion. In this way, we in Parliament can quickly resolve and answer the outstanding questions. That suggestion certainly deserves to be followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u70	We'll take that with us, colleague Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u71	We must proceed with the appointment of the members of the parliamentary conciliation committee. We must make the appointment of the members of the Parliamentary Conciliation Committee. Pursuant to Rule 13 of the Rules of Procedure, the Chamber shall appoint eleven permanent members from among its members for the parliamentary conciliation committee referred to in Article 82 of the Constitution, including the President of the Chamber. The Chamber shall appoint the same number of alternates. Pursuant to Rule 13 of the Rules of Procedure, the Chamber shall appoint eleven members from among its members who shall constitute the parliamentary committee for consultation referred to in Article 82 of the Constitution and shall include the Speaker of the Chamber. The Chamber shall appoint an identical number of alternates. Pursuant to Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, these appointments shall be made in accordance with the proportional representation of the political groups. Pursuant to Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, these appointments are made on the basis of proportional representation of political groups. The breakdown is as follows: - 3 members of the N-VA Group and 3 alternates; - two members of the PS Group and two alternates; - 2 members of the MR Group and 2 alternates; - 1 member of the CD&V Group and 1 alternate; - 1 member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and 1 alternate; - 1 member of the SP.A Group and 1 alternate; - 1 member of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and 1 alternate. Here is the breakdown: - 3 members of the N-VA group plus 3 alternates; - 2 members of the PS group plus 2 alternates; - 2 members of the MR group plus 2 alternates; - 1 member of the CD&V group plus 1 alternate; - 1 member of the Open Vld group plus 1 alternate; - 1 member of the sp.a. group plus 1 alternate; - 1 member of the Ecolo-Groen group plus 1 alternate. The group chairmen informed me of the names of their candidates: - N-VA: permanent members: Jan Jambon, Theo Francken, Peter Luykx; alternates: x, x, x - PS: large leden: André Frédéric, André Flahaut; plaatsvervangers: x, x - MR: permanent members: Philippe Pivin, Damien Thiéry; alternates: x, x - CD&V: permanent member: Raf Terwingen; alternate: Jef Van den Bergh - Open Vld: permanent member: Patrick Dewael; alternate: Dirk Van Mechelen - sp.a: permanent member: Karin Temmerman; alternate: Dirk Van der Maelen - Ecolo-Green: permanent member: Kristof Calvo; alternate: Jean-Marc Nollet The group presidents sent me the names of their candidates: - N-VA: staff: Jan Jambon, Theo Francken, Peter Luykx; alternates: x, x, x - PS: staff: André Frédéric, André Flahaut; alternates: x, x - MR: staff: Philippe Pivin, Damien Thiéry; alternates: x, x - CD&V: effectif : Raf Terwingen; supplier: Jef Van den Bergh - Open Vld: effectif : Patrick Dewael; alternate : Dirk Van Mechelen - sp.a: effectif : Karin Temmerman: alternate : Dirk Van der Maelen - Ecolo-Green : effectif : Kristof Calvo; alternate : Jean-Marc Nollet Since the number of admissible applications corresponds to the number of places to go, the number of places to go shall, in accordance with Article 157. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be allocated, there shall be no vote in accordance with rule 157. 6 of the Regulation. I hereby declare elected candidates who have been nominated. The list of members of the Chamber who will be part of the parliamentary conciliation committee will be published in the Brief Report and in the Integrated Report. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated elected. The list of members of the House of Commons who will make up the Parliamentary Concertation Committee will be published in the Summary Record and the Full Report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u72	By letter of 10 June 2014, the Brussels-Capital Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 10 June 2014, the Parliament of the Brussels-Capital Region announced that it had constituted itself at its meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u73	By letter of 11 June 2014, the United Assembly of the Joint Community Committee informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 11 June 2014, the Assembly meeting of the Joint Community Commission announced that it had constituted itself at its meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u74	By letter dated 12 June 2014, the Council of the Flemish Community Commission informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 12 June 2014, the "Raad van de Vlaamse Gemeenschapscommissie" announced that it had been constituted in its meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u75	By letter dated 12 June 2014, the "Assemblée de la commission communautaire française" informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at the meeting of that day. By message of 12 June 2014, the Assembly of the French Community Commission announced that it had formed itself at its meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u76	By letter dated 13 June 2014, the Walloon Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 13 June 2014, the Walloon Parliament announced that it had constituted itself at today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u77	By letter of 17 June 2014, the Parliament of the French Community informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at the meeting of that day. By message of 17 June 2014, the Parliament of the French Community announced that it had constituted itself at its sitting today. It becomes clear again what parliamentary wealth we know in our federal country, my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-30-54-plenair-ip002x.u78	I've come to the end of the notifications. We must now simply commit ourselves to a next plenary session. I propose that we do so in consultation with the group leaders on a day to be determined. I therefore propose that the next meeting of the Chamber of Parliament should take place after convocation. The next sitting of Parliament will be convened. A conference of the Presidents will also be convened in advance. I thank you and wish you a good night. The sitting is closed. The Chamber shall be divided until further notice. The meeting is adjourned. The Chamber adjourned until further convocation.
