ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u2	The general discussion has resumed. The general discussion was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u3	The speaking time is ten minutes per speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u4	Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, if you will, I will look at the revenue side of the budget. I have brought with me some essential documents: the general statement, of course, the tax slips which some colleagues have gone to the Court of Auditors, the report of the National Bank and the report of the Court of Auditors. It's from these elements that I'll give you my little talk. Our work in committee was very interesting, but also somewhat surreal, because the information contained in the tax sheets and the Court of Auditors' report clearly did not serve much in that, in many respects, you decided not to take it into account. I therefore propose that you take up the microscope and look at some of these measures to see if your recipes are on the way. In our committee work, my conclusion was that they were not on the road, that some of them were overvalued and that, therefore, your budget was inconclusive. Unfortunately, this reality did not dissipate as I continued to deepen the subject. It is these thoughts that I wish to convey to you. First of all, on the liquidation bonus, I will go back to the measures in the examination of the programme law. I would like to reassure you; here I will only talk about the figures, the recipes. You therefore enter a recipe of 50 million euros. This liquidation reserve allows you to reduce the mandatory levy rate on certain dividends, provided they pass through this liquidation reserve and they are housed there for a certain time. It is therefore not difficult to understand that from the moment the profits are put in reserve, that they are charged 10% and that they are not distributed - while they would have been charged 25% - you cannot have a positive recipe in a case like this. What you earn in pre-payment of furniture, in special contributions on the liquidation reserve, you lose in pre-payment of furniture. The tax authority asks you to take this into account. The Court of Auditors asks you to take this into account and you decide to keep your figure of EUR 50 million, which does not correspond to anything. Your services hold a cost of 47 million euros. Where you're planning a 50 million recipe, you're told it's going to cost 47 million euros. This actually makes a gap of EUR 97 million. So you're missing 97 million euros. My second point concerns the secret commissions on which I will come back extensively during the examination of the program law. Here, I want to point out your revenue estimate. You're saying it's going to bring in 30 million euros. Again, the tax administration and the Court of Auditors tell you that this is not going to raise 30 million but that it is going to cost you 113 million euros. Here too, it is common sense! From the moment you reduce a contribution to 309% and reduce it to 100% or, in some cases, 50%, how do you want it to bring you money? You have mentioned here and there the curve of Laffer which has been put to all sauces. Laffer's curve is the principle that when you lower the tax, in reality, you increase the revenue because you raise the base by reducing the taxes. John Galbraith recalled, in The Republic of Satisfied, that this curve of Laffer had been made on a corner of the table at the end of a well-watered evening between economists on the east coast of the United States. Genuine history! Minister, I hope that you did not make your budget at the end of a watered evening. I don't believe it. It's common sense. Here too, 113 million euros fall. What am I saying, 113 million? You're planning $30 million and we see it's going to cost 143. I'm adding that $143 million to the $97 million I was talking about earlier. So we're 200 million euros missing in your budget from the revenue side. As far as intercommunals are concerned, your methodological problem is that you are going to look for figures based on the year 2011. That's what the tax administration says. However, we know that there are figures for 2012. You will therefore allow me to consider that your revenue of EUR 200 million is subject to bail. That's the third point. The fourth point is very important: the impact of index jumps on personal income tax revenues. When you make an index jump, the wage bill decreases. If the wage bill declines, the taxable income decreases. If taxable income declines, the tax on natural persons decreases. It's easy to understand. The tax administration and the Court of Auditors offer an analysis. The Court of Auditors is careful to make pro rata temporis as soon as you say that the index jump will not start on 1 January but later in the year. You do not take into account the assessment of the tax administration, which is the one that collects the professional discount, which manages this cash flow. No, you're recalculating it with the 2011 average gross taxable income – it's 2015! – on which you charge an average marginal rate, which you multiply, to obtain your budget impact amount, by the number of taxpayers concerned. That's not right! As I told you in the Finance Committee, I say again here: it is a DIY for me and it again makes us a loss of 300 million. When I add it all up, we're 500 million. I think you're missing EUR 500 million in your budget from the revenue side. You're not reasonable. In private accounting, it seems to your budget that it does not show a faithful image, that your accounts are not sincere. There's really a problem, but I think it's still time to get you back to that level. Of course, big tile for you: the bank tax that was to bring you 100 million disappears. So we'll be waiting for him next year. But will she come? Secondly, with regard to the so-called transparency tax - the Cayman tax - you are told by experts that, unfortunately, it is still not programmed. These experts already say that it will be inoperative! On the revenue side, in any case, you still have the tax on stock exchange transactions on what is your capital tax standard. In concrete terms, this means that you are missing half a billion euros in revenue. This is considerable in relation to the objective you had set yourself. Another problem is non-structural revenue. While you keep saying that you are very attentive to what Europe is asking you to do, you have been shown that both the pension savings measure and the liquidation reserve measure, as well as the secret commissions measure, are not structural revenues. Therefore, expect to have difficulties in the near future with the European Commission! I must stress once again that of the 3.4 billion efforts, unfortunately, you are only going to look for EUR 80 million on the taxation of capital and again, of the 80 million, half was never just the already existing base. Therefore, your effort is of the order – I am rounding up – of EUR 40 million. This is a real problem. The numbers are cruel and I believe objectively that you are going to have a very painful adjustment conclave. You will have the opportunity - seize it! - to pursue a genuine fiscal policy in the service of a more efficient economic policy. Don't bother the workers! Go look at the income of speculation, from which you will be able to finance increases in disposable income for our households, of which you know they are essential for the revival of the economy. Mr. Minister of Finance, I do not agree with you when you say that our exports account for 80% of GDP. Examine the value added of net exports, which reduces the figure to 30%. We have an internal economy that needs to be supported by an increase in household disposable income. It's not with the index jump that you can do it. Take advantage of the conclave to make a real tax shift, for economic efficiency and tax justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u5	Mr President, Mr Laaouej, you can see that we are not such a diabolical people. On noverest pas de tels diables non plus. Mr Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, on finance and fraud, I shall confine myself to a number of specific points. When we were faced with the investigation into the efficiency of finance in the past, the complexity of our tax legislation was obvious. The number of rules and documents on, for example, VAT taxation amounts to more than 30 000, all kinds of documents from which our administration can draw to do its job. The smallest child understands that such an approach does not work. I am therefore very pleased that I read an important simplification of taxation in the coalition agreement. I would like to mention four points which constitute the essence of the lines of the coalition agreement. Firstly, there is, of course, that shift. Contrary to what the opposition says, I hear total consensus on the majority side. It is also clear what the government agreement says: "The government will control expenditure and implement a parafiscal and fiscal shift in order to finance a sufficiently large reduction in charges'. So let us simply implement that agreement. A thorough analysis of the possibilities and international benchmarking seem appropriate. Perhaps advice should also be sought from all international mothers-in-law, who always want to give some good advice. Mr President, I would like to make a small comment. After five years of six-packing, I would finally like to know what the impact assessment is today. In the last five years, quite a number of measures have rightly been introduced, under different circumstances. It would be wise to have evidence of the real results of the implementation of these measures. This afternoon I noticed above all that the debate was about faith, rather than that it was a rational debate. I believe that supporting the results of the measures taken will help us to get out of this kind of trial and error debate in the future. Simplists claim that it is very easy to draw money from capital gains. I do not think it would be unwise to make the exercise and find out what its other effects are. That exercise is best not to stay overnight, we should not let ourselves be hunted but destroy the exercise. As far as capital gains are concerned, where there is profit, there is also loss. How do we deal with it fairly? I hear a few people charging themselves richly, but of course there are also losses. I hear nothing in the whole story of a tax shift about an ecoshift and a consumption shift. Normally, the polluter pays. These two important types of shift will have to be included in the debate, but there is complete wind silence. As far as the shift in economic behaviour is concerned, it seems interesting to me to consider the possibilities of capital to make other decisions. I'm just thinking about the rental market. What happens to the rental market? Will we have to subsidise them because a number of investors can leave the market? Clear solutions must also be found for alternative investments such as art. Because what does one do with smart investors in other than financial values? One has to take care of everything. It is also important to take into account the debate over recent days on pension inequality. EUR 1 000 difference in pensions justifies a capital difference over a period of 20 years with the interest rates we have today. Why should we burden people who are in a particular situation more heavily than others? Also the moment of collection is of course an important fact, that I do not see any plan coming back. In short, it is high time for the simplistics to be identified and for us to start research on the ground, to propose choices, and to retain them or not. This file is far too important for us to be hunted down. Secondly, the coalition agreement is based on the right conditions and principles in terms of simplification. We need to simplify to stimulate economic activity, to act efficiently and to change behaviour and, above all, to be efficient, but we also need to be clear about this with due respect for taxpayers. There is indeed no support for an unnecessarily strict approach to people who are in good faith. An excellent consultation between the administration and the grade professions will ensure the continuation of that process. In fact, you are already making that clear by removing the monster fines of 309 % in a very sensible way. Thirdly...;heavy noise problems) If I start to sound like Mr Verherstraeten, then something is wrong. Sorry, collega. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u6	The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u7	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that Mr Van de Velde finish his speech. Before he takes the floor, I would like to remind the group leaders that everyone agrees with the following procedure tomorrow afternoon: pour les questions orales, il est convenu de se limiter à une question par groupe politicique.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u8	Mr President, I will speak with caution. I had interrupted my speech by saying that 309 % of monster fines have been removed in a sensible manner. Thirdly, I deal with the organization of finance. We were able to discuss it briefly yesterday in committee, Mr Van Overtveldt. I would like to take this opportunity to underline a few points. Modern patrimony management is absolutely necessary for a government. This is lacking at a number of levels. There is a unique opportunity to focus and professionalise that policy in the FPM. The multitude of organisations in your administration may also be examined. This is a second opportunity that you can take advantage of today to work cost-effectively, without affecting any kind of service. We have just talked about respect for the taxpayer. I'm gonna have to recommend to both of you that you go to the Treasury for a long time on the floor. The taxpayer who makes a mistake is not at all the target of the administration. The problem with the administration, and her frustration, is that she hasn't been given a forum for a few years to raise her problems. There was no politician in Parliament to remove the thresholds that the administration is experiencing in order to ensure the smooth recovery of legally sent attacks, for example. This brings me, after all, to your task, Mrs Sleurs. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on the start of your office. Indeed, you have succeeded in correcting the policy area of fraud, which in the past has been used a priori stigmatizingly. Every self-employed person felt endorsed just because he was self-employed. With the business approach, you objectify the debate and bring it back to its essence: responding to the taxpayer and, where it is crossed, correct corrective action. It has also not been a mistake to carefully estimate your expected returns. Even the opposition takes over your figures in their own plans, so that's mustache. The efforts of your policy will translate into figures. It is primarily a question of quality. Besides, there is more than enough low-hanging fruit to strengthen your figures in the very short term. In addition, I would like to stress that my group is extremely pleased with the fact that, in your policy paper, you are specifically expressing your opinion on the distinction between the taxpayer who makes a mistake once, even outside his knowledge, and the manifest frauder. This attitude embodies the relevance with which you operate, and will also lead to greater trust between the tax inspection and the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u9	Mr President, I would like to make a few very brief comments which I have just wanted to make in the general discussion. It is clear that this House has shown that there is a fundamentally different view of how economic and social policy should be conducted. CD&V has ruled with the socialists for many years, except for the eight years between 1999 and 2007. I still support the policy pursued at that time. Now we're facing the last big horde. We have to go from 3 % to 0 % and we have to eliminate the 5% competitiveness handicap. Moreover, we must ensure that the costs of ageing will remain affordable in the future. The model that I have heard from Mrs Onkelinx, Mr Laaouej and Ecolo-Groen defend is one where they still think that the economy can be increased by boosting purchasing power and private consumption, and that public consumption should increase as a driving force for growth. For them, the growth engine lies in the increase in private and public consumption. That model is not compatible with the European framework. I hope you will accept the European framework in which surgery is to be carried out. Thirty years ago, I was in this room. It was the time of Martens, Gol, Verhofstadt, Dehaene and so on. A budget deficit of 13% of GDP had to be reduced. There was then, in the 1980s, opposition from Louis Tobback, because the then government also had to take a number of measures such as three index jumps and government savings. As a result, the competitiveness in Belgium was able to attract again and in the second half of the 1980s they were able to celebrate the return. That was Spitaels' big slogan. But le retour du coeur again raised our budget deficit from 6% to 9%. In 1991, when the Dehaene government was formed, there was another huge problem of competitiveness. This was resolved in Dehaene's global plan with the health index. What we need to do now, we can't do with you. The PS and sp.a are unable to take measures to achieve the objectives that Europe is imposing on us through reorganisations. You do not really accept the framework in which work is to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u10	That's not a provocation. I'm just trying to make things clear to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u11	Mr. Van Rompuy is provoking. That's not right! What do you think we did under the former legislature? You think we had fun? Don't you think we've reduced the deficit? Don't you think we cut the debt? And you're teaching us the lesson! I thought that, as chairman of the Committee on Budgets, you were going to explain to us your conviction about the "too few" in the budget, as Mr Ahmed Laaouej said earlier. What about you? What about liquidation bonuses and pension savings that are only tax collection advances and no real savings or additional revenue? What do you say about this, you who are serious? "We have to be serious about this budget and move forward"! What is your answer to that, rather than to teach us the lesson as we come out of a time when we made billions of new revenue and savings? Be serious!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u12	Mr President, Mr Van Rompuy, my speech is in the same direction. I can't blame you, because you are still very much in the Flemish Parliament, you are sometimes mistaken about the forum. During the previous legislature, you did not sit in this Chamber, but your party was represented here. Together with your party, the necessary savings were made by the previous government. Perhaps you should ask your fellow Members what happened then and how we saved. I have just made it very clear in my speech that the debt among the socialists fell from 137 to 80% between 1994 and 2007. It is the Socialists' fault that she has fallen!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u13	Mr President, I didn't know I could generate such passion. Mrs Onkelinx, I started by saying that I fully supported the previous government and that I also defended the measures of that time. However, we are now facing a deficit of 3% of GDP. In 2018, we must achieve a balance. The competitive handicap of about 4 % must be eliminated. It can only be done by means of a number of structural savings that you are totally opposed to; otherwise I have not understood your discourse. The European Commission has indicated that we have implemented some 1.4 percentage points of GDP, or some EUR 5 billion, of reorganisation measures. You're against these cleanups. I haven't heard anything else. In your opinion, the departmental savings go too far and social security goes too far. You say that we have partly reduced these deficits in the previous legislature by means of tax increases. CD&V wishes to respect the European framework. The Court of Auditors also says that structural savings have been made in social security and that almost no one-off measures have been taken. The measures taken are in fact all justifiable. There were also problems with primary expenditure in the past. In fact, primary expenditure has fallen by 1% in real terms between 2012 and 2014, which graces the previous government. That's normal. Also in the Justice Department...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u14	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u15	No, Mrs. Onkelinx. Minister Geens notes that there are a bunch of unpaid invoices. I don't make a value judgment on that. However, it means that savings have also been made in the previous legislature which have led to difficult payments of certain items. If we are to continue with the reform policy and do not do so, I shall say something about the tax shift by means of additional new taxes, then we must do so by means of savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u16	Mr Calvo, you have the floor for a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u17	Mr Van Rompuy, you're making crazy jumps throughout the day. You have just said that you have read with great attention the exercise of our group. You note that we respect the route defined by Europe, year by year, and that we want to move towards balance. Now, on the other hand, you say that the opposition does not want savings and leaves the European framework. That's wrong. The discussion we have been having all day is not whether we should achieve a balance in 2018, but whether we should do so. We have proposed a different picture than you have. I keep insinuating that this is not just a story of income; we are also saving one billion on primary expenditure. We have a number of concrete pistes for that. We are also looking at health care. I honestly do not understand where you are getting that last statement, Mr Van Rompuy. You have followed the whole plenary, so you should know better.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u18	Mr President, I shall continue. I will not repeat the whole debate this afternoon, but I would like to make two points. Firstly, the debate on the index jump. I have here a calculation of the index jump from De Tijd last weekend.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u19	It's the Socialists' fault! (Hilariteit)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u20	This is proof of destructive opposition!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u21	The seats are breaking, the sound's falling out. [[Hilarity]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u22	Mr Van Rompuy, continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in De Tijd a calculation is being made, a bilan is being made of the impact of the index jump and of the cost of an average income. This shows that there is a higher wage in 2015, despite the index jump. That is the case; the figures show that. In the committee, Minister Van Overtveldt also gave different figures on the cost-benefit ratio per income. Mrs Onkelinx, you give the impression that next year, due to the index jump, there would be no net increase. Mrs Onkelinx, Mrs Temmerman and Mrs Lalieux, you are always talking about purchasing power. Allow me to ask you the following question: Suppose we are in 2018-2019, the index jump is over and there has been a correction through the flat-rate costs, with how much do you think will reduce the available net income of the average Belgian by 2019? This has been calculated by the National Bank and it calls the figure 0.4%. Let me counter the fall in oil prices reported today in the newspapers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u24	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u25	Mrs Lalieux, if we had a world economy that was going well, with a growth rate of 2% to 3%, we might have to take different measures than the one we are today. Whether we had a left-wing or right-wing government wouldn't make any difference. What we have to pay attention to, says the National Bank, is that we have a small open economy. Are we talking about 70 % or 40 %, I want to have that discussion later. The main figure in the table on the macroeconomic impact of the index jump is that net exports from Belgium will increase substantially due to the index jump in 2019. This explains why, despite the fall in private consumption by 0.4%, we will have a positive growth rate of 0.5 percent overall.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u26	Mr Van Rompuy, may I ask you to conclude your speech?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u27	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u28	Mrs. Onkelinx, you're in opposition now, but you're 20 years old...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u29	... never.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u30	Mr President, I will conclude my speech. Public opinion is currently faced with very difficult measures. Those measures need to be defined. The role of the opposition is to criticise it. However, in a parliamentary committee we must also have the intellectual honesty to do so. I come to my very last thoughts. Austerity, austerity, we support 100%. But this austerity also goes hand in hand with solidarity and justice. There will be further budgetary discussions in three months' time. This is normal, given economic development and the fact that Europe is also asking for a number of things. CD&V wants taxation to be organised in a more equitable way. In this context, we are looking at the whole issue of taxation, taking into account that solidarity is essential, but also austerity. The son of the famous professor Galbraith once said that austerity and solidarity should go together. In this way a social contract can be concluded and this social contract will be essential for our economic growth.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u31	Mr President, I have a very small question. What Mr. Van Rompuy is important. I do not agree at all with him on the substance. I do not agree at all with him on the effectiveness of the measures that this government is taking, but he says that he wants more justice, including more tax justice. He therefore wants a solution to be found within three months to ensure that higher incomes (capital and wealth income) are involved. The question I'm asking you is the following. In your opinion, is it in a neutral operation or in the context of budgetary adjustment? The Court of Auditors and the European Commission have indeed made it clear that there will be problems to follow your own path and that a second layer will have to be put back in February-March. In your opinion, should this reform, which you call for, be fiscally neutral or can it help to balance the budget? Because if you don't go in that direction, it means that people will again be victims of a choice of economy that focuses on workers and social recipients or on federal public services, which will really strangle them. What is your answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u32	Mr President, Mrs Onkelinx, I repeat what I said earlier. It is clear that in the coming months there will be a further debate within the government on budgetary problems. That's obvious. This will not only be the case in March. After all, we still have five years to go. It is wrong to think that we can go from a deficit of 3 % to 0 %, without ever having another budgetary discussion about savings or taxes. You've been a member of the government long enough. I would just like to point out that in the coming months we will have to fill in the banking tax and the caiman tax. The index jump will also be covered in the coming months by a law in Parliament. Now, together with my group, I believe that measures should be taken in the debate on taxation in order to make taxation fairer. We are thinking of a capital gain tax. The question is how it will be completed technically and financially. After all, the way in which is a legal issue. For us, the budgetary aspect is one thing. However, the justice aspect is also very important. Both aspects must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u33	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u34	Mrs Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u35	Mr Van Rompuy, I am very pleased to say that you will not be surprised to hear that we are in complete agreement with the need for fair taxation. Why, however, did you not at first, when this government was set up, plead for fair taxation? From what we have heard and from what we have read in the newspapers, you have argued for fair taxation, but you have not made it. This is supported by Mr Van Biesen. [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u36	Colleagues, this is nothing like it. Maybe we should have the sheer courtesy to listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u37	Mr Van Rompuy, I repeat what I said. I am, of course, in favour of fair taxation. I am very pleased that you are advocating this, but you are speaking in the future. Why didn't you argue that at the beginning of this government? You argued that, as we could read in the newspapers, but you did not make it and you entered this government. Now you try again, again and again, you and several members of your group. This afternoon, other members of the government made it clear that it is no pasarán, something that we as socialists understand better, but I assume you understand that as well. Now you say that we will move towards fair taxation in the future. Do you really think that people will still believe that they will go to fair taxation?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u38	Mrs. Temmerman, this government is 65 days old.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u39	67!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u40	For once, Mr Calvo's figure is correct. [[Hilarity]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u41	This government has another 4.5 years ahead of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u42	The index jump must be made as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u43	Be careful in the opposition, because you won't last 4.5 years. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u44	Over the next few months, I'll give you rendezvous. Sometimes there are things that people think will never reach them. I am the example; look at the split of Brussels/Halle-Vilvoorde. We would never make it, jamais, but it did. Well, this is today's BHV file.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u45	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u46	In politics, and certainly in economic and fiscal terms, there is a completely new situation every six months. Economic, social and social changes change the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u47	Mr President, are you sure this is not being recorded?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u48	Everything's being recorded.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u49	A remarkable passage in your last speech, Mr Van Rompuy, was when you mentioned the timing of the tax shift. In the meantime, we are learning and it will not be until tomorrow. The chance that you will approve the opposition amendment tomorrow is rather small. You did suggest an important timing, because you said that the index jump will come to Parliament and that you expect a solution to the tax shift at the same time, that is what you suggested. Is that the timing to which you are committed, Mr Van Rompuy? We have just heard Mr Vuye say that capital tax would not be dealt with between now and March in the context of budgetary control. I would therefore like to ask Mr Van Rompuy specifically about this timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u50	The answer is that we will see.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Reynders, in particular, is not present at the moment, and Secretary of State, Mr Sleurs, I would like to talk briefly about the Belgian orphans. Those orphans have parents who actually abandon them. The mother you know that we always know is Secretary of State Sleurs and the false or false father is Minister Reynders. They sit in this government in a special and never-exposed lat relationship and they bite each other occasionally ugly words about the upbringing of their children. They are probably gribble against each other because they are both in a forced saving pack, whether or not with drugs. One parent wants to keep the cultural lovers a little less on the allowance money, the other wants to be stricter and maintain the reduced alimony. Are the orphans alone? [[Consultation]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not very nice. You must at least have the courage to listen to each other, otherwise you must go outside.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u53	Are the orphans alone? No, their cultural guardians and distant scientific uncles and aunts from the Communities and the Regions occasionally stop them with some money. They do not want to have too much to do with it, however, because they have enough children with whom they already give up enough and they also need to save. Is my speech going to be a sad Christmas story? No, fellow Members. The Belgian orphans have worked very well over the past few decades. It's the federal cultural and scientific institutions you've already guessed. Some of them, such as the good lobes of Bozar, the creative vibrant Mint, the fascinating Royal Museums of Art and History and the challenging Royal Museum of Fine Arts, are all blooming from ugly ducks to beautiful swans playing along on a global scale. Some of those ducks have some growing pains, but that's not their fault. They get hits from their parents and their guardians. They're being abused in the media, and they have to go fuck themselves. (Someone sneezes loudly)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u54	Mr President, we cannot go on like this, I am sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, a little handling of the speaker would not be a bad thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u56	They have to go to hell and their possessions are used in complex marital and family quarrels. Can I therefore call on the Secretary of State and the Minister to take the lead in an adult confederal negotiation tactic? Why not organise a round table with the various authorities involved to give serious thought to the federal institutions and, above all, to cooperate seriously? Can you also, please, involve the dynamic cities and the voluntarist directors of the institutions? You won't get there otherwise. Without openness, everyone with the loot, art collections for example, will remain in the wet trenches. Yes, Mrs Sleurs admitted in the committee that the Royal Museum of Fine Arts has a beautiful collection that is mainly to rot in the, if I understand correctly, wet basement. The Brussels government wants to put these treasures in a car showroom, but Secretary of State Sleurs thinks they can become visible in the existing buildings. She forgets that a Magrittemuseum and an Art Decomuseum have now moved into these buildings. The Secretary of State does not have the means to remodel the museum on the Brussels Kunstberg, but of the beautiful sculptures, paintings and drawings others have to stay away from. The scientific museum orphan stands there and looks at it. A few dozen meters away in Brussels, Bozar is still the Palace of Fine Arts a few years ago. The complex of architect Horta, like the other federal cultural institutions of father Reynders, has obtained a cultural exception. There must be less savings there. Hooray, they would say, but I don't know yet. Bozar is programming one beautiful exhibition after another, Borremans, Rubens, Europalia, and there are concerts that envy the whole world. With international institutions in Brussels, such as the European Commission, the European Parliament, NATO and the many embassies, the world can really come here to gaze at all that beauty. But cooking costs money. Not less, but more. During the discussion of the policy statement by Mr Van der Maelen, we argued in favour of increasing the resources for this type of cultural institution, because everyone who is seriously concerned with culture knows by now that pumping resources into large cultural institutions not only leads to increased prestige but that, as liberal ministers should know, there is also a correspondingly higher economic return. We also know that if we want to make institutions more efficient, we must always invest first, for example in digitalisation. My mother used to say, "Celebration deceives wisdom." We can, of course, have the vain hope that private partners, Europe or the National Lottery, will come to terms with this. I have no problem with that, but that would be a cultural exception. Mr Reynders and Mrs Sleurs, it is easy to sell management talk about modern autonomy and to tell the cultural and scientific creatures to pull their weight. Then wrong decisions are made. For example, De Munt announced today that there will be fewer than 16 staff members and that the dance programme will be cancelled; and that in the country of Béjart. There won't be a baroque opera either. Will that stop the world from turning? Of course not. It is therefore necessary for Brussels to undergo a cultural drain and to make the world a little less beautiful, so be it. Mrs. Sleurs, you are continuing linear savings at the federal scientific institutions. You are even stricter than Minister Reynders: no scientific exception. I believe that we should invest in public activity, in ICT, in digitalisation, in contemporary performance, in scientific studies and in accessibility. Above all, we must remove the beautiful art collections from the damp spaces. You have said that you will take the collaboration files from the Justice Palace and bring them to the National Archives for secure access and for study. You have so much ambition that you really hope to achieve the international ICOM standards on museums. But, Mrs. Sleurs, where are the resources? How will you get those resources? Will you fight for resources? Are we here as socialists arguing for elitist cultural institutions, as some fellow MPs have been barking at us? That could perhaps have been a battle point fifty years ago, but the democratisation and rejuvenation of art and culture has helped to free itself from old forms and thoughts thanks to the efforts of the socialists and the liberals. Art, culture, music and science offer mental and creative islands in bleak times. There are many young people who visit the Bozar or the Mint. Some put their first steps in the cultural world through the many Brussels federal museums.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u57	Your last minute goes in.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u58	Ticket prices have been adjusted and I hope our federal institutions have the potential to continue to grow. I want to be very clear. We are opposed to the savings, and that is why we will not approve the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u59	Mr. Chairman, I apologize for coming back to the Budget and the Finances after Mrs. De Coninck's brilliant presentation on federal cultural institutions. I listened very carefully to Mr. Van Rompuy and I cannot help being systematically afraid of his traditional recipes. Times have changed. The financialization of the economy, since the time you applied horse remedies to Belgium, is very real. I don't want to see our country die cured. There is a glimmer of hope, but you do a little like the maid of the parish priest who sang "I wish, but I can't". It is indeed this tax shift that has been at the centre of the discussions since this morning. Are we going to make it or not? It would be a little more of a recipe for the future. The fact that it is central to our discussions and to the alternative budget proposal we are making is symptomatic. Our tax system today is unfair. The distribution of effort is not fair. The most fragile shoulders must shoulder too much effort, and those with more resources must be spared. It is inefficient, including economically. Similarly, SMEs bear a very high tax burden, while larger companies can almost escape tax through legal mechanisms or at the limit of legality. Nor is it efficient in terms of societal and environmental objectives. As we have said quite clearly, so I will not expand on this, we regret the government's reluctance to implement this shift, a tax, societal and environmental shift. I heard colleagues on the CD&V say that this was the first time that it was written in a government agreement. But it is not enough for it to be written in a government agreement; we must take action. Compared to other measures, such as those contained in the programme law, which would be studied on Friday, decisions that would hurt were not expected to be taken. So, Minister of Finance, at work! Surprise us, show us that you are capable of achieving what is now only an idea in the air and for which the least we can say is that there is no cohesion within the government. For my second element, I would particularly like to address the Secretary of State, who is responsible for many exciting skills, such as cultural institutions, people with disabilities, the fight against poverty, and the fight against tax fraud. However, the first of the tax reforms to be carried out is the fight against fraud. Mr Vuye, you have reassured us completely through the congresses of the N-VA: the fight against fraud is resumed by insisting on zero tolerance towards it. That is what you repeated earlier in the plenary session. Of course, your party's texts probably represent something respectable, but what interests me more is that the idea is also included in the Secretary of State's note, but that it appears mainly in his actions and in those of the Minister of Finance. Let us not make the mistake, already made by others, of limiting the fight against tax fraud to a state subsecretariat without means. With all due respect for the Secretary of State. EUR 20 billion is the annual amount due and not paid by certain fraudsters, to the detriment of the vast majority of our fellow citizens, honest taxpayers, who pay their contributions properly and thus assume the financing of the State's missions. During the debate on our alternative budget, I was very surprised to see that the CD&V colleagues consider, in their calculations of new taxes due through this alternative budget, the result of the fight against tax evasion as a new tax. In my view, this is the fundamental problem in the way we think about the fight against tax fraud. This fight is not new taxes, but a way of applying a form of tax justice. This hypocrisy must therefore be removed. An exciting committee of inquiry was organized, which was a very fine parliamentary work in 2007, and gave rise to a series of recommendations that received the consent of all parliamentarians at the time. Since then, we have been moving backwards in relation to this objective. Those who rub their hands are those who avoid tax. Rather, it would be a matter of closing doors, improving strategies, unlocking means to combat fraud. Mr Minister, I come back to the debate that we have and that we will still have on the LuxLeaks, the BelgoLeaks. I cannot accept your argument last Thursday that the excess profit ruling, the result of a law passed here by a socialist-liberal majority, as well as notional interests, allows companies not to pay tax in any opacity. That's shocking. In this context, we cannot talk about niche politics. You accept a tax inequality that leads to an inequitable, inefficient, inefficient tax system. You are calling for transparency from the Luxembourg State in relation to the rules concluded concerning Belgian companies. You must apply the same transparency to Belgium. At European level, it is time to actively contribute – not just to be followers – to fundamental reforms to create transparency in tax matters, with a full exchange of information, including the publication of the rules. This will be the best way to ensure that our companies pay tax properly. Thirdly, Minister, this objective of combating fraud cannot be achieved without human resources, without anyone working in your administration. While you are proposing linear savings measures, in our alternative budget we are also proposing savings measures; but we believe that there are specific, central functions that need to be protected, including those related to the fight against tax evasion and the proper collection of taxes. It is striking to note the difference in vocabulary between the objectives of combating social fraud and the fight against tax fraud. But in the fight against tax fraud, each official pays much more money than it costs for public finances. The savings you are proposing in this area, which are only the continuation of the economies decided before you, are false economies that make the action of the State less effective. We were shocked by your government's lack of budgetary ambition for the results of the fight against tax fraud. The budget is a political act that reflects an ambition, and in this case, a lack of ambition on the part of your government. We need means, objectives and people to implement this central anti-fraud objective. Fourthly, with regard to the taxation of natural persons, everyone agreed during the election campaign, and before that in the special committee on tax reform, which met many times in this Chamber, on the importance of improving tax escalation. This is an argument that I have already heard very often: too much tax is being paid too quickly; and, on the contrary, those who earn a lot benefit from tax conditions at too advantageous a limit. At the time of the election campaign, at least in the programs of all French-speaking parties, there was talk of increasing the tax-exempt quota. This is not the choice you have made; you have decided to increase the deductible lump-sum professional fees. From the documents we have received in the Committee on Finance, it is clear, Mr Finance and Budget Ministers, that 50% of the package of these 450 and 900 million euros will benefit the 30% of our richest citizens. It's an anti-redistributive choice. Meanwhile, our pensioners will undergo an index jump, the total cost of which is 700 million euros in terms of social benefits. Unindexed automatic deductibility will cost 130 million by 2018. In addition, they will not benefit from this tax reduction. Your government is therefore unfair, but it is also economically inefficient. What needs to be strengthened to support domestic consumption, and therefore the domestic economy, are the means of workers with the lowest incomes and those of the social beneficiaries. Why? Because the money they have is reinjected automatically and almost entirely into the economy. The result is support for employment. The return effect is much more obvious than the measures you have taken that favour those who do not need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as time passes, the temperature rises in this room. It was a little cold when you arrived, but now you feel the effect of each other's rages. For my part, I would like to be as measured as possible and first mention the budgetary choices that Mr.Jamar must take on behalf of the government. The stability programme as approved for the period 2014-2017 provided for a return to balance in 2016 and a re-established medium-term objective by 2018. The government has made the decision – it is its right and role – to set itself a different fiscal trajectory as the goal of a return to balance is announced for 2018. Nothing is said about the medium-term objective, but we don't know what will happen in 2019. In any case, the objective is very clear and has been announced by the Budget Minister, confirmed by the Prime Minister. A second objective on which much emphasis has been placed today, notably through the voice of the Prime Minister, is the reduction of the Belgian State's debt. We're talking about a current debt ratio of 107 per cent. If I understand the trajectory you have presented, you want to take this debt down below the 100% mark by 2017. These are ambitious, clear goals. Mr. Minister of Budget, that's what you'll be assessed on. We will have appointments in March 2015. But in 2017 and 2018, we will have the opportunity, together, to check whether these two objectives – the restoration of balance in 2018 and the reduction of debt as of 2017 – will be achieved, in which case, Minister of Budget, I will be the first to congratulate you and to take my hat off you. With regard to these objectives, I would like to say that we could join. Contrary to the caricatural presentation made earlier that there would be a responsible government with, in front of it, a lax opposition, itself irresponsible considering that deficits can run without gravity, I have for my part the feeling that we agree on the objectives. I also note that, on the side of our Ecolo friends, there is a form of adherence to the principle of returning to budgetary balance. This has not always been the case. There's an evolution on this side. This may be due to the effect of rapprochement with Groen. Not so long ago, on the side of Ecolo, it was considered that the financial balance was a dogma that had to be overcome. I am thinking of debates with our friend Georges, who feels he is being targeted. I didn't want to make it a personal attack, dear Georges.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u61	Mr President, I very much appreciate my new colleague, Mr Dispa, but he cannot tell false things. We do not make fiscal balance a blind dogma, like social-Christians. I heard Mr. Van Rompuy. We do not intend to bequeath an unbearable debt to our children. Previously, Mr. Van Rompuy has made a little history to remind us of the amounts of debt and the efforts that have been made at a certain time. It is in the interest of having more experienced colleagues. I remind you of the parties, the parties of the waufrier era, the parties of the time of useless work that have dug a hole that we still have to assume today, which we regret completely. I do not think I have a lesson to learn, especially by saying things wrong, from Mr.Dispa as a representative of one of them. It's always in a bad mood.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u62	My point was simply to underline the fact that, on the opposition side too, there is support for the principle of the need for budgetary balance in the medium term. On the side of the CDH, in any case, there is no misunderstanding. I do not want to imply that we are lax or irresponsible. It is not for nothing that, in the election campaign, the CDH presented a fiscal reform that was intended to be fiscally neutral, with a recycling of notional interests, with options in the fight against speculative attitudes or the fight against tax fraud. In the election campaign, on the francophone side alone, the MR argued for a tax reform that was not financially neutral, budgetaryly, believing that there would be returns, that it was necessary to be proactive and that, if it was to affect taxation, it was obviously in order to alleviate the tax burden on the population. For our part, we didn't have a speech like that. We now realize that the speech is not on the road because it cannot be implemented. There is no tax reform that can be as costly as the one announced by the MR. In the same way, a few other denials were pointed out. In the debate on the Finance chapter, the silence of the MR is still deafening. I remember quite recent debates where the MR, through the voice of David Clarinval, undertook not to practice index jumps, not to postpone retirement age. Clearly, there was a point where we were in favour of rigour, but not austerity.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u63	In those same discussions, Mr. Dispa undertook not to touch service titles. Unfortunately, this was done in the Walloon Region. Also, I think that in terms of commitment, I have no lesson to learn from cdH!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u64	However, I note that, on federal issues, there is no answer to these changes on very important issues at the very least. Although there is a need for some nuance when it is stressed that the federal government's level of debt needs to be reduced. It is important to remember that in 2007 the debt ratio was 87 per cent of GDP and that, since then, if there has been a return to the top, it is attributable to the banking crisis, but at the time it was necessary to intervene. And the current situation, which ultimately cost more than 17% of GDP, was nobody's responsibility. If, on the objectives, one can tend towards the perspectives that you trace, on the method, I have states of soul and a different opinion. The Prime Minister pointed out just now that the method was based on expenditure-based remediation. Indeed, at least two-thirds of the balancing measures are expenditures. In this respect, one can be relatively conciliatory except that this reveals a clear difficulty in dealing with the revenue problem. I am personally struck, since these debates started in committee and now in plenary, how difficult it is for the majority to find its point of convergence on revenue collection. A number of discrepancies were noted in committee between the figures of the government and those of the Department of Finance. I am not going to reopen the debate, but on the amounts included in the budget, the approaches are, to say the least, divergent. There are measures in the revenue section as a whole which can be regarded as purely cosmetic. The harmonization of VAT on cosmetic surgery, for example, is one of the easy measures that could be described as film films, according to a formula sometimes used in a majority party. The contribution of the financial sector is postponed to a later date, indicating that, obviously, in relation to this problem, there is a real difficulty. As far as the fight against tax fraud is concerned, no one is fooled: the amount of 75 million that is included in the 2015 budget in terms of revenue is an amount that comes from a purely ideological approach. A form of arithmetical equality was sought in the fight against tax fraud in relation to the fight against social fraud. Behind this amount, there is absolutely no measure that could have been explained and that could have convinced the commission. Still on the revenue side, there are a number of anticipations of future revenue, I am thinking of liquidation bonuses or advance withdrawals from pension savings. There's a lot of delay. Today's session may have given rise to prospects for change, but there is still a great deal of difficulty in agreeing on the tax shift. Rendez-vous is given in a few weeks or months. In any case, at the moment, it is little to say that there is no consensus in the majority. Still in terms of revenue, you did not want to touch on notional interests. No doubt because their regional distribution is disadvantageous for only one of the Regions, in this case the Walloon Region. With regard to taxation for intercommunals, there is once again a purely ideological approach with an amount of 200 million recorded. This does not give the impression of a real measure of the problem. I think that, from a legal point of view, you are facing some difficulties. Choosing your method is a problem in terms of recipes. And at the expenditure level, as much as an effort to save money is needed, as much as it is necessary to control or even reduce spending, it is absurd to proceed linearly as you have done by imposing massive reductions in personnel, operations and investment. There are other ways to reduce spending. We could have imagined, since you had had the happiness of putting the socialists out of the government, that you were operating on the so-called method of base budget 0. We sweep the past, we leave a blank page, we imagine what the priorities are and we put the means into it. That's not the method you chose. You could call on the Court of Auditors to carry out an analysis of the efficiency of expenditure in order to determine which have an added value or which have less. Instead, you chose to proceed with dark cuts.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u65	Mr. Dispa, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u66	Mr President, I haven't been very long. I'll try to finish. I come to my conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u67	You have to be strict. Ten minutes is ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u68	The method you have chosen to reduce expenses linearly, a bit like a roller compressor, reaches its limits right away. Whether in committee or in the report of the Court of Auditors (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u69	Mr Dispa, we have made an agreement and we will abide by it. Look at what's ahead of us. We keep to a ten-minute speaking time. You stop now, Mr. Dispa.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u70	This method – as I said in committee and I repeat here – has an anxiety effect. It is not the minority that creates anxiety in the population, it is the linear nature of these economic measures. When spending cuts are added to the reduction in purchasing power and social security savings measures, there is concern. And what's interesting this evening – I end with that, Mr. Chairman – is that the representatives of CD&V and N-VA are making a clear speech. You are clearly arguing for a policy of austerity. The Prime Minister does not subscribe to that term. He's trying to wrap things up.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u71	Mr President, I assure you, my speech will not be long. My speech actually concerns expenditure. My group's colleagues will come back to the expenditure budget in more detail and in more detail, department by department. For my part, I'm just going to do a topo about general expenses. As my colleague Ahmed Laaouej brilliantly demonstrated earlier, in terms of revenue, this budget is not set up as a good father of the family. I won't surprise anyone by saying that at the expense level, neither can we talk about good family management. This budget clearly lacks rigour and seriousness. As we have already said: it is simply impossible to operate, as you propose, linear decreases of 20% in 2015 in some departments. Of course, this 20% relates only to operating costs; I am not even talking about the decrease in investment or personnel appropriations, which are also down 4% in 2015. Of two things one when we see all these decreases for the main departments: either some public service missions can no longer be fulfilled, or the projections made today in the 2015 budget will not be respected. Either way, it's serious. We're not the only ones to say that. You have all read the Court of Auditors' report carefully. She also said that "this government has decided to suffocate certain departments." Of course, it highlights that of Justice. For my group, this budget at the expenditure level is not serious and does not stand the way. Reducing operating costs by 20% is really untenable. The efforts required in primary spending are brutal: more than one billion euros in 2015, becoming 2.3 billion euros in 2018, or almost 15% of the corresponding budget. It may be useful to remind some of what public services are for and how these missions are essential in a country. Moreover, the Regal missions are fundamental, let me point it out to you. In my view, through this budget, the government is dogmatistic in wanting to cut spending linearly without exempting certain departments. This is clearly an admission of weakness, a lack of strategic vision. This is really what is called austerity. The Court of Auditors itself asserts this, one of the weaknesses of this budget – as you have been shown – is the underestimation of expenditure. For us, some reductions in spending are untenable and do not hold the road. We will have the opportunity to demonstrate this to you through the analyses of the various departments. Two words about this famous interdepartmental provision. The symptomatic mark of this government is the permanent use of the latter. We do not, of course, criticise this action or the existence of this provision. It is necessary, but caution must be exercised. Here too, the Court of Auditors stigmatizes how this provision will be used, as it runs counter to budgetary principles. According to the Court, the use of this provision must be limited to uncertain or unknown expenditure. A large part of the expenses that will be borne by the provision and that you have exposed to us will be either ordinary expenses or already certain expenses. Moreover, and the Court also emphasises this, this limits Parliament's competence, because the allocation of provisional appropriations takes place without its agreement, since it is informed only late. The way you intend to use this provision is therefore contrary to the principles of specialty and transparency. What is even more disturbing and disturbing is that it seems to be the solution to everything! As we have seen in committee with Mr Jamar, a large number of concrete questions have received like joking this famous answer: "We will use the interdepartmental provision". Whenever there was doubt about appropriations, this provision was systematically referred to. Indeed, this reserve seems inexhaustible, which made me think of Mary Poppins' bag. Mr Jamar put it to all the sauces: personnel credits for justice, structural financing (including 100 million investments for the army) or cybersecurity. With regard to cybersecurity, we have had a debate each time. For Mr. Jamar, it was on the reserve, but the Prime Minister replied in committee that it would be discussed later in an adjustment. I'm not going to go over all the expenses. There is a table that has been done fairly well on page 150 of the report. It would take me a lot more than the ten minutes that are given to me. Frankly, we don't know where we're going with this provision. This is really a paradox because, on the one hand, the government wants to cut one fifth of departments' spending, regardless of their needs, linearly, without thinking. It is indeed absolutely necessary to reduce the state's life course, it is a dogma. At the same time, however, the government is bailing out the departments through this provision. It is also proof that savings in such a drastic manner do not take into account the real needs of the various departments. It's really amazing how to work and how to make a budget. I would remind you that this provision must be there in case of a hard blow, in case of unforeseen circumstances to finance a few small things. Not to pay the twelfth month's salary for magistrates or make essential investments for the army, not for structural spending. For a budget to be sound, expenditures must be clearly identified and funded. Here, we're in complete blur. In conclusion, when reading this budget, as far as expenditure is concerned, the fundamental question we are entitled to ask ourselves is how you are going to stand up! I warn you: by this act you are showing a serious lack of foresight! It is undoubted that the interdepartmental provision will be sufficient to cover all deficits. It is unheard of to take this provision to pay structural expenses while it should be used as before, as a relief buoy. It is unheard of that it is possible to reduce operating appropriations by 20% without hampering the proper functioning of public services. Unfortunately, the next budgetary adjustment is likely to be fuller and even more brutal for our citizens. On the basis of these elements, my group is not at all reassured about the future of our citizens. The budgetary management of this government raises questions and risks jeopardizing the essential tasks of our State. But maybe that's what we're looking for?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u72	Since my colleague Mr Van Rompuy has already said so many good things on behalf of our group on finance and budget, I will not burden you with that any more. I would just like to refer to a measure that has not yet been mentioned, in particular the tax relief for disturbed zones. We are asking for this measure, which you also support, Minister. The measure in question will be implemented in the coming weeks and months. This is happening at an important moment, especially with the final closure of Ford Genk and the restructuring of Philips in the Kempense region. We are counting on you for this measure, which consists of a reduction in the cost of wages in the affected zones. The other measures have already been mentioned enough, but I would like to mention them briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you go straight into the heart of the matter and into a subject that has not been discussed at all today: culture and scientific policy. The successive hearings of the Secretary of State in committee have demonstrated what we, unfortunately, already read between the lines of the government agreement and the general policy note: for the government, excellence does not belong to the federal government. Since the government agreement, the good intentions are all contradicted by the announcement of blind measures whose rationality is still difficult to understand. And it is not for lack of having wanted explanations in committee, explanations that we have never seen happen. In the end, there will rarely have been so many contradictions between the intentions and the concrete measures announced. Let me list the contradictions which, in my view, are the most glaring: 1. A posteriori consultation. This is a concept which the government has not failed to abuse in the social field and which is also used by Mrs Sleurs. The Secretary of State decides first and then plans to consult with the persons concerned. Indeed, what is concertation when unilaterally announcing a reorganization of the halls of the Royal Museum of Fine Arts without even warning its director? Where is the consultation when the general policy note of a Deputy Prime Minister announces a Museum of Modern Art at the Vanderborght building while that of the Secretary of State returns to this museum rue de la Régence? Madam Secretary of State, which director did you finally consult to establish your reforms? 2. A mistrust of the private sector. Through her statements, Mrs Sleurs hardly insinuated that the previous majorities had aroused the private sector's distrust of public science policy. It is quick to forget, for example, that, contrary to your intentions, international space policy has always been developed within a framework supported by all industry in the sector. It is also important to remember that two public museums of international importance have been born in Brussels in recent years, thanks to partnerships with the private sector. On the other hand, you have already managed to arouse such distrust with your staggering announcements about the Musée Fin de Siècle, Madam Secretary of State, that a private collector has threatened to withdraw major works loaned to the Musée Magritte. Madam Secretary of State, let me ask you a simple question: how many museums do you intend to open and how many museums do you intend to close? 3. Restructurings that will cost, weigh and weaken. On the basis of absolutely no note, no report, no analysis, you unilaterally decided that the Science Policy PPS was – I quote – "a useless administration". So you delete it. Whatever the ISO 9001 certifications! Regardless of the economies of scale achieved through BELSPO through support services to federal scientific institutions! Federal scientific institutions will now have to assume similar administrative tasks separately, which will keep them away from their scientific and museum activities. It is precisely a measure that will cost more and will be less effective. 4. A scientific independence placed under political supervision. Another great battlehorse of Mrs. Sleurs is the independence of federal scientific institutions. Again, we are still waiting for your demonstration of a current lack of independence. We do not understand what the scientific advice of the FSEs, made up of half foreign experts and academics, is for this government. On the other hand, from incomprehension, we turn to shock when we read that "you will fund projects from federal scientific institutions only if they are in accordance with the government agreement". I would like to know where the independence you want is through this declaration. Such a decomplexed posture seems to me to be a return of centuries and the fruit of an authoritarian conception. 5. Voluntaryly blurred and imprecise ambitions. The Secretary of State says she's full of ambition. She even wants to make things better. I see myself forced to use a word as vague as "things": indeed, after reading your notes carefully and hearing your presentations, it is impossible to specify what this covers and what are the objectives you really want to achieve: do you want more museums, more visitors, more exhibitions, more research in the national GDP? Go and find out! To advertise wanting to focus on basic research, but removing hundreds of research positions has not deceived anyone. And certainly not the thousands of scientists who have already signed the petition against your actions. Admit that these actions are contrary to your words: to remove jobs for a government that wants to create jobs is a toll! In fact, this lack of a concrete objective demonstrates that the government knows in advance that the measures and budgets announced will not allow any improvement. I come to the last contradiction, which is not the least: a community that does not say its name. Yet it was the great pride of the MR: "This government will not make a community." And yet! The Regions will now co-decide with Belgium's international space policy. Again, what does Article 6a of the Special Act of 8 August 1980 concern? What if the federal government is specifically designated as the only jurisdiction in this area? Even more subtle, some see your desire to isolate federal scientific institutions from each other as making lots that are even easier to sell or sell – meaning communityized. I will admit that I find it difficult to wrong them, as I see no other explanation for these measures. Finally, and more generally, whether in the polar station, in the administration, in research, in museums and institutes or in space, the announced weakening of all the scientific components at the federal level demonstrates only one thing: the N-VA obtained this ministry to better harm it. And we understand her. Excellence, when Belgian, is sometimes embarrassing. In conclusion, I would just like to say a word to my Liberal colleagues, who have made a major contribution to creating a model that they are about to destroy today. Culture and scientific research are essential departments to support economic growth and to contribute to wealth creation. The vivacity of culture and research not only contributes to the international reputation of a state but also strengthens the prospects for the emancipation of a society and cements the foundations of modern democracies. I really invite you, Madam Secretary of State, not to dismantle everything without taking the time for consultation and reflection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u74	Mr President, earlier, Mr Ducrame said that the government was not leading a class policy. Mr. Ducarme, why so much restraint? There is room for everyone, for all the political currents in this Parliament, including those who defend the great capital. I don't see where your embarrassment is, especially since the mayor of Belgium – I don't know if you see who I'm talking about – the one you never see in the Chamber except when he plays cards, he doesn't have the restraint you have, Mr.Ducarme. He clearly says the Voka is his boss. I see that the Prime Minister is accompanying him to the Voka. They're received together. Then why this restraint? There are some who defend capital, others who defend workers. We have to do our part! Long before this government, Belgium has been, for many years, a tax haven for the richest and a hell for the workers. What this government is going to do is deepen both sides of the equation. For workers, we are going to make a shift from direct taxation to indirect taxation. We are going to reduce tax escalation, but we are actually going to increase tax regressivity, which is obviously not particularly social, nor is it going to favour the least wealthy. We are going to tax the unemployed, pensioners, replacement income by the non-indexation of the tax reduction on replacement income. On the other hand, if we look at the ratio between tax revenues and GDP, we see that this ratio is increasing in 2015; it is 26.89 in 2014 and it is rising to 27.92 in 2015. I am surprised that the Liberals, who support all their demagogy on taxation, the tax reduction being their business, actually increase taxes. The taxes for whom? For the workers, since in our country they are essentially the ones who pay taxes. If the great capital paid for it, it would be clear! What measures is the government taking against big capital? There is nothing about Isoc, since it is stated that there is a need to ensure fiscal stability for businesses and investors. As for pensioners and workers, this is well known, they do not need stability! So, we don't touch corporate taxes. In terms of capital gains, we don't do anything either. As in the matter of wealth tax. I hear Mr. Van Rompuy talks about taxation of wealth income. In any case, a survey was recently released. I had the opportunity to speak to the Minister of Finance in a previous plenary. According to this survey, 85% of the population in Flanders is in favour of a tax on wealth – not a tax on wealth income. This is indeed a property tax: above EUR 1 million. Contrary to what the Prime Minister said earlier, this survey is very clear. People know exactly what they want and are 85% to think so: 73% for Open Vld voters, 77% for N-VA voters and, on CD&V, Van Rompuy, that's more than the average, since they are 89%. They know what they want: a tax on large assets above a million euros, not taking housing into account. Finally, in the fiscal trajectory for the legislature as a whole, the capital contribution was forecast to be 2%. For 2015, this 2% has disappeared. We're not even talking about a Cayman tax or the bank contribution anymore. The only remaining measure concerns notional interests, whose performance will be ten times lower – according to the Court of Auditors – than what had been budgeted. On the other hand, what does the great capital get from the government? Reductions in parafiscality, through reductions in so-called employer charges, and full of possibilities to further reduce taxes. We talk a lot about LuxLeaks, but we should also talk about BelLeaks – which concerns the ruling in Belgium. These are extraordinary gifts! Moreover, the government still wants to explore the possibilities in terms of regulation and limit the anti-abuse law. With regard to the fight against tax fraud, it is apparent that this government intends to encourage fraud rather than combat it. Thus, the only concrete measure put forward by Secretary of State Sleurs aims to increase the permissible limit for cash payments! We're going from 3,000 to 7,500 euros. Apparently, the Antwerp diamond lobby was effective and powerful enough to weigh Mrs. Sleurs. In committee, I pointed out 17 indications that this government would deepen tax evasion rather than combat it. Thank you, I have no time to elaborate on these 17 points here because the President is asking me to conclude. In committee, I told Mrs Sleurs that, since she has to fight tax fraud and poverty – these are two of her main tasks – and since the government is quite the opposite, it was finally a bit the antimatter and black hole of this government. I conclude by saying that this government is not only the government of great capital, Mr.Ducarme, but also the government of fraudsters!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government combines measures aimed at restoring, firstly, the competitiveness of our economy; secondly, the reduction of the budget deficit; thirdly, structural changes in the socio-economic system; and fourthly, the improvement of the situation of the least well-off. In each of these four areas there are financial and fiscal aspects, which I will come back to later, and so I will take up the questions and comments, but let me first say a few things about competitiveness and the budget deficit in the context of the debate that has taken place over the last few hours. With regard to competitiveness, I have a few points to make. I have heard in the debate talk about a wage handicap of 2.9 %. It was added that, if we include subsidies, the labour cost handicap is actually almost gone. Well, that is a very wrong argument for a number of reasons. Firstly, of course, subsidies are also provided in the countries around us. If this is to be taken into account, then it is also necessary to do so for the countries to which we compare, especially the three neighbouring countries. Secondly, there is, of course, no point in including subsidies focused on internal sectors, including service cheques, in the assessment of the impact of labour costs on international competitiveness. Finally, the CRB bases its calculations on what has happened since 1996, when the law on the maintenance of competitiveness was introduced. The CRB therefore implicitly assumes that there was no problem in 1996, while, of course, all OECD and Eurostat figures show that this is not correct. The handicap in 1996 was about 8%. So we are still talking in real terms about a labour cost handicap of at least 10% and therefore absolutely necessary correction. Purchasing power and internal consumption are, of course, important for the economy, and there is no doubt about that. However, especially in a very open economy such as the Belgian economy, there will be, to the extent that there is a lack of competitiveness, a relative increase in purchasing power abroad for the simple reason that the companies are not or are not sufficiently competitive. The trade deficit in recent years has been a clear illustration of this. Finally, with regard to competitiveness, I would like to say the following. This aspect did not come up at all during the day, although it is very important from an economic point of view. Today we have only talked about labour costs and their impact on competitiveness, exports and imports. However, there is another dimension in which labour costs also play an important role in social developments, especially in employment and hence in public finances. It is not true that companies, when they set up or develop a particular activity, must, by definition, choose a particular technology with that amount of capital and that amount of labour. There is almost always a choice menu, where a particular technology can be combined with capital and labor. To the extent that labour is expensive, relatively expensive, we get a production apparatus that is by definition less labour intensive and more capital intensive, with a similar output. This is often forgotten in the discussions on labour costs, but is very real and is also extremely important for employment. I come to the second element of the four elements, which I list as the elements I would like to discuss: the budget deficit. I have heard all kinds of stories today about Europe and where we stand with Europe. Allow me to speak clearly and clearly on this subject. Europe is increasingly looking at the structural budget deficit. The structural budget deficit has cleared the deficit for the fluctuations specific to the economy and cleared for one-off measures. In this respect, Europe asked us to make an effort of 0.6% of GDP in 2015. The government is making an effort of 0,7%, and in its first reflections Europe has said the following: we have received two figures, you can put the presentation given in the Finance Committee alongside the Commission's autumn forecast. Europe says that 0.4 to 0.5 % of our measures are structural efforts, while Europe demands 0.6%. In essence, therefore, we are getting relatively close together, as Mr Van Rompuy has just pointed out in the plenary. The debate by March 2015 will therefore focus on this: we will try to explain to Europe that, if we are not already on it, we are still very close to the need for 0.6% of structural interventions. The problem facing Europe is the problem of debt. We're from the excess-deficit procedure. For the Stability Pact, where I assume that everyone here will support that pact until further notice, a Member State must follow a certain pace of deleveraging. We will not succeed in this, despite the fact that the European Commission is clearly expressing its satisfaction with the road to 2018, which we have drawn up. Everyone who was present in the Finance Committee when the representatives of the European Commission made their presentation has clearly heard that the European Commission will interpret the debt rule flexibly. It will do so flexibly because, firstly, it is very aware of the fact that, in an environment of very low growth and very low inflation, the reduction of a debt cannot possibly be rapid and, secondly, it is also aware or at least wants to take into account the fact that, for the required deleveraging, the structural measures taken by the government are also explicitly taken into account, which do not produce results in the short term but are very necessary for our household in the long term. It will also include such measures in its assessment of whether or not the debt reduction is sufficient. Thus I conclude my preliminary remarks. The government will phase out the projected structural deficit by 2018. At the same time, however, it will also give a clear boost to purchasing power and competitiveness. In this context, the government is carrying out a tax shift of more than EUR 2 billion, i.e. 0,5% of gross domestic product. I can understand the contempt for this tax shift. However, in a time when a government must also make a heavy effort to clean up, such a measure is in any case already a more than sound start. Let me add immediately that we are removing two of the previous comments on the way in which we complete the tax shift on the revenue side and on the claim that we would put capital or capital out of the wind. After all, we will impose an additional charge of EUR 100 million on the banks. The intention was to impose this tax by removing the notional interest on the share of capital that banks had to acquire on the basis of Basel III standards. There is still uncertainty about this. However, I also noted in committee that we will in any case introduce additional charges, so that the EUR 100 million will be filled in. The Cayman tax has just been mentioned. It's not in the fridge at all, even more, the design is ready today. We will test it further with experts, for example people who know Dutch and English practices in this area and who can hopefully make us a little wiser. However, I can assure you that the Cayman Tax Bill will be there very soon in 2015. The government wants to give a first evaluation of this first tax shift as soon as possible, which seems very logical to me. Furthermore, as provided for in the coalition agreement, an additional tax shift will be expected. Their elaboration must be discussed in complete serenity within the government. One of the basic principles is that a tax shift should not become a tax lift. The government has also focused on reducing the burden on labour and increasing the flat-rate deduction of professional costs only for employees, 450 million in 2015 and 900 million from 2016. In 2015, this should generate an average of 150 euros in terms of purchasing power for people. In 2016, this should go to 3 000, with a tension of two to one, which is close to minimum wages compared to the highest wages. The government also believes in "funny enough" is that the debate did not include a more effective customs as an important lever, not only in order to speed up and make our international trade more transparent, but also in brackets, this has not been taken into account at all in revenue projections to obtain additional revenue from customs clearance rights. Today we notice that, given the EU directive, goods can be imported perfectly into the port of Antwerp or the airport of Zaventem, but that the actual customs clearance is done in the Netherlands or France or anywhere so that customs clearance rights do not end up in our treasury, but in those of other countries. It seems to me to be a very useful exercise, during this period of savings and budgetary cuts, to try to recover such income that is literally next to our greenhouse by thoroughly modernising at least certain aspects of customs. This government also wants to restore confidence in taxation. It intends to review the administrative control procedures and, if necessary, adapt them with a view to achieving greater efficiency, effectiveness, fairness, justice and proportionality, in order to also safeguard the fundamental rights of the taxpayer, including the right to privacy. Changes are systematically followed by the publication of frequently asked questions and an update of the relevant administrative comments. The sample fines of 309 % are indeed reduced to a reasonable rate of 150 %. We believe that this can have a recouping effect through more consistent behaviour on the part of people. As regards the confidence in taxation and excess profit rulings, on which much has been to be done lately, this remains to be done. As I said in this Chamber last week, I wish to achieve maximum transparency, but on the understanding that when the ruling committee asks companies to put their financial, commercial and organisational strategies on the table, they must be discreetly involved for well-considered reasons. The government will reform the financial sector on the basis of economic and social needs. I have just pointed out that we will introduce the additional banking tax of 100 million. At European level, we are continuing to participate in the discussions on the regime of enhanced cooperation, in which a financial transaction tax is sought. We will also try to further improve the protection of financial consumers and financial education. As far as the liquidation bonus is concerned, it has just been announced that we have a problem in terms of revenue. Well, we have advanced the introduction of the liquidation bonus by one year, so that it is already applicable to profits from 2014 to 2015. The forecast, provided to me by the FPS Finance, indicates that we can expect 236 million revenues by 2015. Finally, here's one more thing. Someone asked a question about the dislocated zones. The draft law on this subject will be submitted to the Council of Ministers tomorrow, so that we can proceed very quickly with discussions with the regions in order to give the appropriate follow-up to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be so synthetic. I have heard the various statements made by the group leaders and other parliamentarians all day long. I'm trying to make a cross-section of everything I've heard. The members of the committee are present here. Since I am constantly asked the same questions, I can only answer in the same way as in committee. But there are a lot of other parliamentarians, which we are delighted to hear. Timing is important. Successive knowledge of the different plans or figures coming from national or international institutions in a few days – the last ones yesterday or the day before – does not necessarily make things easier. Everyone will agree. I recall that this budget is logically, as always, based on the work of the monitoring committee of the Office of the Plan with the assistance and request of the Institute of National Accounts. All this was done in September. Logically. The government agreement dates from the beginning of October. Therefore, we are working at that time on the basis of a document and figures that we know. I thank President Van Rompuy for having organised committee meetings where both the Court of Auditors, which is a matter of law, and the European Commission, have been heard, which has provided us with some insight. Like probably the Minister of Finance, I am pleased that we have been able to receive the International Monetary Fund and the OECD. We have received figures from Eurostat. The National Bank provided both ad hoc analyses and an overall report, not so long ago. There are still other figures that fall from other institutions, whether solicited or not, analyzed by university professors, etc. Let's agree that it's not easy in such a small space of time to re-adjust the shot each time according to all these time elements. No one has really talked about this in this budgetary process, but we are gradually implementing the 6th reform of the state. This has important implications. I won't go any further since I didn't have any questions about it. With regard to the full application of the ESA 2010 standards, they were also fully met as the Court of Auditors said. But it is also not without budgetary implications for those who have been able to look at the tables. I believe these are important prerequisites. I also believe that we must be able to honestly, loyally and objectively say that, in the figures, whether they relate to growth, deficit or debt, there is also entity I and entity II. If we take, for example, the latest figure from the National Bank – which has surprised everyone a little in the wrong direction – of 3.2% deficit, there is in it 0.4% which concerns entity II. We must be able to take this into account. Consolidation procedures, in entity I and more difficult in entity II, are not such as to simplify matters in this regard. There is another prerequisite that I wanted to move forward. I won't be very long and will simply answer the questions. I have heard the Prime Minister, I have heard parliamentarians, I have heard Mr Dispa, I have heard others, especially the group leader, say the word "federal royalty". It seems to me important, in the weeks, months and years that have just worked in full coordination between all the ministers concerned, regardless of the asymmetries in the political majorities. I think it's important to report it, otherwise everyone's going back. Now, everyone has better move forward. Given these preconditions, the questions that come back are almost similar to those that I was able to hear. First of all, I would like to thank Mr.Dispa, who has already given me an appointment in 2018. He shows confidence, I say it with a blink of an eye. But it is true that, compared to the Stability Pact as such, negotiating and postponing to 2018 seems simpler to manage than having to achieve a balance in two years; no one will deny it at the federal level. God knows that we have had and still have a lot of debate today; it must be admitted that this would have made things much more complicated. It seemed interesting to me to make the point. There's something else I'd like to say to everyone. We are talking about spending, but I see – and I know that my party was part of the previous majority too – that, on the basis of a 50%-50% revenue-expenditure distribution over the last three years, we have recovered $22 billion. I do not take sides on "revenues" in the broad sense of the term; I simply recall this observation of 23 billion in three years when we are talking about 11 billion in five years, but with another key: 70% on expenditure and 30% on revenue. Like Minister Van Overtveldt, I have met with all these institutions and I would like to provide you with some data from the OECD. Mr President, I should like to read four lines. On the development of primary expenditure in Belgium, the OECD tells us: "Since the early 2000s, public expenditure excluding interest charges – in other words primary expenditure – has increased significantly in Belgium, rising by 42.5% of GDP to no less than 51.3% in 2013". (Data from 2014). "In all sub-sectors of general government" – from home to the smallest municipal type or CPAS – "the increase in these spending has in fact far exceeded the trend of GDP growth. However, as revenues grew on average at a rate almost equivalent to trend GDP during this period, the primary balance deteriorated." The OECD sentence which I think is important: "This dynamic is not sustainable on public expenditure". It is not I who say it, and I will keep this document at your disposal if you wish. "It implies either a continuous increase in levies in the economy or an increase in the budget deficit and thus an increase in the debt". On the other hand, as long as we are responsible – and we have a collective responsibility, as I said in a press article – in all ranks, the majority and the opposition combined, I mean complaining or bothering about excessive debt ranging from 105 to 107 per cent, with a deficit of 2.8 to 3.2 per cent depending on whether one considers one or the other figure. As for the growth rate, we had indeed based - Mrs Onkelinx, you said this morning on the radio, quoting the National Bank - on 1.4% to 1.5%. We're up to 0.9%. I would like to say that when one cites an organization, one trusts it completely and one does not pick up such an element to imply that this organization might have a biased view of things. So, Mr.Dispa – and I find your speech very responsible – there is a lot of work on the board and it is important to work right now. I said it in committee and I will keep the floor: we all have an obligation to achieve results both for the Belgian State and for the other entities. Indeed, Europe - we call this, to make media strength, a second session - will evaluate us in March. But let us have decency, let us have intellectual honesty to admit, in any case, that the report of Europe and that of the International Monetary Fund is in favour of us. He mentions in large part: "As you are working mainly on structural measures, you are on the right track and you must persevere in this direction and go much further". Not everything is perfect, and there is the great debate in these institutions about the changeover of any revenue either on capital or on VAT or on real estate, or by applying an environmental tax or other revenue potential, on the harmonisation of VAT, a debate which must take place in Parliament and at the level of the Executive within a time frame which I believe I should be close. I advise you to keep things going again, not to fall into unnecessary cartoons and not to punctuate in all these successive reports, of which we have been able to read, which may or may not please according to his interlocutor. Ms. Fonck legitimately asked herself the same question whether or not the budget was credible. This was in sharper terms consistent with what Mr Dispa said, but she insisted quite a long time ago on these elements and it was very important to re-establish them. Last thing, Mr. President, everyone so far points out that there is virtually no one shot measure. You have to say it, too. In terms of spending, it is sometimes easy to use a one shot measure of a year or two, which can relieve the time to find solutions. Here, the international institutions all stress that we have not resorted to so-called facilitation mechanisms, which may become mechanisms of obligation, I am not guessing. In any event, I believe that this is a point of emphasis at this stage of our work. The interdepartmental provision makes a lot of talk about it. First of all, everyone acknowledged that it had doubled, as it was increased to EUR 296 million. The criticisms raised are, on the one hand, related to the fact that some ministers interviewed have already foreseen possibilities for budgetary catch-up by drawing on this interdepartmental provision. On the other hand, the ease of saying that it is increased, doubled, but on the other hand, like Mary Poppins, said Mr Crusnière and Mrs Onkelinx, everything is stuffed in the bag and we will see to the budgetary control. No! I assure you, and I say it clearly, this is not the approach taken. The interdepartmental provision does not have this primary vocation to fill, like this, whatever happens, by precipitate a particular department. I would add that there is 67 million euros...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u77	Every time we said there was a problem, your ministers said "interdepartmental provision". Then tell them!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u78	I was answering Mr Crusnière. Mr Nollet, who is no longer here, also asked me the question. I even answer the absent because they interrogated me. I repeat, 67.29 million, which corresponds to 1% in terms of staff costs. I draw your attention to the 2014 budget. What have we all retained in terms of line 22-20-4: 22 in terms of investment reduction, 20 in terms of operation, 4 in terms of personnel costs. We made the 2014 budget account. We arrive for operations and investments of 21.6% and for personnel costs of 3.5%. What a case! Because in reality, we increased by 0.5% at the start of 2015 in terms of reducing staff costs. I would say that we are in the average between operation and investment compared to 2014. Simply, the technique has changed. I said it in committee, but I don't know if I made myself clear. The technique has changed since the one which was to provide appropriations which were then adjusted by budget circulars... - I quote Circular 629 of the beginning of this year 2014 saying that we have to save. So I'm not talking bullshit. This circular has been implemented by the departments. The result is that in the end, investments, operating costs, staff reductions have been implemented in the same way as what is budgeted here and so disclaimed! I'm told everywhere that I'm going to be Mary Poppins and that I'm going to have to go pick up money for this interdepartmental provision in a department or department, or even in everyone - when we're in bad faith. I'm telling you, no! I do not know, and whether one or the other speaks out in saying that they will go and ask... there is still a Council of Ministers; there is still a House of Representatives who is there to ask parliamentary questions and I believe that we can therefore reassure in this respect. I will conclude, Mr President, by saying that tomorrow we will also vote for the adjustment with an increase in the provision 2014 (adjusted budget 2014) of 13 million. It is therefore not impossible that one day it should be increased as part of an adjustment. I do not wish to make things clear, but it is not impossible. I could go into the details, but I believe that the work in committee is there to provide the necessary elements. One last word about Justice. I say and confirm what the Prime Minister and Mr. Geens have said. This is a very delicate department. A sum of 61 million has just been released. That is certainly not enough, let us admit. This is the department where the arrears are the most significant. It will be up to our excellent colleague, Minister of Justice, to table the plan he promised in early February. Moreover, I cut the wings off to a duck: the magistrates will be paid! The calculation was based on a 93.7% framework, while 92 % had been used in 2014. Those who announce and repeat that magistrates are not paid the last month are wrong. That is not true: they will be paid like all the civil servants who work.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by answering the questions concerning tax fraud by Mr Gilkinet and Mr Van Hees. As I said in committee and clearly repeat here, the fight against tax fraud is a priority for this government and we will indeed maintain a zero tolerance. With regard to the estimate of 75 million, this is additional to what was previously collected. The government is not counting on it, we want to make a cautious estimate first in order to be able to budget correctly, and everything we collect more will be welcome. We will fight hard for that. Of course, the better the fight against fraud is, the less it will be found, because then the rules will be followed correctly. With regard to the BBI, I can tell you that we do not save and that the budget goes well beyond that of 2014. Mr Van Hees, on the cash threshold, I explained in committee that this is happening following the European directive which is currently being examined and discussed at European level. If necessary, the threshold may be lower. I call on the Socialist colleagues to negotiate this in Europe, and negotiations at European level are under way. It is not the intention to create a black money circuit, but to ensure that our regular market can withstand the comparison with other countries. Belgium is not an island. In this respect, we will continue to differ, but I repeat that Belgium is not an island and that we must behave in accordance with foreign policy. If that threshold is lower, so will it be here. We will focus on the European directive. Mrs Monica De Coninck and Mrs Winckel spoke about the scientific institutions. I would like to thank Mrs De Coninck for giving me a poetic relationship with Mr Reynders. I take note of that and will be happy to pass it on to him as well. In the field of science policy, however, we are ambitious. In fact, we'll go to hell first. Provisions will be made. However, I can tell you that, as soon as I took up this position, I wrote to all the federal scientific institutions asking which projects they regard as priority projects. In the meantime, we have received answers from most federal scientific institutions. We will consult with the federal scientific institutions on what their priorities are and where they can achieve efficiency gains. However, as I said, opening up collections is a clear objective that will also be planned in the long term. I know there are intentional trials going on here. I will look for the so-called differences and take note of the so-called communitarisation. This is not an objective at all. The same applies to the space agency. This agency will be set up to put Belgium on the map in a changing European landscape vis-à-vis ESA. The creation will take place together and with respect for the Communities, although it will be a federal institution set up to put our space policy on the map. Two weeks ago, we invested EUR 260 million in space at the ESA conference in Luxembourg. I take note of the claim that there is communitarisation here. I don't know anything about that. This is not about communitarisation at all. On the contrary, it will be a Belgian space agency to put Belgian space further on the world map. As far as independence is concerned, yes, I am in favour of independence. I don't know what you meant by returning to the past in connection with the Science Councils. I haven't written anywhere that I would abolish the Science Councils. I'll leave that claim in the middle. I have indeed said that we are looking for alternative funding. We do want crowd funding, patronage or media sponsorship so that we can respect the autonomy of the institutions. Autonomy is not communitarisation, but in fact enables the scientific institutions to take their own strength and develop further. In this way they can develop at their own discretion and take into account their own specificity, because no scientific institution is the same. As far as the administration is concerned, we will not support the administration, but we will support the staff. We will have the staff, with all its expertise, tilt into the FWIs and we will make urgent work of it. The consultation sessions have started. I have also been in contact with Mr Jamar to restore the glory of the federal scientific institutions and whatever they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u80	Mrs Sleurs, in terms of consultation with scientific institutions, what is your method? Do you discuss with the officials or do you send them a letter asking for information before deciding? With the Brussels-Capital Region, how do you organise the consultation? Under the old legislature, for example for the new museum, we had concluded agreements with Mr Servais Verherstraeten, the Régie des Bâtiments, Beliris and the City of Brussels. Did you take your pilgrim stick? Have you reached an agreement with the Brussels-Capital Region?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u81	There's going to be a round table in January. There has already been a meeting with the Cabinets, the various federal authorities and the Regions. All Cabinets that have to do with Culture they have already come together. Not the ministers themselves, but the Cabinets have already come together and in January there will be a consultation with all the ministers dealing with culture. The federal scientific institutions themselves are all written down. They have responded almost all of them, and we will hold a meeting with each of them in the coming period to review their budgets and see how we can achieve greater dynamism. In short, there will be meetings with the individual federal scientific institutions, and then with the Ministers for Culture in January.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u82	Does that mean that you can go back, depending on the consultation, for the decisions you announced in committee for the Museum Fin-de-Siècle for example?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u83	I said in committee that I was going to investigate because I wanted to gather the collections together. I would like to see how the Art Moderne collection can be integrated into the Museum Fin-de-Siècle. There is a large area available. I didn't say we were going to delete the Fin-de-Siècle collection.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u84	I didn't say that! For the Musée d'Art Contemporain, can you go back on the basis of the consultation that you will have with the bodies, so as to faithfully implement the agreement that had been concluded between the federal and the Brussels Region?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u85	Both slopes are here. The piste I was just talking about, looking into whether the collection of modern art can go back, is currently under investigation. We will see which slope is the most advantageous for the collection, the result will depend on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we suspend the sitting for five minutes and return to the hemisphere. Everything turns out to be okay by now. So we will continue with the Work chapter in five minutes. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u87	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u88	Mr President, the Minister for Employment, I shall address you in particular. I have already had the opportunity to say so in committee and my group leader too: the budget proposed by the government is socially unjust and totally unbalanced in our view. This is particularly the case in employment and social affairs. He is socially unjust. Let's start with purchasing power. Workers will lose a large and recurring part of their purchasing power because of the index jump, which is absolutely not justified. We've talked a lot about it today. Indeed, when we compare the objective of reducing the wage gap between Belgium and its main commercial competitors, with a figure of 2.9% – this has been mentioned several times during the course of the day – it is unbalanced with regard to the impact of such a measure on workers. If one takes the example of a person earning 3,300 euros gross per month, this will represent 30 000 euros throughout his career. This is a significant impact on a wage gap that is already narrowing vis-à-vis neighbouring countries. But this obviously does not stop there, since you are planning a wage freeze for the next two years, even in sectors that are well. They will therefore be able to distribute more dividends to their shareholders rather than reward their workers. You are also planning measures for involuntary part-time workers. The halving of the income guarantee allowance (AGR) after two years of earnings will affect the already very precarious workers who have agreed to work part-time because they want to get out of unemployment and are forced to do so by their employer, by a labour market which has become too flexible and no longer offers sufficient job guarantees. With regard to labour market flexibility, you and the government as a whole are pleased to have finally managed to create flexijobs. It is enough to turn to Germany, which is a supporter of this type of employment, to see that there are more and more poor workers there. They operate only thanks to their important exports to their neighbours, including Belgium; it is clearly a must. Instead of creating new jobs for unfortunately many job seekers in our country, you are planning measures that will allow people who are already working to work more at lower cost for employers. In terms of flexibility, we can still talk about other measures, including occasional work. You even plan to extend casual work to sectors such as construction and trade, which are already under constant social stress. I want proof of the closures of many Delhaize stores or the problems of detachment in construction. One could also talk about measures at the level of student work which will also generate strong, violent, immediate competition with low-skilled jobs. All this, of course, will not create any additional jobs, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u89	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u90	I'm so that the students can work. But moving to an hourly system rather than a day-time calculation, students' work will be expanded and, in a number of sectors, it will compete with other job seekers. I don't think the time is right.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u91	Are you opposed to this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u92	I replied: the time is not right.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u93	It's a fact. It's important. It takes time to understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u94	You have been told three times that the reform of student work has been carried out under the former legislature. You will aggravate the situation of the people you have put in your measures, i.e. those who work part-time and who have a real margin reduced by half.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u95	You're against it. This is a major political statement. You are against the reform of the calculation of student days. I'm not angry, but I act that you're against it. It's very important to note.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u96	In fact, by developing, on different themes, we talk about students, we talk about casual workers...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u97	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u98	Mrs. Onkelinx, please let Mr. Daerden speak. Mr. Minister, Mr. Daerden has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u99	So, with these different measures, you're not going to create any extra jobs. On the contrary. By introducing, by developing this unfair competition, you risk destroying jobs and discouraging a series of workers. I've just talked about the workers, but you're also very hard at the welfare recipients, imposing an index jump on them. This also applies to pensioners, the unemployed, the pre-pensioners, the disabled. By reducing the welfare envelope that makes it possible to adapt social benefits to the cost of living, by spreading the reference period of unemployment benefits and incapacity for work benefits in the name of I do not know what fraud you point out without ever showing it to us. You also reduce the incapacity for work allowance for unemployed people who have the misfortune of getting sick.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u100	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u101	Minister, you are in favour of these different measures, aren't you? You stand in solidarity with your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u102	I could comment on each of your points, but my colleague will do it very well as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u103	I don't doubt it, but, earlier, you were intervening. So you're very interested.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u104	I'm passionate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u105	As usual. By tightening the conditions for young people's access to integration allowances, you are taking a budgetary measure aimed at saving money on the backs of young people and CPAS. I have just mentioned a series of injustices, but I also point to imbalances. Thus, there is no provision for positive and financial incentives for workers to extend their careers. On the contrary, end-of-career arrangements, such as time credits that allowed them to make a smooth landing thanks to a reduction in their working time, are carried forward by some five years and ten years for heavy trades or in short supply – for example, nurses. These imbalances are accompanied by gifts offered to the bosses. I am not talking about tax gifts here, but only about a few elements gleaned here and there in the social aspect of the government agreement. They will no longer have to pay a supplement in the event of the dismissal of an older worker, with the process of phasing out pre-pensions. They will see the amount of contributions they make to social security, that is to say to solidarity, decrease without any consideration or commitment on their part in terms of maintaining or creating employment. They will indeed be able to dismiss their workers to hire students or casual workers at derisory cost – we return to what we were talking about a moment ago. They'll be able to pay them in the dark by risking just a little pat on their fingers. They will even have a few unemployed made available free of charge through the compulsory work of the long-term unemployed. And above all, what obligations do you impose on them? None! They will not have to make any extra effort to maintain or create employment. Where workers who lose their jobs will be punished, employers will be able to continue to live quietly without any social responsibility. You and the Prime Minister have even said that the conditionality of aid for employment, maintenance and job creation is meaningless and that, even if the social partners reached unanimous agreement on this issue, it would not be applied. In conclusion, the PS has always fought for fiscal policy to be responsible and reasonable, without austerity and for efforts to be distributed as precisely as possible. Your government is committed to a blind austerity cure. It pays the price to the workers, to the social beneficiaries, to the public services. Minister, I don't think that's how you'll create jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u106	Minister, much has already been said here today about reductions in charges, job creation and purchasing power. Much has also been said about the social unrest and the demonstrations that have taken place, with which citizens expressed their concerns. I fully understand these concerns, because the efforts we are calling for are difficult efforts. That is why I would like to make a number of concerns in the context of the discussion. Firstly, the government has provided for a number of social corrections to protect the purchasing power of the lowest incomes and the lowest benefits. The efforts required through the index jump are almost entirely compensated for the low benefits. I refer to the 127 million additional social corrections and 323 million, in 2015, through the welfare envelope. In total, it's going to be 1.5 billion by 2019. It is important that the social partners are also involved in the use of the welfare envelope, because the loss of 2% due to the index jump can be offset by an increase in benefits of 3%. The second social correction is that 900 million will be returned in 2015 and 2016, for those working, through the increase in the flat-rate professional costs, a measure whose lowest wages benefit relatively most. These social corrections are important for protecting the purchasing power of the lowest incomes. I would ask that the social partners be involved. I would also like to draw particular attention to the income guarantee and the measures to be taken to ensure that the effects of the adjustment of the system are properly examined. If not, there is a real chance that these measures will have negative effects. This could lead to new unemployment traps. That's just something the government explicitly wants to avoid. I would therefore ask you to take into account the specific nature of the measure and the target group, because it is often about single, low-skilled women, often with children, who work in the distribution or cleaning sector. I therefore ask you, together with the social partners, to study the effects of this. Secondly, in any case, the efforts required must be used for what they need to be deployed, namely job creation. The reduction in charges is not a Christmas present, at least that is not our intention. It is being used to make companies more competitive, and if that condition is met, additional jobs will indeed be created, up to 60 000 according to the National Bank's calculations. We therefore want agreements to be reached with the social partners on the use of resources and on other social issues, such as transitional measures and the distribution of time-credit, SWT and seniority allowances. We ask that the consultations on these measures be continued. You have already made a great deal of progress in this area, Minister. We hope that the government will be able to take further steps forward. A third concern concerns our social security, the third part of the triptych. We want to make the economy more competitive, we want to create jobs, and at the same time we want to protect the purchasing power of the lowest incomes, so that we can further strengthen our social security as a solidarity insurance for those who have a setback. That is why the growth standard is also important and in our discussion today it is useful to recall that two thirds of the EUR 80 billion contributions to the social security of workers are now brought together by the workers. We therefore have every interest in ensuring that as many people as possible are at work. Job creation is a prerequisite for reducing the burden and shifting the burden, especially in view of the government's ambition to have 25% of the contributions borne by employers. To this end, the tax shift will have to be worked out, with a shift from labour to heavy loads. Finally, Minister, I would like to make another appeal. The social dialogue is a must, which is clear to us and is clear to the government as well. We must do everything we can to facilitate social dialogue and create the necessary margin and space for this. We hope that the elements that will become topical in the coming days will contribute to this. You are already making a great deal of effort in this regard. We must prevent things from being obstructive. It's been enough with the provocative statements. Everyone must show the necessary restraint and make every effort to ensure that social dialogue is properly initiated. We will then be able to achieve social peace in the coming months, much needed to strengthen the economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief because many things have already been said. But it is important for the MR to recall this evening some evidence which, sometimes, is forgotten, drowned in the often ideological exchanges aimed at caricature the government's interventions, particularly in the field of employment, as I have unfortunately still had to hear today. The first of these is that the cost of labour is one of the highest in Europe, and indeed in the world, and that it hinders the competitiveness of all our companies. This does not create employment and endangers the revenues of our social security. To give you a few figures, the wage level in our country is 21.4% above the European average. When the hourly wage in Belgium is 39.6 euros, it is only 34 euros on average for our three main economic partners: the Netherlands, France and Germany. In order to combat this handicap, several measures are taken by this government: a socially corrected index jump, coupled with the wage moderation decided by the previous government for the years 2012, 2013 and 2014. These measures will help to restore some of this competitiveness. The National Bank estimates that this measure will create 33,300 jobs. The combination of this measure with the reduction of social contributions, the measures on the deduction of professional expenses and the employment bonus should create no less than 60,000 jobs, according to the National Bank during the legislature. We must add to this the 160,000 jobs that the Federal Office of the Plan planned during the legislature without the measures that we have taken. This brings to over 220,000 the hopes we have for job creation in the coming legislature. It is these measures that will enable our country to become a job-creator and reverse the loss of international competitiveness and, therefore, safeguard our social security. The second obvious point is that social correction measures will enable the country's lowest wages not to be affected by the measures, or in some cases, by wage increases. We've heard caricatures and lies from many benches. It's time to re-establish the truth. Independent studies have demonstrated this. These corrective measures include the increase in deductible flat-rate charges and the welfare envelope, which will completely eliminate the negative effects on the lowest income. The third clear point to be made in this debate on employment is that the government is reaching out to the social partners so that they can sit at the negotiating table so that they can implement the policies needed for our country. In Belgium, it has always been a tradition to conduct social consultation. It is in our genes and in those of the government to continue in this direction. Mr Vercamer, therefore, I fully agree with your point of view! After recalling these three points, I will simply highlight a few specific and positive measures contained in Minister Peeters' budget. Firstly, the desire to modernise the structures of the Joint Committees with regard to worker/employee harmonization. There is a need to stop shopping between different Joint Committees. This work is going to be difficult and long but I think it's important. It will clarify and simplify the landscape of the Joint Committees. Secondly, the need to take better account of the real training efforts of firms before unilaterally sanctioning them. In the previous legislature, you will remember that Mrs Milquet had sanctioned all companies in a sector without examining the training efforts they had made individually. Some companies that had made efforts were sanctioned because the sector had not done enough. On the other hand, other companies which had not made any effort were not sanctioned because their sector had consented. This view of Minister Milquet has been completely swept away by the Constitutional Court. I am confident that Mr. Peeters will have a more sophisticated vision of rewarding the good students rather than punishing everyone, as Mrs. Milquet did in the previous legislature. The third favourable measure is the postponement of the two-month wage guarantee measure by one year for persons who are ill or disabled. This measure is carried forward for one year. I call for other solutions to be explored because I fear the creation of employment traps. I believe that this year's postponement will be used to find solutions other than that which might be counterproductive. Finally, special attention should be paid to the implementation of the fight against social dumping. The Secretary of State, Mr. Tommelein, took this case in arms since last Friday he has already tabled an action plan. He didn't drag to take the bull with his arms, sorry, by the horns! This is a fundamental point for workers, for employers and for our economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u108	(...) economic and social project for our country. Where the competitiveness of our country is under pressure, where the engine of job creation has been sputtering in recent years, not only in Belgium but also in many other European countries, together we have made a project to restore competitiveness in our country and create jobs in order to secure our social security for the future. Of course, painful measures are needed to do that. They are not easy measures and it is not easy to communicate about them, but this government will. She's gonna do this and she's gonna do it in a good way, I'm sure she will. What is important, of course, is that the boutades and the generalizations finally stop. The way in which some measures are proposed and the creation of panic must stop. This government will have a heavy role, with all ministers and the Prime Minister in the lead, in explaining to the people why we are doing all this. We are not doing this to hurt people or harass them, we are doing this to safeguard the future of our prosperity. An important element that has already been widely addressed this afternoon and which is a very important part of restoring competitiveness is the labour cost handicap that we need to tackle. There are several calculations about that. You have heard a calculation of 10% in the plenary that had moved to the Europe room. Others assume a wage handicap of 4.5 %. In any case, it is clear that, over the years, since the law on competitiveness in 1996, there has been a handicap in our wage costs towards our main trading partners. It is not about Southeast Asia but about the countries that are around us, the countries with which we are in strong competition within Europe. Tackling this pay handicap must be done at two levels. On the one hand, there are wage costs that are too heavy. No one here in the hemisphere disputes that, which is already positive. This has not always been the case in the past. However, everyone recognises that heavy labour costs are a problem and that we must work towards a reduction in the burden of wages. It's in there. The Di Rupo government had already taken a first step. We're going a lot further now. You are talking about 70%. We'll put the remaining 30 % on top. On the other hand, there is automatic indexation, which over the years has given a wrong or slightly too strong evolution of wages. The current government is not taking excessive measures in this respect. It does not decide to abolish the index; wages will remain indexed in the future. The government could also abolish the index, as some put forward. They propose to abolish the index and negotiate wage increases year after year in the National Labour Council or sector. We do not, we still link wages to the increase in life expectancy. However, we note, together with the Socialist colleagues who saw this in the previous government, that the automatic index has led to an excessive increase in wages. The previous government has therefore also had to take measures to compensate for this increase. We have had to change the index basket. Together with Mr Vande Lanotte, we reduced VAT on energy, which was half an index jump. After all, the next index jump only continued six months later. It was therefore widely recognised that we were dealing with a problem in terms of the index. What we are doing with the index jump is putting a final stone in order to review the competitiveness of the overly increased wages. Minister, you announced in committee that you will review the 1996 law and replace a new mechanism, which I believe is also necessary. After all, the decision we have now taken is collectively to make the agreement that wages should no longer evolve and add an index jump to it. We must come up with another mechanism which will allow the sectors to be given more freedom to negotiate wages, but which will nevertheless monitor developments. This is in contrast to the past 15 to 20 years, in which the FPS WASO has never really checked whether wages in the different sectors have increased too much when submitting collective agreements. I look forward to your announced proposals to introduce a better monitoring mechanism in this area so that we do not actually have to do the operation that we now have to do in the future because wages evolve correctly and remain competitive with our trading partners. The panic about that index jump is actually unimaginable. I've just outlined the history again. Mr Clarinval did just as well in French. The consequences of this index jump are being diabolically shaped in an incredible way as if all our families in our country are going to lose their full purchasing power and that we are going to plunge many families into poverty. This is bullshit, of course. It was very interesting this weekend to read the attachment of De Tijd. A similar brochure has been published in French-speaking Belgium. All the measures taken by the federal and regional authorities have been combined and, ultimately, the purchasing power of the families in Flanders will increase in 2015, but that is also the case in Wallonia. The federal government will introduce the flat-rate deduction from 1 January 2015 as opposed to the index jump of which the first legal text has yet to be submitted. This compensates for a lot of extra expenditure. In 2016, the difference will increase as the measure will come at full speed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u109	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u110	The calculation was also made for single people and for families with a single earner. All families win, but you actually wipe that under the mat and that's intellectually unfair. I understand that you must oppose it, but if this measure is there on 1 January 2015 and everyone will feel this in the company tax rates that will leave more, then you must also tell the people. Unfortunately, this is being overlooked. In union meetings this is not told, but this part of the story should also be told, Mrs. Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u111	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u112	Mrs. Temmerman, you don't have to get excited. This is there on January 1st. I heard you say this afternoon that everything that could be negative for employers is being postponed and that everything that is positive is not being postponed. So this is a measure that will take place on 1 January. I also told you that we are still waiting for the legislation on the index jump. We will have to put this into legal texts during the year, but this has been largely compensated in this way. We will also increase the lowest benefits. The weakest categories will then be further helped. Whoever says this is a social massacre is mistaken. This is a real, well-founded measure to restore the competitiveness of our economy and labour costs. A second element in this agreement is that one goes to longer careers. There have been many boutades and generalizations about this. I remember when it became known that a government had been formed the next head in the newspaper was that everyone would have to work for up to 67 years. That's bullshit, not everyone's gonna have to work for up to 67 years. We will hear about this later in the pension debate. The statutory retirement age has a very limited interest in relativity, especially when one moves from unemployment to retirement or when one does not yet have a full career and decides to take up the pension, then one can do so at that age, but otherwise it has little interest. This government aims at longer careers and achieves this at 62 and later at 63 years, then it will be able to take up its statutory pension. There will certainly still be exceptions for heavy-duty professions. That longer work is a core message. There is no denying that either. In Belgium an average of 32.2 years work. In François Hollande's France a career is 34.6 years, in Germany 37.5 years and in the Netherlands 40 years. Belgium has very short careers, which is not sustainable. We must restore this, but we will do so responsibly. If careers become longer, we must also provide the facilities to enable people to perform for so long. We will introduce extensions in terms of the motivated forms of time-credit. We will make working time more flexible so that work and private life can be more closely linked and we will have a modern career, rather than the rigid career that is actually based on legislation from the nineteenth century and the beginning of the twentieth century. That must finally be adjusted, and the government will do so now. We will work on this together with the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u113	Minister, in committee we had the opportunity to ask a number of questions, which were also raised by the Court of Auditors. Unfortunately, some of these questions have not been answered, so I remain in the dark. For example, EUR 127 million has been budgeted for accompanying measures to cushion the effects of the index jump. Together with the Court of Auditors, I note that there is still no clarity as to which tax technique the amount will eventually reach the social benefit recipients. That's very disturbing. Not only will the vast majority of beneficiaries lose 2% of their income because of the index jump, even for partial compensation for the lowest benefits, of which you have already excluded the unemployed, you still do not know how you will do it. The Court of Auditors is also devastating about the lack of data that was worried about a laundry list of savings. I quote: "For a sum of EUR 121 million of savings, no calculation note was delivered to the Court of Auditors. The Court then lists the whole range of measures for which information is lacking. This concerns, inter alia, the calculation of benefits for wholly unemployed persons on the basis of the average or of the 12 months preceding the application. It concerns the abolition of the possibility of being exempted from labour market availability for family or social reasons. It concerns the possibility of imposing heavier administrative sanctions on the unemployed, the imposition of minimum diploma conditions for persons under 21 years of age who apply for an early retirement allowance after their employment period, and the reform of the income guarantee scheme for part-time unemployed. Minister, I can only endorse this ambiguity. I therefore do not understand very well how this government dares to ask Parliament to approve a budget for which the control body has not been given the assessments requested or the basic data to make them possible. That's what worries us. For example, how was the EUR 30 million to be obtained from the calculation of unemployment benefits on the basis of the average of twelve months' wages? As far as I know, no social security institution, such as the RVA, currently has that information. The 15 million that would be taken out of the diploma requirement: how many young people will this mean that they will not receive benefits? The same applies to the requirement that the application fee can be applied for for up to 25 years: how was the amount of EUR 13 million calculated for this purpose? Moreover, I understand that after the recent consultations on this issue, this measure would only start in September 2015. Is this about the school leavers of the school year 2014-2015? In any case, there will be no revenue in 2015 and even a limited yield in 2016. I can go on for a while; very many questions and very few answers, even when I asked these questions in committee. Then there are questionable estimates of some of the lower expenditures. The age for active and passive availability is increased to 65 years. This would mean 6.6 million less expenditure in 2015. If I am not mistaken, the Regions are fully responsible for monitoring active availability and will set their own priorities. How was the EUR 6.6 million calculated? After all, one is entirely dependent on the behaviour and priorities of the sub-entities. I would like to ask, on the brink of this issue, what progress has been made with the consultation which the RVA would have made with regard to availability. I hope I can get an answer to that today. The raising of the age for SWT general scheme to 62 years will yield €21.5 million in 2015 and will yield €15 million for heavy-duty occupations and very long careers up to 58 years. Apart from the Court of Auditors' remark that this adjustment is still the subject of negotiations with the social partners, which in turn will have to adjust collective agreements, which still takes some time and therefore makes the return uncertain, I wonder whether the additional cost of unemployment benefit has been taken into account in this calculation. Or have you really assumed that abolishing the possibility of going to SWT will mean that workers will not be made redundant? In the past, it has been shown that unemployment has also increased in parallel with a reduction in the number of SWTs. I did not get an answer to these questions either. The cacophony on the possible impact of an index jump was so great in committee that it was finally agreed unanimously to organise a special hearing in committee this autumn on the very different figures. As it is in the budget, I would like to remind you that this would increase corporate tax revenues by EUR 215 million in 2015. This assumes that business profits will increase by over EUR 850 million in that year. To my question how that rhymes with the story that the index jump should serve to create jobs and is not meant to create corporate profits, I also did not get an answer. Mr Minister, apart from the fact that the initial budget is all-round and has been built on quicksand, it has already become obsolete and the modest encores that have been made so far in the wake of the social unrest that has caused this government. For example, the runways will, fortunately but, still be accessible for some workers from 55 years of age and, fortunately, some workers will still be entitled to a seniority allowance. For example, the process for raising the age for SWT was softened a bit. This means that many figures in your budget are no longer correct. Mr Minister, allow me to return to the perhaps most harsh measure you have in store for some young school leavers. In the future, they will have to have a higher secondary education diploma in order to qualify for the benefit. From now on, the whole so-called unqualified outflow will have to ensure that they find a job right away. Given their profile and the current situation on the labour market, this will be far from obvious. For Flanders, we are talking about 6 000 young people alone. Those affected are those young people who have fewer school talents, but who might find their way into the labour market if they had appropriate vocational training. For many, the disappearance of the prospect of an occupational benefit will simply mean that they will no longer be registered as seeking employment. It also forces young people who are tired of school to stay in school and to spoil the atmosphere in a number of cases. Instead of waiting for the roll-out of the reform of secondary education, which hopefully will remediate the current waterfall system with a high number of sitting resters, you simply cut the benefits for these young people out of the drive for savings. I would really like to urge that this unwise measure should also be reviewed. Speaking of revisions and social dialogue, I would like to ask you the following. You were mandated by the government to take initiatives to relaunch social dialogue. How far does your mandate go, Minister? There are a number of limited loose ends in the harmonisation of workers and servants, the pension reform, the allocation of resources in the welfare envelope, the allocation of resources from the European Relance Fund and the possible margin of pay following the technical report of the Central Council for Business on labour costs development in Belgium and neighbouring countries. There are also some points which have already been addressed in your draft royal decree and which have been sent to the Council of State, such as the reform of the SWT system, availability and runways. According to an interview with the Prime Minister that was published on Wednesday, consultation on all this would still be possible. I have the impression that you also have an ear for the legitimate desire to investigate a tax shift seriously. But I also hear that your fellow Members are silent and say that a shoemaker should stick to his reading. The grievance within the government is so severe that the Prime Minister apparently asked a number of members of the government to keep their mouths shut in future at the core meeting. I come to my specific questions. What is there any effective possibility of consultation about? What's the status? What's the plan for the next few days? If you are given a mandate, I believe that it should be so broad that you can talk about the issues that really matter, and that you are not bound by your own direct powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u114	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, although my colleague Laurette Onkelinx has already raised this point somewhat, I would like to return very much to the fundamental issue of the fight against over-indebtedness. As we have said, it is certainly not by extending the Centrale de crédits to individuals that you will fight effectively against over-indebtedness. With this measure, it is the most fragile people in our society that you primarily attack. Who are these people who are facing over-indebtedness? Who are these people consulting a debt mediation service? In 80 per cent of cases, they are persons who are not employed and in 4 per cent of cases, pensioners. The average monthly total income of households consulting such a service was €1,422 in 2011, all types of income combined. Given that households monitored by debt mediation services are, on average, 2.23 people, the average monthly income per person is close to 637 euros. They are, therefore, citizens living in poverty. Yes, precariousness and over-indebtedness are intimately linked. It is also not to mention the effect of social repetition of inequalities in this field. In addition, between 2003 and 2010, the cumulative increase in the consumer price index was 16.1 per cent, while the increase in the monthly resources of over-indebted households was only 4.3 per cent. So, yes, current-day debt is becoming more and more important in terms of over-indebtedness. Nearly half of the cases analysed are debt owed exclusively to debts not related to credit agreements. Thus, only 4% of the files analysed contain only debts related to a credit agreement. There is even a steady decline in credit debts among over-indebted people. Public debt is present in 75.2% of cases, housing and energy debts in 67.1%, health-related debts in 58.4% and telecom debts in 51.1% of cases. So the most frequent debts are precisely those that you want to see registered in the Centrale des crédits aux particuliers. Minister, do you honestly believe that it is by making the most precarious of us that you will be able to fight over-indebtedness? Do you really think that recording energy and housing debts can actually help the citizen who struggles for his daily survival, when one knows that the main source of the over-indebtedness comes, in 60 % of cases, from structural insolvency and, in 20 % of cases, from an accident of life? We would have wanted this government to tackle the causes. In this, your government is, indeed, antisocial. As for the Over-indebtedness Treatment Fund, which is a key tool for debt mediators, i.e. people who help people in situations of over-indebtedness on a day-to-day basis, your budget provides for 3.8 million, even though it would take more than 10 million to clear the backlog and secure payments, a difference of about 6.5 million. That is the policy that this government is pursuing and which the Prime Minister still dares to describe as authentically social. This choice is a strong political signal. It illustrates very concretely the anti-social orientations of this government, which prefers to stigmatize.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to change the subject in relation to the previous speakers, since we are pleased to discuss the budget and the policy guidelines for SMEs and self-employed people as well. As you all know, policies relating to self-employed people and SMEs are dear to environmentalists, since we consider them to be agents for development and job creation, but also for innovation. And then these SMEs must be able, for some and to do well, to develop in additional dimensions. In previous legislatures, we have supported many changes and improvements in the status of the self-employed and the development of SMEs because they corresponded to proposals and subjects that we ourselves share. This included the change in the calculation of social contributions from annual income. We're going to have to evaluate the measure. This is important because this measure must be allowed to continue and, at the same time, there must be no side effects that we do not want. In the same way, we supported the reduction of social contributions for the first jobs. These are measures against which we will continue to have a positive attitude. We share the government's objectives on some points, but I really want to ask you again about how you are going to deal with them. With regard to bankruptcies, you say that you absolutely want to intervene in order to give a second chance to the independents or entrepreneurs who are in bankruptcy. We can only support this, and we have tabled texts to say that not only should we have access to a second chance but also to a third chance. The Social Fund must be made available at least twice for persons who are bankrupt because they must be able to access a minimum income that enables them to live in dignity when trying to restore their health or to revive a project. We have also tabled texts for a rebound allowance that would allow these self-employed people to restart their activities. As far as your proposals are concerned, I would like to know how you intended to achieve this way of supporting the bankrupt because, under the previous government, we already had the proposals that I have just mentioned. The majority and the Liberal minister who preceded you refused to work on these texts and to go to these kinds of measures. It is essential for the Commission to start working more quickly with the data transmissions that are possible today and a possibility for the self-employed not to be subjected to too slow paces and sometimes too restrictive responses. With regard to access to credit, we agree with you in the objectives. We worked there under the previous legislature already. Together with Mr. Gilkinet, we have introduced legislation to combat default payments, when an independent person has to change his borrowing structure or investments to reorient his business and is usually stuck in these measures by the banks. The previous government has made arrangements but they are insufficient and do not allow for intervention in favour of the self-employed or entrepreneurs who had contracted their loans before the date of entry into force of the new law. Minister Laruelle relied on moral pressure. Is it sufficient for a renegotiation of the rates and severance benefits that are being claimed, or is it not necessary, minister, to go further than was intended? Is that what you think when you say you have to intervene with the banks? With regard to the mobilization of savings, six or eight years ago we tabled a proposal to oblige banks to propose what we call a green booklet whose deposit was to be used for an economic activity. Your text mentions that you will, with Febelfin, think about how to proceed, even if Febelfin is not the most open partner. I wish you'd told us something else that "we're going to think." With regard to the replacement of self-employed persons, when they no longer know how to work or have to look after a sick family member, this system is interesting, but it does not work, because, in particular, there is no guaranteed minimum income for the self-employed person who will perform the replacement. To this end, we have tabled a bill that sets up an alternative fund on the basis of voluntary contributions from the self-employed who want to participate in this system. The High Council of Self-Employed and SMEs discussed this proposal and issued an opinion which reflected its interest. Here, too, I think that if you want to help the self-employed through difficult times in their lives, you really have to work on it. Starter-S (SPRLS) is a company that an individual can set up without having a euro of capital. Fortunately, it does not work, because it is really a perilous system that disresponsibilizes, disconnects from the need to have, at some point, capital that allows an activity. We see in your note that you're going to fight for no fictitious Starter-S. This system is particularly aberrant. Let us put in place a system that accompanies and obliges young or new independents to have support in their taxation. Let us stop pretending that we can survive with an economic project without having to comply with a minimum of capitalization. Let's look for alternative loans to banks, for example, but let's stop this masquerade of this kind of company. Payment deadlines are among the causes of the bankruptcies of many entrepreneurs. Here too, consideration will be given to ensuring that public authorities have reasonable time limits. It's still aberrant to say that we're going to think, when it's a problem that's been going on for so long. We're going to go from 69 to 61 days. It's also aberrant not to be more demanding. You know that self-employed organisations suggest the establishment of a compensation fund, a public body with funds that could advance the payment due to the company by the public authorities and be reimbursed to the State. I do not understand why this does not appear in the policies you want to pursue. On access to public procurement, I think there is a real job to do. We discussed it a little in committee. If we are to be able to support SMEs and, in particular, artisans, we really need to think about the split of a market, a multi-package tender, so that small businesses can eventually come together to respond to it. The current legislation does not allow children to have access to it. Markets are obtained by large subcontracting companies, and control of the actors who ultimately intervene is lost. This encourages the use of labour on the move. Minister, I would have liked a little more information about the assisting spouse. You wanted to propose that he or she get co-entrepreneur status. In your opinion, agricultural organizations are not in favour of it or, at least, are divided in this regard. I would therefore like to know what your purpose was and how these provisions are interesting and/or seemed so complicated. Finally, with regard to Horeca, in the replies you provided in committee, you explained your opposition to any flat-rate system relating to taxation or social contributions. We have no religion as to method. However, it must be acknowledged that, for years, the way of taxing and trying to find out how to make contributions that give rights to workers in this sector are obsolete and not working. It is true that the caisse method will make the situation more visible, but we know that there are enormous fears about this. Other countries have tried to fix a flat-rate contribution based on the location of the company, the nature of its customers, its turnover. From that point on, it is established that, for example, a restaurant of twenty cutlery in urban areas requires an X number of workers. The costs and social security contributions are then calculated on this basis. I'll stop here. These are questions that have not been answered in committee. That's why I wanted to deepen them with you tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u116	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to speak on two fronts: first, the independents, SMEs and agriculture. Secondly, I would like to speak to Mr Peeters on the economic side. Let me first of all, Minister, welcome the fact that a liberal figure is taking over what has been the most committed political path in favour of the self-employed, farmers and SMEs that our country has known, namely the one exercised, for more than 10 years, by Sabine Laruelle in our federal government. That these skills, which form the DNA of the liberal family, be placed in your hands is an excellent thing. I know your commitment to the rural world and to the entrepreneurial world. The independents of this country will not be abandoned. In 2014, more than one million self-employed persons were employed in Belgium as principal and complementary workers. People who dare, who start, who have faith in their project and who, therefore, support our national economy and invest without counting. The difficulties are numerous and the personal implications are often total. As evidence, the reluctance of some to embark on this course. The rate of entrepreneurship is currently 7% in Belgium, while the European average is 12%. We must, Mr Minister, value this entrepreneurship, support those who want to create, commit themselves. Your predecessor has made an essential shift for the whole world of self-employed and SMEs. I am pleased to see that you will really go beyond the measures taken. This is a positive signal for the sector. In fact, the social status of the self-employed, qualified by your essential security care of those who dare, you consider it secure and respectful. Beyond words, action. It is through a reform of the method of calculating social contributions that the government intends to consolidate the cash flow of the self-employed sector in order to protect them from fluctuations in income. There is currently a significant gap between income and the amount of contributions payable. This is a source of financial fragility. The government agreement stipulates that social contributions will be made as much as possible in line with the current situation of the self-employed. Minister, will this also be the case for self-employed people whose income exceeds the ceiling? How will you adapt this mark-up system? The number of applications for exemption from contributions exploded in 2013. I would also like to hear from you on this point. What are the reasons, the consequences? Do you have any solutions? In addition, as far as SMEs are concerned, you are considering setting up an economic regulatory framework focusing on five main points: competitiveness, lower burdens, financing, administrative simplification and sectoral measures. Mr. Minister, is it already possible for you to clarify the steps that are behind the implementation of this regulatory framework? Within what time frame? What's the agenda? For a long time, the self-employed sector has been subjected to unjustified discrimination and I am pleased to take note of the legalisation of the self-insulated minimum pensions between self-employed and employees from 1 August 2014. The Pensions Commission suggests that social contributions should be increased, in particular by playing on the floor, on a partial increase in the contribution rates on the ceilings. Will you follow this recommendation? How are you going to define the heavy trade in an independent regime? How do you envisage the establishment of the Pension Advisory Committee in the self-employed plan? According to the 2014 key figures of the SPF Economy, the horeca sector recorded an increase of 9.7% in bankruptcies. This is an area that doesn't have an easy life. But I note that it will benefit from a specific plan which will form an integral part of the SME plan, as well as certain provisions concerning the work of students, overtime, the Dimona declaration. This is obviously a positive signal for the horeca sector. Minister, what are the next steps for this SME plan? Are meetings with the horeca sector planned? Do you have an agenda to share with us? I will say a few words about the agricultural sector. You know like me that this fiber is essential to me. I come from this area and I meet him every day. Mr Minister, I really want to highlight a measure that has just been taken and that the sector welcomes with relief: the tax exemption on aid under the Common Agricultural Policy. I have a few points in relation to the agricultural sector. I know that 95 per cent, if not more, of matters are regionalised in agriculture, but you know as well as I do that bankruptcies are on the rise and that the age pyramid is a real problem in this sector. Resumption of agricultural holdings is difficult in terms of the burden of borrowing and the cost of land. I very much hope that you will be able, in consultation with the Regions, to deal with this sector. Another point I would like to highlight is the bilateral negotiations on the free trade agreement between the USA and the European Union. This is a crucial issue. It is about preserving our agricultural model and the interests of Belgian farmers. Indeed, our farmers are subject to high environmental and health requirements and provide quality products, but these measures have a cost. I believe that our producers, our quality products, our breeders cannot be subjected to unfair competition from countries that supply lower quality products. May I seek your opinion on these negotiations? Apart from the points I have just mentioned, I would like you, Minister, to pay attention to these bilateral negotiations. What are Belgium's objectives in this regard? The last point I want to mention is administrative simplification. I think we're talking about it at every level of power. It is a very beautiful slogan, but I very much hope that it can be implemented. When I talk about administrative simplification, it gives me a springboard to talk about economy, Mr Peeters. I congratulate you on the political orientation you have announced, particularly in the area of competition, of consumer rights. Many initiatives are being taken to protect the latter, but companies are not forgotten. With regard to competition, the Price Observatory, the government agreement rightly provides that the fight against price volatility will be a priority. This is a good thing because the agricultural world is really confronted with it. In addition to price volatility, it is also important to identify margins. Indeed, farmers often find themselves in a less favourable competitive position, which may lead to a reduction in margins. The Price Observatory, which must not simply control prices, will have to carry out an analysis of price developments, margins and the functioning of the market, in order to be able to understand the facts and to intervene, if necessary. In your policy statement, you indicate that the Price Observatory must play an important role in market research. You mention a horizontal screening instrument that will identify defects in the functioning of the market. Minister, unless I am mistaken, these horizontal screening procedures have yet to be defined. I'll be really careful about it. Another point I have taken my full attention to, that of the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises. The government agreement provides for a strengthening of its missions. It seems to me that this is going, in terms of administrative simplification, in the right direction. I hope that the agenda will be very short and that it can be set up quickly. A comment on the CRIOC. We talked a lot about it in committee, and it was planned that no budget would be allocated to it. You may have changed direction, tried to find solutions. I believe that there is a need for dialogue with this body whose primary objective is clear. Do you have an agenda in relation to that? Another point is the Centrale des crédits aux particuliers. It was previously agreed to adopt a proactive policy to eliminate the problem of over-indebtedness. It was also agreed to extend the databank to various types of unpaid credits, in order to protect the entrepreneur, but above all the consumer, from debt. I insist, indeed, on this point. Minister, it is necessary that the Centrale des crédits aux particuliers be regarded as an aid to the citizen. It should therefore be noted that it is positive. I would therefore like to know whether you have an agenda in relation to this Centrale des appropriations aux particuliers. Finally, as a training accountant, I would also like to draw your attention to this subject and to administrative simplification, to the changes that you want to drive; we need to have a consultation with the sector and to inform it well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u117	Mr President, Mr Minister for Employment, I do not agree with my colleague, Mr Clarinval, who was creative this evening that you must "take the bull with arms-the-body" but you have work to do, in any case, in three areas! As Minister of Labour, it's normal. You must help create and maintain employment. You must ensure a proper status for workers because it is a factor of competitiveness and internal consumption. Finally, you could do a little foresight to try to pull our economy towards the future. That would be pretty good in a context where, indeed, social consultation works, which must be of great concern to you because you are not helped by your colleagues from the other parties. As far as the status of workers is concerned, I would like to start by making a mistake with regard to the expression of some colleagues. I am thinking of Messrs. Lachaert, Clarinval or Vercamer who came here proudly to explain all the good you do to the workers, with all these social corrections introduced in relation to the index jump and which will even increase the purchasing power, the net income of the workers and the beneficiaries. Their demonstrations are not on the road. The index jump will indeed have a major effect on earnings throughout the career. It also very hard affects all the social beneficiaries and the compensation you have announced through the tax system is insufficient. We have calculated the differential between costs for all beneficiaries: index jumps, non-indexation of flat-rate tax cuts, all other measures which affect, for example, integration allowances, the unemployment supplement for part-time workers – this is the total savings made by the State –, some social corrections and the welfare envelope at 86%. As a result, in four years, EUR 4.259 billion will not be allocated to the most fragile of us. In fact, you do redistribution backwards and, in doing so, you have a behaviour that, socially, is problematic because it will increase the rate of poverty but that, economically, will have a very strong impact through a reduction in internal consumption. In view of your responsibility to provide workers with a decent income and a satisfactory social situation under our social security system, we can only give you an insufficient rating. Secondly, there is the question of creating or maintaining employment. We have heard the announced measures: the continuation of the reductions in contributions for employers, the presupposed effects of the index jump on job creation in a somewhat linear model of the National Bank that we question. Indeed, if the National Bank considers that a reduction in contributions via non-indexing has a positive effect, it does not account for the negative effects on the consumption of the €4 billion measures you take on the social beneficiaries. In relation to these reductions in social contributions, we are concerned about their linear dimension, the non-conditionality of the measures you take to create jobs. Over the years, we have seen the increase in wage subsidies that you take to create jobs. Over the years, these wage subsidies have increased without the federal authority providing itself with the means to verify that employers actually create jobs. Various studies also show that the concentration of these contribution reductions on the lowest wages and on the specific categories which are most difficult to integrate into the labour market had a much greater multiplier effect than the linear reductions as proposed. For us, these reductions in contributions must be directed towards sectors that are likely to pull our economy forward. Finally, we propose, within the framework of the tax shift presented with our alternative budget, to provide for alternative financing of social security. Reductions in social contributions, and therefore in revenue, must be offset by a contribution on capital, which we do not see. I hear your party claim this tax shift, but I also hear others here in the majority strongly contest it. We will remain very attentive. Thirdly, with regard to foresight, I think that the central issue is career. Werkbaar werken, as you say in Dutch. How can we improve the career on the basis of today's findings? The anti-social measures you are taking are in keeping with those of the previous government. Before you, steps have been taken to increase the number of sick people. The age of access to the pension has been delayed. Since some workers in difficult jobs are exhausted by work, they are now ill. We need to renew the career, to propose a modern way of adjusting it according to the evolution of workers' abilities, the psychological and physical burden of work, also in the light of the growing number of burn outs, of workers exhausted by stress at work. As such, we strongly challenge the savings you have made in terms of time credit. Time credit, particularly end-of-care credit, is a way for workers to stay in office longer but with a lower occupational load. This also creates employment for young workers who replace older workers who spend four-fifths of their time or part-time. This is often the case in teaching. Finally, there are more assets and fewer unemployment figures. There is an easier transition from non-employment to employment. When organized as in the case of the Tandem Plan in the French Community, there is also a form of tutoring, of learning the profession. The measures you have taken to abolish the end-of-career credit have a very strong impact on the system of the Tandem Plan which exists in the French Community and which works very well. I tabled an inquiry into the matter for a next committee after the discharge. I hope that we will have a good debate, that you will take the time to analyse this system effectively, to consider its advantages and perhaps to review this linear measure on time credit. As ecologists, we call for real reflection. Just as a Pension Reform Commission was set up, why not set up a Career Commission? I would like to touch on one last point, to avoid Mr Tommelein coming for nothing; it would be discourteous of us. We had a good debate when you came to committee to present your general memorandum of intent on tax evasion. We question some of the elements that are present in your approach. On the other hand, there is one on which we must join: the fight against social dumping. This question is central. It brings together representatives of both workers and employers, particularly in the construction sector. We have to act. Too bad Mr. Van Quickenborne is gone! The Social Affairs Committee must address this issue in parallel with your task. We need to hold hearings with representatives of employers and workers as well as with those who can come and present us with the European directive on the posting of workers as it currently works. We could thus identify how we can move forward in the control of secondment and in the amendment of the directive to prevent jobs from being destroyed at home. This has already been the case for too many years. I hope we haven't reached a point of no return. In any case, the situation is worrying. I have heard you speak quite proactively in this regard. I would like to encourage you in this direction, but I ask that you involve Parliament in your work. Above all, I hope that the parties concerned about this situation will be consistent when they sit in the European Parliament and when their representatives sit on the Council of Ministers. Thus, we could find an agreement to amend this directive, which I would like to point out in conclusion that it was voted by all the traditional parties – with variations depending on the groups, we must admit – when we were already contesting it at the time. The Posting of Workers Directive is really problematic. It's up to you to act now and, if possible, correct this device.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u118	I suggest that the ministers also try to reply within ten minutes. That should be possible. A strong policy must be able to be strongly expressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u119	Mr President, I will do my best. It is a great pleasure for me to take the floor here at 1.15 p.m. I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have been involved in the debate. Firstly, social dialogue. This evening, while many questions were asked about social dialogue, the Group of Ten met. I hope that tomorrow we will receive news on how the Group of Ten will organise its work further. I would like to stress once again that all those who know something about social dialogue should speak with some caution over the next few days and weeks about the social partners and social dialogue. I have had great modesty, both at federal and regional level, to be part of the social dialogue. I still remember very well my first performance in 1996 on the future contract, together with Jean-Luc Dehaene. The social dialogue and the social partners practice the art of the questionable and political is the art of the feasible. We have to respect both of them. As regards the state of play that Mrs Kitir has asked for, I can say the following. The Group of Ten has examined the first stage of the status of workers-servants. That dates back to the last government. A number of elements have not yet been clarified by the social partners. We have made proposals to get out. Mrs De Coninck has made efforts in the past, together with Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo. We are now trying to conclude this first phase by giving the Group of Ten the opportunity to conclude. Secondly, the royal decrees. That is why we need to be clear between ourselves. Mrs Kitir, if we give the opportunity to the social partners, albeit in the management committee of the RVA in the Group of Ten, you cannot blame me for taking too long, nor can you blame me for what you referred to earlier. We are also making adjustments, which also have budgetary implications. You said that the budget is already incorrect because adjustments have been made to the royal decrees. That is correct, but this is to the benefit of what the social partners have proposed. That will have a budgetary cost. However, you should not blame me for being a asking party yourself. I'm willing to adapt. During budgetary control, an adjustment will have to be made once we have fully finalized the royal decisions. We have made efforts to meet a number of needs. You will argue that we have not gone far enough, which is your right. However, it is the majority who have signed the chalk lines in the coalition agreement. We must try to respond to any justified sighs. You have formulated one, especially for the workers of Ford Genk who have received a certificate stating that they should no longer be available for the labour market. As a result of your question, I contacted my regional colleague in Flanders. There are conversations with the VDAB now. I hope that I can solve the problem as quickly as possible, because you are right to make a point there. When the opposition makes justified points, the majority must also take account of them and provide the necessary solutions. The welfare envelope is also a component. There have been discreet contacts almost day and night over the last few weeks. It is, of course, difficult for certain statements to be made that interfere with such contacts. However, we shall continue to discuss it. Yesterday we had a meeting. We have asked ourselves about the welfare envelope the question of what it is about and what amount it is about. For 2015 it amounts to 314 million and for 2016 it amounts to 620 million. That is where the family allowances transferred to the region are deducted from. Let's...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u120	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u121	Mrs Onkelinx, that is the amount that I asked the social partners to negotiate and how we will deal with it. The coalition agreement states that we should focus on the minima, on those who are even below the European poverty threshold. We must focus on this and not give something to everyone, as has happened in the past. The reasoning is that a wealth envelope means adapting benefits and pensions to prosperity, but perhaps it is more important to use money at the lower level. My second question is whether this is also important for the social partners. A third question concerns this EUR 127 million. I said in committee how it was calculated. This 127 million euro was calculated at 1% on the lowest benefits, with the exception of unemployment benefits. That's how we get 127 million. The question is whether we will also give the 127 million to the social partners, which they will then be able to spend. The coalition agreement states the fiscalisation of the wealth envelope. I think that a lot of questions can rightly be asked about how this is organised. That's why it's not in the program law either. We must, together with Mr Van Overtveldt, consider how we can implement a number of fiscalisations there. The same goes for the 127 million. It's my responsibility. I have to negotiate on two fronts, with the social partners and within the government. It's not easy, but I try every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u122	We talked about taxing in committee. You explain how the $127 million was imagined. These are basic benefits, excluding unemployment benefits. Is that to say that you exclude, as far as the welfare envelope is concerned, from redistributing to the lowest allowances, including unemployment benefits?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u123	It's under discussion. I asked the social partners whether they were prepared to negotiate the welfare package, but I will also ask the government whether there is an agreement that this is indeed an element of negotiation. Of course, about how this wealth envelope is spent and how a certain amount will be spent on the lowest incomes, you cannot say that, on the one hand, there must be social dialogue and, on the other hand, there is no clarity about it. It's one or the other. I think it is very important for the social partners to be able to discuss this and, if necessary, to reach an agreement. That takes some time, and it is true that I cannot say much about this at the moment. I think it is important for the social partners to look into this. I'm getting to the index jump. A great deal has been said about this today. There was a great deal of talk about this during the formation of the government, as it is not a simple decision. I understand very well that the opposition has pertinent questions about this. The index jump must make us competitive and, more importantly, create jobs. I refer to 1996 when the same thing happened under Jean-Luc Dehaene. The debate was the same at the time: the cost of wages had to be reduced and the question was what the result would be in terms of employment. That is a pertinent question that can be rightly asked. So I'm putting them together with the opposition. What will be the impact on employment? I can't answer that. In the past, all kinds of tricks have been tried to make this effort acceptable. I fully understand the concerns of those who have to go through this index jump. EUR 2.6 billion is a huge amount; we are calling for a huge effort. The major challenge, in my opinion, is to find a way in which this effort can provide jobs, and that is why social dialogue is so important. Only trade unions and employers can take the necessary concrete steps at interprofessional but certainly also at sectoral and enterprise level. That's the big challenge. The question is whether this will work. Imagine that within a few years we will find that this index gap has not improved employment and competitiveness. That would be a tough fix. I want to do everything I can to make a positive assessment in a few years' time. I will not refer to the National Bank, which speaks of 33 000 jobs. That's macroeconomic. That is why it is so important that it is made concrete. That is the most important thing in policy every time. Macroeconomic decisions are being made. However, what is the micro level? However, the relationship between macro and micro levels is not easy, especially in decision-making. Mrs Kitir, I have replied fully, including in committee, to all the elements of the Court of Auditors. If you're saying you didn't get any answers, I'd like to give them to you. I have answered all the questions of the Court of Auditors. Mr Daerden, you mentioned the eligibility allowance. You're right: it's a very sensitive measure. There too, I refer to the previous government which limited the eligibility allowance to three years. That was an important decision. I now see that we are faced with that decision. I met the Minister of the Brussels Region. He asked me if I knew how many young people and some of the older people will suffer the consequences from 1 January, especially in Brussels, which is very concentrated. He asked what the government would do with that. I understand the concern. As regards diplomas, we have added something to this. Whoever is less than 21 years old must have a diploma certificate. I have also discussed this with the social partners. The aim is purely to encourage young people not to leave school too quickly and to make the necessary efforts to obtain a diploma. I understand that certain young people are tired of school and can no longer sit on the school benches, but want to work with their hands. Some people can't stand the school anymore. Therefore, dual learning and work or dual Ausbildung, as it is called in Germany, must be urgently introduced. The Royal Decree postpones implementation until 1 September and also provides for consultations to be held with regional ministers and governments. That is very important and I will do so. I am very concerned, especially since the two measures now overlap, namely the three years and the diploma. We must ensure that the situation does not become explosive. Certainly in Brussels and perhaps in other regions too, we must pay due attention to this and make sure that the situation is not completely derailed. Mrs Onkelinx and Mr Daerden referred to the problem of income guarantees. Within two years the benefits will be 50%. We must look very carefully at this, especially for women and in the distribution sector. You have given examples. The basic aim of the system is to ensure that employers do not continue to use that tool to keep people at work cheaply. However, it cannot be the intention, if we reduce its application, to push people further into unemployment. We must therefore continue to look for the right measures. A question was also asked about the blacklist. I note that, as far as I am concerned, some of the measures are well-intentioned. They are measures with a clear vision. The same applies to the Central Bank for loans to private individuals. This is the law of August 2001. The then Minister for Economic Affairs was Charles Picqué. At that time, he made it clear what the Central Bank is for loans to private individuals, and I quote: 'This draft is an essential part of a global plan to combat over-indebtedness on the part of families. A reinforced protection against debt burden can therefore only be ensured by a positive file which records all credit agreements and which must be consulted by creditors prior to the granting of a new credit. Now, the Vlaams Centrum Schuldenlast finds the following. Mediation figures show that 42% of cases have telecom problems, 52% have utility problems and 32% have other problems. Would it not be better to propose that the Central Bank for loans to private individuals should be increased to the benefit of protecting the consumer by avoiding the sale of loans to people in such situations? To some people with debt mediation at the OCMW, the banks still try to buy loans. That's not a good thing. This measure is therefore for the better, but it is given a different perspective when you say that people are being blamed. You say that this measure is antisocial, but in substance it is not.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u124	In the way Charles Picqué created it in 2001, what you want to do with it is first of all to extend the scope for consultation to people who should not. These consultations and access are the same as Assuralia's blacklists. You know that very well. This is unacceptable, even in relation to compulsory insurance. You know that all consumer associations, all trade unions have always opposed the extension of the Credit Centre. For once, banks are not the problem with credit. For once, banking institutions do their job properly and do not give credit any way. But there are some who don't do their jobs. This applies to all credit sales. Let us stop allowing that when you buy, where you buy, you will be given unlimited credit that is higher than your purchase. That's what you have to tackle. You must not attack blacklists, according to which no one should have access to anything. I think you're taking the fight against over-indebtedness through the wrong end, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u125	We'll see. I understand that there are also privacy issues that may be responsible for giving figures and information, etc. I have noted the point you made in committee. I will conclude my speech, Mr President. Mr Gilkinet, you also asked a number of questions again, particularly about workable work. You have pointed out a second time the ideas that you have launched in committee. I wrote it down. However, I would like to conclude by saying that, as Mr Lachaert and Mr Vercamer rightly said, the Work section is an important part of the coalition agreement. We must do everything we can to make the plans possible. Mrs Cassart, you mentioned the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises. You also mentioned the problem of CRIOC. We have a meeting tomorrow with CRIOC to consider how to adapt its operation to the needs. I have also already answered the other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you once again for putting the self-employed, the middle classes, farmers and SMEs at the centre of our debate. Let us welcome this day, which is preparing to rise to highlight our budgetary work as well. A few words if you like, point by point. As regards the functioning of the Commission de Dispense des Contributions and its reforms, here are some key elements. First, online forms and speeding up the procedure so as to make it easier to access them. Secondly, greater motivation for the decisions of this committee. Thirdly, an appeal option that will be structured so that those to whom the decision at first instance is not appropriate can plead their case on appeal. Social insurance in the event of bankruptcy is an extremely important element of the government agreement. One of the pillars that brought together the negotiators was to encourage activity, to encourage employment, and to encourage those who are starting to develop their activities. In this regard, I would like to share with you an image. Law has made it possible for bankruptcy to be excusable, but I must say that, economically, socio-economically and even from the point of view of society, this financial excusability of the one who has been bankrupt is not yet a reality. Access to credit is, for example, extremely difficult, if not impossible in a number of situations. We want to put in place mechanisms to give a second chance. I believe that everyone has the right to stumble at a time in his or her life from the moment his or her approach is not fraudulent. We also aim to extend social insurance in the event of bankruptcy in order to allow the people concerned to preserve their rights longer if they were to face bankruptcy. On the other hand, we want a law on business continuity, for example when someone is forced to stop doing business without going bankrupt because the economic situation has deteriorated seriously, because external factors have influenced this activity. We hope that this person will also be able to benefit from the business continuity laws, from a fixed-term allowance to allow him to turn around and imagine other arrangements. I fully agree with you on access to public procurement. We want to systematize information mechanisms for those who may be interested in public procurement, depending on their sector of activity. As far as the assisting spouse and co-entrepreneurship are concerned, I believe that this is a desirable reform. You noted that there was no agreement on the arrangement between the various representative federations. I must therefore continue to consult, in particular with the federations representing the self-employed and the agricultural sector, in order to present a successful project to you in due course. It is well known that the status situation has changed, since there is now, in particular for those born before 1956, a small status which only opens up to a part of the rights; that it diminishes, as in fact, the status of assisting spouse over time. It seems to me that in terms of equality, it would be important to be able to move towards co-entrepreneurship. But I prefer conviction to taxation. I prefer that we give ourselves a little time to be on the same wavelength, so that we can introduce you to a successful project. As far as the starters that you have also mentioned are concerned, this is a subject in which we have been very careful, since there is a phenomenon – which my colleague could detail more precisely than I do – of using the device in a way that is diverted in a number of situations, in particular to obtain access to the territory. We have statistics, notably compiled by INASTI, which are wildly intractable since, between January 2011 and June 2014, no less than 3,200 fictitious starters were written off out of a total of 8,078. This means that 3/8th of the starters were used to obtain undue access to the territory. It is also known that, in the context of the fight against false self-employed persons, a number of risk areas have been identified: the sectors of cleaning, guarding, construction, transport... These are monitored more specifically. My colleague will speak on the social dumping programme which was adopted by the government at first reading on 5 December. As regards the modification of the calculations, the system of contributions is indeed a revolution, if I may say, long overdue and which comes into force in a few days, on 1 January next. In this regard, Mrs Cassart, our intention is not to change the ceilings. They must be respected in their current configuration. On the other hand, this provision will allow the self-employed to pay contributions that are proportionate to their economic reality but above all to avoid those situations where, three years later, the self-employed had to regularize situations, sometimes with income that they no longer had. Income variability was not taken into account; from now on, we are going to stick to this economic reality. Mrs Gerkens - I agree with you - we must assess the mechanism, not only in terms of its budgetary impact but also in terms of the effectiveness of meeting the objective it has set itself. We intend to do this with the relevant interlocutors. I was, again this afternoon, in a working meeting at the UCM, in particular with these items on the agenda. In addition, you stressed in your interventions the need to work specifically on the horeca sector. This sector, like that of construction or part of transport, has shown us, both to Kris Peeters and to myself, the great difficulties that he was facing. The government agreement provided for a series of provisions, either general (reductions in social contributions) or specific to certain sectors. I intend, in the context of the SME plan, in full consultation with my colleagues, to take sectoral measures aimed at both the Horeca and the construction sector. Some of these measures are already included in the government agreement. There are modulations that I support regarding the calculation of student work or people who are part of casual work, concerning the possibility of extending the days and mechanisms of overtime. I believe that the sector, which is an important source of employment, needs our full attention and care. Mrs Cassart, for the SME plan, we set ourselves the goal of being able to quickly, i.e. in the first four months of 2015, to present its structured structure. I will first present it to the government after the usual consultations and consultations. This plan will indeed be structured around the themes you have cited. I will conclude by saying that in the area of administrative simplification, there is an abundance of measures that I commit us to re-read collectively in the government agreement. This ranges from the acceleration of payment procedures to the summary order for payment and the formal, definitive commitment, reaffirmed at the moment at this forum to work on deadlines in order to achieve our objective effectively. With regard to payments from public federal institutions – also for those who have responsibilities in local or regional entities – the figures are not always praiseworthy in a number of situations, but our objective is quantified. I am glad that the government agreement has set a number of objectives. We have indeed offered Parliament, if necessary, a number of sticks to fight, our objectives being so clearly quantified. We have also offered the government, by the majority, many parliamentarians the opportunity to highlight how well these quantified targets have been achieved. They have been well established in administrative matters. Mrs Cassart, agriculture is a subject of great interest to you and which you know well. I would like to thank the government for agreeing to extend the tax exemption indefinitely, the various arrangements for the tax treatment of CAP aid. There are disparities in the progress of this case at the level of regional entities. A very special point of attention: our text can only work if the devices are adapted in each of the regions. On Monday, we met with the European Commissioner for Agriculture. We have taken stock of these matters and there are still important work to be done in a region in particular. I hope they can be completed quickly. As regards the resumption of agricultural activity, the matter is mainly regionalised. It mainly affects access to the land, the rise in the prices of the land. I should like to inform you that the European Ministers have received a proposal from the Italian Presidency to organise an interest-free loan scheme for access to land for farmers, among other provisions. We will pay attention to all aspects of agriculture in the free trade negotiations. This is so important, not only for the agricultural sector, but also for other provisions and other sectors. I hope I've gone around too quickly, of course. The material is exciting, it's always a tear to leave it. I see how much you, Mr President, too, would like each and every member of this Parliament to talk for a long time about independents, middle classes, SMEs, but time does not belong to us, even collectively. So, unless you interrupt me, which would allow me to stay in the gallery, I'm gonna have to leave you in a few seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u127	Mr Borsus, if you and the majority find that this matter is so important, I do not understand why the majority is not in numbers to continue this budgetary debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u128	Do Members wish to replicate?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u129	Mr President, I would like to comment on three points. The horeca sector is a complicated sector for which we have been trying to find solutions for years and to combat the black work that has developed there. Between 2000 and 2003, a working group had been set up in Parliament within the Finance Committee. Actors came there with proposals. Representatives of other European countries were also heard. You recalled here the solutions described in the government's policy. What scares me is that it is enough to consider that there are a large number of casual workers and that we will deal with it if we increase flexibility and overtime without increasing the cost to the employer. I think we are going to continue what exists now, that is, we are going to ask workers who work part-time to take on overtime, when they have partial rights and do not know how to organize or prepare their end of career, their pension, which they are entitled to. It is the representatives of the Horeca themselves who complain about this kind of situation. There is real collective work to be done with them and their representatives. I think they are open to a whole series of innovations. You have to imagine another way of doing things and why not something specific for the sector, at least not as you propose. As for the fictitious starters, in the elements that have disturbed you, I note the fact that foreigners come to the territory and use this mechanism. I used the term Starter-S, but the exact term is SPRL-S. It's about being able to create a company with a euro. Is it essentially this mechanism that is used by people who would not really start an activity? That would be one more argument to say that this tool must be stopped. With regard to payment deadlines by federal authorities, I do not understand that you can simply say that a 61-day target is set. It's still not much when you know that, normally, you have to pay within a month. On the other hand, I would agree to put in place a tool that would allow the contractor to have his money after a month and the state to set numerical targets. The State could pay this intermediary with delay, thus imposing interest on late payment. Otherwise, the deadlines are not met and there are no consequences, except for the contractor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u130	Mr Minister, I would like to thank you for listening, for taking on board some of the opposition's sighs, and certainly for having dealt with the Ford workers' dossier in concrete terms and taking the necessary initiatives. I sincerely hope that the result will be positive for those involved. In any case, I would like to thank you for not being deaf to the opposition's comments. You are saying that I would point out to you that because of the adjustments you have made, the budget is no longer correct. Don't get me wrong. I do not blame you for making adjustments, but for doing so through the welfare envelope and through an index jump. You have admitted in your speech that the intentions are good, but that there are obviously some margins to the measures, which may give them a different impression than you mean. If you had really respected the social dialogue, there would have been no revisions. That's the accusation that I'm addressing the government. I understand that you want to restart the social dialogue in a serious way. I also believe you, Minister, but I regret that members of the same government are sending out other signals. Those social partners hear that, too. I very much hope that you will also get your partners in line for the majority consultation. I am truly convinced, like you, that only through a genuine social dialogue can we save the country. If we don't, we're gonna hit the abyss.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u131	We come to the discussion of the energy and environment sectors. There are a limited number of speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u132	Mr President, Madam Minister, I am not going to extend the debate on the whole energy policy or ask you about the extension of Doel 1 and 2. We'll see more clearly tomorrow. I would like to address three budgetary points. First of all, for small consumers, your intention is to reduce the federal contribution. You know that it directly finances social tariffs and energy guidelines for CPAS. For example, the federal electricity contribution pays 95% of these. I have still not understood how to guarantee and maintain social rates and guidelines for CPAS while reducing the federal contribution. I therefore rest with you this simple question of an equation which seems difficult to solve. Then, you liberals, you know that you have to make customers as uncaptured as possible – and that's what the previous government had set out to do, with the Ministers of Economy and Energy. The aim is to compete in a liberalised market. That is why we have allowed consumers to break up with an operator at no cost to leave. We had done a great deal of work on this issue in Parliament. In your note, you reintroduce the coupled sale. However, if we refer to this point, we must speak again of captive clients. You will be able to buy, for example, a 29 Euro boiler – as is currently the case in ads for gsm – except that you will be stuck for several years at the same operator to which you will have to return the device. This is a very bad signal you give to suppliers and consumers. In addition, you will again increase the energy price for some households. I also asked you about the IRE. The government had decided to reduce the budget by 83 per cent. It's obviously huge! I would remind you that IRE is a flourishing Walloon SME, which provides radioelements to nuclear medicine. This institute, which is internationally recognized, is therefore indispensable to our hospitals. Madam Minister, you yourself admitted in committee that you did not know how the IRE was going to live with 83% less. I'm asking you if you've been thinking about it ever since. Or are you going to fish in the interdepartmental supply – in Mary Poppins' bag? What are you going to do with the IRE? I would like you to repeat here that you are not going to apply what you said in committee, value IRE's production and sell it more expensive. I remind you, it's our hospitals that buy this. If hospitals buy more expensive, they will have difficulties and it is the patient who will ultimately pay more. I would like you to tell me about this budget equation which is a little difficult to solve at the moment. Another answer, and I end with that, was the Energy FPS. It is true that there are linear cuts in all departments. The Energy FPS has a lot of essential tasks, especially in relation to the entire energy policy in this country. Here, too, in committee, you told us not to know whether redundancies should be used. Have you seen the officer in charge of the FPS Economy and the FPS Energy to reassure us that there will be no layoffs in this FPS? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u133	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be as concise and clear as Mrs Lalieux in her speech on a very important subject. I would like to share with you, Madam Minister, a number of points which have seemed fundamental to me and to my political group in the discussions we have had in the Committee on the Economy and in the Committee on Health and Social Affairs. First of all, the Energy component. From the beginning of the work in committee, in your presentation setting out the frameworks and benchmarks you set for the policy you wanted to pursue, we were able to see that we agreed – and this is not going to surprise anyone – on the fact that we must continue to ensure security of supply in the short and medium term. On the other hand, I would like to be very clear on the position of the Reform Movement regarding the need to implement the Energy Pact, which takes into account the exit of nuclear power in 2025. Ladies and gentlemen, we have faced a very critical situation in terms of security of supply. Strong measures must therefore be taken to ensure reliable, affordable and sustainable electricity supply. We are therefore going, Madam Minister, to set up a permanent monitoring of production capacity in 2015. To date, we already have instruments such as demand management, import and strategic reserves that will help us set up this monitoring. I shall now turn to the possibility of a ten-year extension of the Doel 1 and 2 reactors. We're discussing it. It's not a surprise for anyone. It goes without saying that we will have to be very vigilant in order to ensure the necessary conditions in terms of safety and security. But we also need to make things clear because we could imagine something else as a result of some of the remarks made in the debates on this subject. For us, there is no question of returning to the exit of nuclear power in 2025. If an extension were to be considered, it would naturally go hand in hand with new negotiations with the plant manager. We are aware that this subject has been controversial for several weeks. In order to prepare for the planned exit of nuclear power, further measures will need to be taken to better manage the potential of demand and achieve the subsequent cost-effective integration of renewable energy. The Reform Movement has never been asked to be in favour of one energy source compared to another, as some have tried to make it seem, but to manage the urgency while reacting and ensuring a sustainable future for future generations. We want, through the Interfederal Energy Pact, in which the Regions and the federal government will have an important responsibility, to create an energy transition that must foster a calm climate and a stable framework for investors and thus enable the necessary socio-economic and environmental transformations. I would like to talk about the environmental aspects that have been discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. It has been noted that sustainable development is for you, Minister, the guiding principle of your departmental competencies. This will result in the adoption of a federal sustainable development plan for the next five years in 2015. The Federal Office of the Plan will propose for the first time in 2015 complementary indicators to measure the quality of life, human development, social progress and sustainability of our economy. These are, in a few lines, the most important aspects. I am sure that for any other comment and for any other aspect of your policy, you will be better able to respond to it than I am.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u134	Mr President, Ministers, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the 5th IPCC report published in early November is a reminder. Scientists indicate that if greenhouse gas emissions continue at their current rate, the increase in average temperatures could reach 4.8 degrees by the year 2100. An increase of 4.8 degrees in 2100 is obviously very abstract. But for millions of people, global warming is no longer abstract. For millions of people, global warming is not a scientific projection but a daily reality. Loss of biodiversity, health risk, sea level rise, drought. Many populations are already experiencing the effects of climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, the consequences of global warming are observed and, on the other hand, the causes are known. Human activity, including the massive use of fossil fuels, is the main cause of global warming, according to scientists. Since global warming is caused by man, it is therefore up to humanity as a whole to put in place the means to contain it. At the 2009 Copenhagen Summit, States committed themselves to taking measures to avoid a warming of more than 2 degrees. Yet, since Copenhagen, the major summits are going on without ever being able to meet this challenge. The Lima Summit has just concluded and unfortunately is no exception. Many NGOs have expressed disappointment. The next step, as we know, will be the Paris conference, which will take place in less than a year's time. The Climate Summit in Paris in December 2015 will be decisive, Minister, to secure an ambitious global agreement to combat this global warming. Until then, important negotiation work will be at work to bring positions closer together. The fight against climate change concerns society as a whole. Unfortunately, debates too often remain confined to insider circles. Yet it is a matter of defining our common future. We are not just talking about majority and opposition. This debate must come out of the diplomatic chamber and include all the components of society. We hope that the federal parliament will be fully involved, particularly through the special committee on climate and sustainable development that has just been set up. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union has just agreed on a 40% reduction target for greenhouse gases by 2030. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions is a challenge but also an opportunity for the economy, for innovation, for employment. Many jobs can be created in the green sectors and in the last straight line towards the Paris Summit, it is our obligation to seize these opportunities. Although the Regions are primarily responsible for the environment, the federal government has many levers. In this respect, our group would like to strongly denounce the drastic policy of reducing the budget of SNCB. I would also like to take this opportunity to remind you of your colleague's presence. Promoting the train is, however, essential to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions in transport. It is also regrettable, Madam Minister, that there are no concrete measures in the area of product policy and the reduction of the use of pesticides and biocides. We regret the 25% reduction in the budget allocated to inspections for compliance with federal environmental legislation. Colleagues, at this stage, we see that this government has few concrete environmental projects. We will be very vigilant, in the coming weeks, in committee, that our country is meeting the challenge and meeting its international commitments. Minister, optimism will be on the table, if ambitions are up to the challenges. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions and interventions which prolong our debates in committee. I'll answer Mrs. Lalieux first. As far as coupled sales are concerned, I know your argument in this respect: you believe that they are contrary to the spirit of market liberalisation and to consumer freedom and protection. Again, I urge you not to be dogmatic about this. I find that no one should, a priori, adopt a dogmatic position in relation to this type of sales by excluding it. Why should consumers continually change suppliers? This obsession with supplier change, in a current situation of potential shortage and discharge, are contradictory elements that put people in a situation of discomfort and uncertainty that is sometimes at the opposite of what the framework in which they feel they can contract for their supply of energy should be. I really intend to open my mind to this, which does not mean that we will necessarily favour this type of sales, but at least look at the extent to which it is not interesting to reopen this discussion and see how a different way of organising the market, while leaving it open, cannot be beneficial to the consumer. So no ideological position in this matter, please, but a pragmatic position! As far as the federal contribution is concerned, we have already discussed it. My predecessor had capped this measure, as we know, but I am being asked to look for a formula in which the price of energy would be affordable and reliable and sufficient production. These three elements, together with sustained attention to the environment in terms of energy production in this country, must lead me to reconsider all the aspects that constitute the price of energy. You know there's not just the federal contribution in there. We find a kyriella, if I may say so, of all kinds of contributions fixed on all levels of the state, which make up about 60% of the price, while that of the matter occupies a less and less important share – namely 39 to 40%. Give me time to re-examine this. I know you are convinced that the only way to act on the price is to receive the federal contribution. But I never said I was going to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u136	You didn't understand me well. If I'm talking about the federal contribution, it's because – as you know very well – our colleague David Clarinval has made it a battlehorse and this issue is included in your general policy note. It indicates that you will significantly reduce the federal contribution. However, it is the only one that finances the guidelines of the CPAS and the social electricity tariffs. I therefore ask you today whether you will maintain in 2015 and 2016 all the guidelines with equal budget for CPAS. It's fundamental for people to have access to gas and electricity. That's all I'm asking you, it's not an obsession. If you don't reduce it, it's still good for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u137	I have already told you in committee that I need a little time to look at this. I know that you care a lot about it and that you feel that, if we touch this federal contribution, it will cause difficulties for CPAS. I'd like to have some time to look at this aspect of things, which I couldn't do. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u138	How long? I ask my colleague Mrs. Onkelinx for a remission at three months. Perfect, thank you very much, ladies. The last question you asked concerns the IRE. Indeed, the IRE's budget, as I have seen myself with you in committee, seems to me to have been too drastically reduced. I have planned, since we discussed it in committee, an appointment with the heads of this institution to know their plans and the exact way in which they work. I suggested the idea in committee - which immediately led to a sharp reaction - of valuing the radioisotopes produced by the institute, which are of world repute in terms of quality and medical application, which are exported abroad and also serve in Belgium, naturally influencing the financing of social security through their cost and used mainly in cancer care. When I had the nerve to say that perhaps we had to look to a greater exploitation of these elements in order to provide additional income to this institute, I should perhaps have said that I was going to wait to meet the people who run this institute to discuss this issue with them, what I'm going to do, and see what their reactions to it are. I had imagined that a tiny increase in the thousands of radioisotopes produced in this way would not cause significant difficulties. I'll see, when I know the exact numbers, what's going on. Maybe I'll join your idea. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u139	Three months, too? No, I'm asking for a little more. I can come back as part of the budgetary adjustment. These are three specific questions that obviously require me to deepen the file. For the first element it is three months and for the second, it will be five months. I thank Mrs Jadin for her speech. As I have repeated on several occasions in committee, it is obvious... (...): She's gone.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u140	I will tell him personally what I think of his intervention. I'm getting to Mr. Senesael. Mr Senesael, I very much appreciate your speech. I know you are a strong advocate of the environment and the climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u141	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u142	Apparently, Mr. Gilkinet thinks you haven't gone through enough. Perhaps you should ask her for a remission, as I did with Mrs. Lalieux. I come seriously back to the fundamental issue of Belgium's global investment and involvement in climate and greenhouse gas reduction efforts in order to prevent temperatures from rising and creating ecological disasters, which the Green Fund is intended to address in developing countries. You have seen that Belgium has been involved at the federal level, with the help of my colleague Alexander De Croo here, to the tune of 50 million euros. I guess this can bring a positive appreciation to your leader. This was announced at the Lima Conference. This Conference took place as far as possible in order to be able to draw up a minimum minimum content for a binding agreement in Paris next year. I think that Belgium, which is a pioneer country, does not have to be ashamed of its financial involvement or its involvement in its projects. You say that there are not many projects on the government table in terms of environment and sustainable development. I have already explained to you in committee that there is a preliminary draft of a federal sustainable development plan which will be adopted in plenary in January. The aim is to consult this document in March and April 2015. It's still a three-month discount, but it's not my fault. That's the procedure. We look forward to receiving all of these documents so that we can work on them in depth next year. A little patience. If you will, we will certainly have the opportunity to deepen these issues when we have the documents and can share them with a fairly broad audience. I had even said that, as a result of this consultation, I wanted to see a committee devoted solely to this. Mrs Gerkens here was very supportive of organising this kind of committee in order to open the debate as widely as possible on this subject. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your patience and for giving me the necessary discounts to deepen our work. I would also like to say to Mrs Onkelinx that, in my committee, I do not have to complain about the opposition. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, She's very constructive. Among other things, it has recently allowed me to go to the Royal Academy for twenty minutes and then resume our work. All I have to do is congratulate myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u143	If there are no more replies, we will begin with the chapter on mobility. There are three speakers. First of all, Mr Foret has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u144	Mr President, Madam Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure, who has conducted the various work - and we can also recognise it - by hand, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the current situation of the country's various transport networks and the geographical position we occupy in the heart of Europe, mobility represents a major challenge for Belgium which the federal government will have to face in the coming years. The importance given to Mobility in the government agreement is entirely legitimate. This is reflected in the strong commitments and the proactive policy that is being sought in this area. These strong commitments are also reflected in both the General Policy Note of the Mobility Department and in the Minister's frank, supported and ambitious speech. Indeed, two months after you took office, minister, we already see it as clearer in the policy you want to pursue next year and throughout the legislature. The first steps, I believe, are in the right direction, that of mobility adapted to the needs and constraints of today and tomorrow. The axes that will guide your policy are not only rightly considered priorities but are also perfectly complementary and even necessary to each other. Sustainable mobility, first of all, is more essential than ever. First of all, because it contributes significantly to the fight against global warming, in which the federal government is fully involved. And also because better thought and better built mobility will have a significant impact on the congestion problems our country is experiencing too well. Secondly, improving safety remains one of the top priorities of this government, whether it concerns road transport, rail or air transport. This is a strong commitment of the government. How can we think about more efficient and sustainable mobility without working towards co-modality in perfect cooperation with federated entities? Consideration of mobility must be considered from all available modes of transport in order to be effective, which implies a dialogue between all levels of power that can be involved or impacted, from municipalities to the federal state and through the Regions and the provinces. The government's course in terms of mobility is therefore clear, coherent and ambitious. And for the implementation of this policy, the method of work that you want to introduce will be decisive, Madam Minister. The preliminary analysis of the various files, which was carried out during the first few weeks of the legislature, allowed you to see more clearly in the work that awaits you and in the timing to be printed on the various files that you are in charge of with a permanent red thread: the search for the general interest. This year 2015 will be marked by the start of the various flagship projects of the legislature, with mainly road safety, the modernisation of the railways, the overflight of Brussels and the cooperation agreement for Belgocontrol. Of course, we must remain realistic. Given the magnitude of the task and the importance of the outcome of these issues, it will be necessary to move this forward, without haste, step by step. This government has no right to error or waste of time. It's not too late, but it's high time. If your mission, as Minister of Mobility, is in itself colossal, it is obvious that the rail issue will be central to your work in the legislature. The situation you inherit is certainly not idyllic. We all know it and the challenge is immense. The current financial situation of the railways, SNCB and Infrabel, is hardly resounding. The difficult fiscal and economic environment, which requires the State to reduce and control its spending, does not facilitate the equation. Since 1998, when the previous transport plan came into force, the number of passengers has grown by 70 per cent. At the same time, safety standards have been continuously revised upwards and the infrastructure has had to be adapted. It is therefore a real change and a new reality that you will have to take into account in order to move the model of the rail of tomorrow towards a better one. I'm trying a little Dutch word, "Besteming beter." This complicated situation requires more than ever the adoption of a courageous, responsible and transparent position to meet the challenges. Despite this context, however, it will be essential to provide the necessary resources to SNCB and Infrabel to carry out their missions and achieve the following objectives. First of all, security, a subject of which the importance naturally makes consensus. If some of the investments previously planned are to be carried over, no reduction in expenditure will affect the efforts made to ensure maximum rail safety. Secondly, debt relief and financial consolidation. More clarity, efficiency and, in particular, the elimination of unnecessary and costly subsidiaries will be required. Secondly, the improvement of the service provided to users, such as punctuality, information and communication of schedules, but also comfort in the broad sense of passengers. Finally, taking into account the needs of different age groups and the specific needs of people with reduced mobility. These are clear and ambitious objectives that demonstrate strong commitments on the part of this government to bring about a new plan and management contract within a few months and, subsequently, a new investment plan and, finally, a new transport plan. Of course, these rail-related objectives cannot be seen in the context of more sustainable and efficient mobility unless they are part of an integrated global public transport offer and a multimodal approach to mobility. The different modes of transport and, a fortiori, public transport such as metro, tram, bus and train must be more interconnected and the integration of rail into other networks must be a priority. The debate on intermodal mobility that you propose to launch must allow for more effective cooperation between the federal and the federated entities; for example, in terms of harmonization of timetables, rates, integrated tickets, easier connections and easy access to car parks. To do this, it is necessary that the federal level, through you, the Minister, act as a facilitator between all levels of authority. Strong collaboration is needed between federal and regional authorities, on the one hand, between SNCB and regional public transport companies, on the other, but also by integrating provinces and municipalities, the levels of power closest to citizens. The search for more effective mobility is all the more important as it is fully in line with your desire, Minister, to make mobility a strong lever for economic development. This is again an ambitious and vital vision for our country, given its geographical position and the place of logistics and transport in our economy. Of course, I can only congratulate you. I would like to mention a few examples, in particular the measures to ensure the competitiveness of our transport companies, whether maritime or road, which are currently facing unfair external competition. I would also like to mention the support for rail infrastructure projects for freight and the accessibility of economic attractiveness poles. There is also the rapid creation of a legal framework regulating the use of drones, allowing for new job-generating channels as well as strong support for combined and diffuse transport. Finally, the creation of a level playing field between Belgian airports will allow them to evolve in a healthy Belgian competitive environment, but also to strengthen their position in the face of European competition. In the end, and in conclusion, the challenges that you are about to face, Minister, are, of course, enormous, but certainly commensurate with your ambition and determination. The situation is not optimal, it is true. Moreover, the efforts we are trying to make on all levels of the State, in the interests of responsibility, are hardly conducive to your task. If a situation is never definitively acquired, it is never definitively lost either. The goals that you have courageously set yourself – optimism and will, Mrs.Onkelinx – fit perfectly with the government's vision of transforming our country's mobility to make it more sustainable, more efficient, cleaner, more efficient. The measures that you are advocating, like many other measures contained in this government agreement, are essential and require that they be put in place, if not urgent, at least as quickly as possible. This includes the survival of the Belgian rail. Minister, hold on! Keep going! Be assured, in any case, of the unwavering support of the majority in your action within this government. May all the good wills, also accompany you for the general interest, and may the federated entities accept your proposal for cooperation, because the success of these projects also depends on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u145	Mr Foret has already dealt with the chapter on SNCB. Therefore, we will first consolidate the interventions concerning SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u146	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have shared Mr Foret's enthusiasm for a moment. Indeed, on paper, Madam Minister, you are very ambitious. I share it. You want to develop sustainable mobility for the benefit of the economy, the environment and air quality. In your view, the train is part of the solution, in particular to solve the overall mobility problem. Thus, you want an integrated public transport offer and meet the needs of the Regions. You also say that you will do everything possible to increase the use of Belgian railways. All these words, like those spoken by Mr.Foret, sound very well and they almost make you dream. You say that you will not touch rural lines, that you will increase capacity, continue to invest in safety, develop and accelerate investments for the RER, order studies for a RER in Antwerp, Liège, Ghent, Charleroi. All this, Madam Minister, with $2.1 billion less... I won't be long, but the Prime Minister told us earlier that it was high time to stop the caricatures, stop lying to the citizens and tell them that it would be difficult. So, Madam Minister, it is high time to tell commuters and railway workers that this sustainable mobility you are talking about will be impossible. It is also high time to tell us what the government's political priorities are in terms of mobility and not to refer everything back to the delegated administrators, who must submit proposals to you with 663 million less each year. It's simply impossible! And that is to refer policies to delegated administrators who do not have the freedom to act. Minister, this is the art of smoking and hijacking. In addition, ideologically, I have the impression that you are preparing for a liberalisation of rail and are going to argue in this direction. Look at Mr. Smile. From Croo! He said: "Finally, the last sector not to have been liberalised will be because of Europe!" Madam Minister, I would like you to repeat here your position at European level with regard to the liberalisation of the train sector in the field of passenger transport. You know that the previous government was against it and I hope that this government will support the same position, which you share, I would remind you, and which you have signed with Benelux, our neighbours, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. Minister, I don't see how you're going to save $2.1 billion, it's just huge! I would remind you that these are trains. If you want to increase traffic, you have to maintain rails, buy cars, invest in signalling, in safety. We do not know how to increase attendance, increase punctuality, do not dismiss and decrease budgets. At the same time, you are obsessing about debt reduction. SNCB's debt is huge, I share that. Not only is it 2.1 billion less, but at the same time, at what rate will they have to reduce this debt? This, of course, also means savings that companies will have to make in their own right, in addition to your savings. So I share your ambition, I share your good will, but I think we have to tell the truth to the railwaymen and commuters: with the reductions in funding, you will not be able to achieve a sustainable mobility model for tomorrow's Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u147	Mr President, Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat my speech from the committee, although I naturally thought it was a very good speech, which I still support. But it would be great to repeat it here. The essence of my speech on road safety is still the same, in particular, Madam Minister, that there are very good initiatives in your policy letter but that either there are no funds available for it or you no longer have the competence. Let me give a very concrete example. Last week, I asked you a question about blind spot accidents, which you have always said you are sensitive to and that you want to do something about them. When I asked the specific question, the answer was that there is no money for it. In reality, you lack the means to do something. About SNCB now. Your government wants to save 11 billion overall, of which 2.1 billion will be transferred to SNCB. Without repeating myself, I would like to quote the figures so that everyone here knows what amounts are involved. This amounts to 188 million euros for 2015, 307 million euros for 2016, 426 million euros for 2017, 544 million euros for 2018, and 663 million euros for 2019. That's the choice of this government. We cannot say that there is no alternative. This is really a choice that this government, probably also this majority, makes. I expect that in 10 years' time, at the end of the budget debate, other fellow Members will be sitting in the Chair, I do not know which party will say that a major mistake was made by the majority in this House 10 years ago, because today, anno 2024, there is a lack of punctuality and a lack of comfort. I do not do fortunetelling, I do not have a glass ball, but they will blame the lack of punctuality and lack of comfort due to a lack of equipment, inadequate equipment and the lamentable stations because of the vote that will take place here on Friday. The fact that the savings path for SNCB and Infrabel amounts to 2.1 billion will have enormous consequences for society. Please do not come here with excuses, because they are not for the choice that is being made here. This must be known in the interests of clarity, including by all the members of the majority who support it. I think no one on the railways, from high to low, will say that there is no way to work more efficiently. I also think that no one will be found to deny that. I also think that no one will be found, from low to high, who will say that the savings that the government is now imposing on them as a company are regarded as realistic. This will mean a drastic reduction in the staff quota, the closure of smaller stations and stops, the abolition of trains in rural areas, the further abolition of early and late trains, the postponement of investment, the delay in replacing train equipment and, de facto, a reduction in the use of train equipment on lines to mainly rural municipalities. Let me take the example of the Kempen region. There is no realization of suburban networks yet, so no GEN around Antwerp, Ghent, Charleroi, Liège and so on. You say you will bet on more buses that drive, but today De Lijn decided to let fewer buses run. I do know that there are individuals who will sometimes put in a bus, but that will not save us here. Madam Minister, knowing this, I do not think that anyone of the majority who will approve the budget should ask a question in this committee in the coming year about a station that is not being renovated in their neighbourhood, about a stop point that is being abolished in their neighbourhood, about the lack of further investment in regional lines. If this is approved here, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you will know that this is the consequence. For the Infrastructure Committee's agenda, it would be much better not to interfere with that. The consequence of approving a saving of 2.1 billion is what I have just listed. I have heard from the passenger organisation that a conservative government wants to stand still and that a progressive government investing in public transport wants to move forward. Now I can criticize, but how can we get out of this impasse? The government agreement also stated that mobility should be considered in a broader context and that a mobility budget should be considered. This implies looking at, for example, the taxation of commercial vehicles. Today, EUR 4 billion net is spent on this concession. I believe that this should be looked at in a broader context. I will not say that the tax advantage for commercial cars should be abolished at once, because I also believe that there can be no net loss from the people who are calling on a company car today, just because there is a compensation for the wage. This should be included in a wider debate so that there is no net loss for those working people. That debate must be held. However, let us have the honesty to make not only a saving of 2.1 billion on public transport, just on the amount for Infrabel and SNCB. We must also look at direct and indirect subsidies for car mobility. I think good roads and good traffic are important, but investing in public transport actually also means ensuring bicycle mobility, car mobility and investing in flow. I received figures from the FPS Economy yesterday. This showed that the fleet grew by 18% between 2002 and 2012. So today we are going to a vehicle per two inhabitants. The situation on 1 August 2013 was 5 493 472 vehicles. If we do not continue to invest in public transport, we will all stop. It has just been said here that we came to second and third place for sister and so on. Well, I know what we're in first place, and that's for traffic jams. I would like to comment briefly on the economic transport of goods. Last week, the Liefkenshoek railway tunnel was opened. I once asked for the figures and analysed them. According to the figures I have at my disposal today, Infrabel will have to pay EUR 38 million to the THV Locorail consortium for 50 years. This is estimated to mean a charge of EUR 1 650 for each train that will use the Liefkenshoek railway tunnel. I'm comparing that to freight costs. A truck using the Liefkenshoek tunnel pays 14 to 19 euros. The question arises to what extent the tunnel is paid off? My great fear is that money will go back from public funds to commercial resources. There is, in my view, an alternative, and anyone who approves this budget today should not complain afterwards. I have another question for Minister De Croo about the Bpost reform plan that was discussed in committee. Have you been with the management team to avoid a social conflict arising from the forthcoming reforms?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u148	Mrs. Galant, when I heard you in committee, you made me think of a character from a Tintin album. I don't know if you know these albums. I found it: it's in The Blue Lotus. This character is the madman who tells Tintin that we have to find the way, that he's going to help him find her and that he's going to cut his head off. In committee, that's kind of what you made me think. You're replacing head by head and we're there. We're gonna cut down the staffing and we're gonna find the way, because in terms of railways, the track is essential. Despite this, we're going to improve punctuality, we're going to improve safety, we're going to reduce CO2 emissions, and I don't know what else because your catalogue of intentions is such that I can't remember anything there. You also say that "savings must be an opportunity for these companies". Infrabel and SNCB are lucky, we're going to cut in their endowments. It's amazing how lucky they are. They need to take advantage of this opportunity to modernize themselves. That's amazing! Let's get the numbers straight. In 2015, 188 million savings attributable to your government. Plus the 150 million savings of the previous government. Plus 30 million index jumps and 1.8 million Go Pass. That's 370 million savings. In 2018, there will be 663 million savings for your government. But we must add the 150 million of the previous government, the 30 million index jump and 1.8 million Go Pass. We're getting 845 million a year. Starting in 2018, every year, if we don't increase afterwards, it's almost $1 billion less for SNCB. What pass trick are you going to do to settle this? In committee, you mention one concrete element, that is the fact that there are too many subsidiaries. That's the answer to everything. The problem is, there are too many subsidiaries. It's a little easy to reduce everything to that because it's the only concrete element you've given. I would take you to the point on the issue of subsidiaries because, since then, I have had the opportunity to discuss with trade union workers. They do recognize that there are too many subsidiaries. The trade unionists are joining you. There are too many subsidiaries. How do you intend to solve this problem? The trade unionists made a proposal that I associate myself with. They suggest that all persons working in subsidiaries in SNCB should be reinstated and given status. If you also find that there are too many subsidiaries, this is the solution that will also make you popular with railway workers. With regard to punctuality, I personally note – because I have this failure to take the train – that, in recent weeks, every day the trains were lagging behind, before you reduced your staffing. You will tell me that this is not related to the measures taken by the government. On Mondays, they're not late. The year 2013, the last year in which statistics are available, is the absolute record in terms of non-compliance with punctuality and trains deleted. I wonder, then, how, with a reduced allocation, you will be able to solve this problem. In terms of employment, it is noted that in ten years there have been 6,000 fewer railway jobs, while the number of travellers has increased by 35%. Mrs. Galant, do you know how many days the railway workers have to get back? No less than 1 million days of overtime leave that they have taken and that they must recover! As far as tariffs are concerned, you tell us that there is a need for greater tariff autonomy. This will be an opportunity to put the traveller at the centre of SNCB's policy. Mrs. Galant, I'd like to make a little equation. For me, tariff autonomy plus reduced allocation equals price increase, price increase! You have less money and I'll let you do what you want in terms of prices, you'll increase them. The same will apply to SNCB, which is not going to reduce them. She's going to raise the ticket price. That's what's already happening. People who do not take their tickets in advance will be overrated by 7 euros. We remove the stations, we remove all the possibilities for travellers to take tickets and who do we sanction? The same travelers! Because if they didn't take their tickets, if they don't have the internet, etc., they'll have to pay 7 euros more. As a minister, you have some power over these public companies. You can impose public service obligations on them. I advise you, since you have such good intentions, to maintain all the lines, the stations, the stops, even the small ones, to keep the trains early in the morning and late in the evening. For my line, it's already missed, because the last two trains of the evening have been removed, but to do so, we'll need a new and revised allocation. As far as liberalisation is concerned, you are telling us that it is important to avoid the occurrence of what happened to the Sabena at SNCB. I feel, unfortunately, that you are putting in place all the ingredients of a Sabena scenario for SNCB. How can you simultaneously reduce debt, endowment, service and, in addition, indicate in the government agreement that "the government wishes to promote the use of railway infrastructure by SNCB and other railway operators. To this end, the infrastructure fee will be reduced."? If the infrastructure fee is reduced, this clearly means an invitation to all private companies to compete with SNCB. You saw the branch on which the SNCB is sitting. You're preparing for the bankruptcy of SNCB. I don't see any other explanations.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u149	My magazine only says Mr. Dedecker. I suggest that the Minister first responds to the questions about SNCB. Then we will deal with the other questions for Minister De Croo.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by saying something about mobility in general in response to Mr Foret's and Mr Geerts' thoughts. As you know, the government agreement focuses on co-modality and thus on the creation of this mobility chain. I repeat that mobility does not stop at the borders of the different regions. It must be a real cross-cutting competence. The public should be encouraged to use all the possibilities offered by public transport (trains, trams, buses) in combination with the car. It is essential to create this mobility chain. The government agreement is clear on this point. As far as the situation of SNCB is concerned, if one does not react and if one speaks only like yours, one prepares for the bankruptcy of SNCB. Today, I repeat, because I have already said this in committee, we must modernise the SNCB, we must stop wasting! However, it is strange to never have to answer interesting parliamentary questions about certain costs, for example! Looks like we're afraid to say some things! For example, there are huge projects for some stations. No inventory of stations has ever been made. How does this work at the moment? It is the mayor of such a commune or the deputy of such a Region who comes to see the officials and the various administrators to ask them for a beautiful station. No, I want an inventory of the stations. I want to make adequate investments where there is real demand. I also want to offer quality service to users. For me, they are clients and they have the right to receive quality service, which is not the case today because we have put resources on other things that were not really necessary for all SNCB clients. What have we decided? There are savings to be made. Everywhere! It is essential to prepare for possible liberalisation. We're not here. Europe talked about 2019. The current Belgian position is still that of Benelux – I have repeated it in committee. If liberalisation were to happen in 2019, we are not ready! So your speech is totally irresponsible. We decided to set up working groups with SNCB, Infrabel and the firm. We will have a long-term vision to modernise the structure of these two public enterprises. You were talking about subsidiaries, but that's not my only point of saving money. Do you find it normal for a subsidiary such as Eurostation to deal with projects in Sri Lanka or other exotic countries? We mobilize resources, we mobilize railwaymen to go to these countries. This is not normal, and it is therefore necessary to return to the primary occupation which is public transport. If there is no reaction and if there is no long-term vision, a modernisation, we go straight into the wall! I have been at SNCB for two months, Mr Cornu has been here for more than a year and every day we discover things! The policy at SNCB was to hide things, not to say anything! We hide the financial situation and make the workers believe a lot of things. But today, we're going to tell the truth and we're going to get out of the numbers. I think it'll hurt!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u151	Mr President, Minister, I do not know who you were looking at when you said that it is not a realistic discourse. I made it clear in my speech that nobody says that there can be no savings, and I said that quite clearly. The only thing I still dispute is that the 2.1 billion will be realistic in order to make those savings. You say that figures were not mentioned in the past. Over the last few years, I have mentioned several figures and also asked questions about, for example, consolidated accounts that were wrong and where there was a transfer of funds. In all honesty, I have also said in the past that savings are possible and that there must be transparency in the accounts. My point is that savings can be made, but I do not believe that the amount of 2.1 billion is realistic without affecting the operation of the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u152	Minister, I don't think we're running trains with slogans. You haven't answered about the $2.1 billion equation, the increase in attendance, and the investments you're planning to make. You haven't answered, and I think you can't answer it. At the same time, I told you in committee, when we have been in charge of such a large public enterprise for two months, with so many workers, there is also a minimum of modesty to have in relation to its predecessors. You're telling me that Mr Cornu is still discovering things at SNCB every day. Let me remind you that, at the head of SNCB, the chairman of SNCB's board of directors has been Mr Fontinoy – an MR for more than ten years! Who was at the head of the SNCB Voyageurs that Mr. Cornu took over? Someone who went to the N-VA, a great manager, Mr.Descheemaeker, who was Open Vld. Stop... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u153	At first. He was named Open Vld, Mr. De Croo. They hid everything. Liberals hide a lot, I'm sorry. Please, minister, a little modesty, and drive trains instead of making slogans.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u154	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not talk about SNCB and Mobility, but about the Digital Agenda, of our brand-new minister, and his telecom policy. First of all, Minister, I would very much like to refer to our discussions in committee, where you have committed yourself to a first-generation mobile strategy, a new modern digital government, which will focus primarily on mobile users, on tablets and smartphones. This week, in a report by iMinds, we have seen a huge increase in media consumption via smartphones and tablets, to the detriment of other devices. A new, digital government must really be on board. It's also a great opportunity for closing the digital divide, along with your colleague from Combating Poverty, Elke Sleurs. We've already lost some of our lead on eID. We must ensure that we do not lose them any further. We need to get back together and not let a country like Estonia pass us by. I am counting on a number of initiatives from you to do so. I'd like to hear more about that. What exactly is in the pipeline? What did you do with the commitment you made last week? Even more important are the situation today in our telecoms market and the promotion of competition. A year and a half ago, in May 2013, we received the signal from Mobistar, a well-known, large operator, that they would stop all their activities on Belgacom's fixed network: no fixed telephony, no fixed internet and no fixed television via satellite anymore. Especially the Internet is important, because that is the enabler of everything. As far as television is concerned, today there is also a shift towards Stievie and Netflix. Without the Internet, they're stuck. If even a big operator like Mobistar says he's out of the game and that it's not going to happen anymore, Mobistar had access to Belgacom's regulated network, but apparently it became impossible to make a good business case, then that says something. We thought there was hope. There was a new operator: SNOW, from BASE. Just today, or yesterday, if you like, BASE announced that it would also throw the towel in the ring. It is no longer possible for them either. However, they did not use the regulated offer. They had a commercial contract with Belgacom. Apparently, that was more interesting than the regulated offer. That's something in itself. It's strange that this is more interesting, but even that was apparently not good enough for a workable business case anymore. Competition on the fixed market is decreasing. We see the result of course: with a distribution among two players there are price increases. Telenet announced a price increase of 2% last week, although we are currently virtually without inflation. If there is a price increase despite zero inflation, this is due to an insufficient competitive market. For the previous minister in charge, it seems to have been more interesting to score with lower rates in the short term, but in the longer term this has brought us a handicap in terms of competition today, which is also detrimental to prices in the longer term. Most of this depends, of course, on the regulator, who really must be able to be autonomous in this matter. After the new year, the members of the board of directors of the BIPT will come to the Infrastructure Committee so that we will be able to talk to them about their initiatives in the field of competitive stimulation. But, Minister, you too, in my opinion, can do a number of things, especially when it comes to a number of tough regulations. This regulation very often misses the goal and makes it difficult for small operators. I am thinking, for example, of the universal service that makes it difficult for small operators to enter our market, which protects the two major players. I would have liked to know from you what initiatives you will take in this area and at what time. On a mobile level, the current situation is much better, but even there the level can be much higher. You already indicated that you would look at the microwave rates, the rates used for wireless connections between the masts of a mobile operator who does not have its own network. These rates are still much higher today than in our neighbouring countries. That is why I am asking you, Minister, what specific initiatives you will take here. Can we expect a reduction in these rates and when? Will you start a study again? A reduction in the rate will result in more revenue for the State, because the use will increase as a result of which the revenue for the government will increase. Of course, a stronger and independent regulator is needed as a final piece. I have already insisted on this during the previous legislature. That is why I have always tabled amendments, including to the telecoms law, but they were rather arrogantly thrown away by the then majority. I was therefore very pleased that I was right about none other than the European Commission. She has subpoenaed us and stated that the regulator is not sufficiently independent. I am pleased that you have taken on board the commitment to strengthen independence and strength. Unlike your predecessor, you are not looking forward to fighting with the European Commission. We will solve the problem effectively and will not continue to defend politicisation. That seems very positive to me. In the short term, the government will remove the possibility for the government to suspend decisions, as well as the adoption of the strategic plan. We also need to go a step further, namely the move towards genuine operational independence, real financial independence in transparency, accountability and relationship with Parliament. That is why I am asking the question as to what period of time you will work on the dossier in accordance with the coalition agreement and carry out studies if necessary? What are the main lines? I have an additional topical question on the subject. I invite you to take a look at the website of the ACV. You will see a very proud message on the ACV website, which says the following. I quote: "The staff of BIPT received a day's service exemption on Monday 8 December and did not have to come to work. With this, the BIPT Council shows its original support for the success of this provincial day of action. Staff therefore do not have to stop and therefore do not suffer any loss of pay. Minister, that is very strange. The BIPT, as the regulator, must be independent, must stand above politics and politics and must stand far away from politics. What does it do? It facilitates a political strike against the current government. As far as I am aware, strikers are still personnel who suffer some loss, because a day's pay returns, to show a commitment and protest. But what do we see here? The BIPT, which should be independent, supports a political strike against the current government. That is very strange and is a very clear political stance taken by a regulator who should be independent. I'm very curious to hear your response to that situation. Is it possible for a regulator to adopt such political positions and, above all, to grant exemption from duty? Those people didn't have to go to work and still got paid their wages. Who's gonna pay for that? Are these the operators via the income of the BIPT or is it deducted from the surplus paid to the State Treasury each year? Did the government actually pay to organize a strike against itself? That's a pressing question. I do not think we can accept this. To conclude with a positive note, when it comes to strikes in public undertakings and public services, I noticed that another public body, in particular bpost, delivered 70% of packages and letters in Flanders. In Wallonia that was much less. What a great difference from the archaic, deviant strike boîte of the past, when it was still a public service. The road has been long, but it seems that the company has been able to modernise, optimize, make it more effective and strengthen its relations with staff in an atmosphere of social peace. That staff is committed to that company, that's wonderful. So I would like to end with this positive note: the importance of good relations between managers and staff in a company that has to prepare to compete. When a company prepares to compete, the management sees the importance of good relationships. They get a better service. That is the right approach and an example for many other public companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u155	Mr President, Mr Geerts, who has since left the sitting, had a question about the Alpha project, a study that makes the management of bpost about the efficiency of central and support services. He made it clear that this study would be carried out without a stated objective in terms of saving or reducing staff. One is looking at how to operate more efficiently. These are not postal service functions or point of contact. I have discussed this with the management of bpost and with the trade union representatives I have met in recent weeks. I have also urged both sides to have sufficient social dialogue. Mr Dedecker, you yourself indicated that there was a complaint from the European Commission about the independence of BIPT. As I pointed out a few times in committee, last week the Council of Ministers approved a two-way KB. The first provision means that the Council of Ministers will no longer be able to break BIPT decisions. The second provision requires that the strategic plan of the BIPT should no longer be proposed in the Council of Ministers, but in Parliament. My practice is that BIPT becomes a truly independent regulator. However, if BIPT is a truly independent regulator, then it also bears a very great responsibility. In other words, the BIPT must take full account of its objectives, e.g. promoting more competition. In my view, this means that in a market like the telecoms market, where everything is going very quickly, BIPT must play very briefly on the ball. I had a discussion this afternoon with the BIPT on the situation of the telecoms market. You will have the opportunity to talk to them about this in committee. I have asked them to list the various actions already planned for greater competition, particularly in the field of the bundle market, which we know is a lack of competition. You mentioned the two operators SNOW and Mobistar. SNOW took advantage of a commercial offer. A regulated offer does not exist today. That regulated offer will in principle come in January 2015. It is, of course, the case that the price level determined by the regulated offer also indirectly affects a possible commercial offer should this be taken into account. Mobistar has not decided to stop his activities, but to wait a bit. The BIPT said that new tariffs would be set in April 2015. There too, the level to be determined is very important. My general message is that an independent regulator in a market like this should try to play on the ball as short as possible. I sometimes have the impression that there is a little too much time between making a decision and carrying out or fully operationalising that decision today. You spoke of the price increase that Telenet announced. I have no intention of intervening in the determination of retail prices. I've only made it clear over the past few weeks that group purchases are possible. I am not saying that we should, but there is a possibility and I do not see why we should not use it. It is, of course, essential that consumers realise that changing operators is not too heavy administratively. We have taken measures to this end in the mobile market, and we have seen that this is having an effect. Measures in the energy market are also having an impact. I have therefore asked BIPT to convert their proposals to KBJVs as soon as possible, so that, in a market where there is a real threat of a problem today, we can at least bring dynamism to the consumer. I also proposed to BIPT that the price study which they will be presenting in January 2015 should give an overview of the various measures in the pipeline to increase competition in the telecoms market. Everything about the ACV and the BIPT is new to me. I'll find out with you and thank you for the detective work, if I may call it that. I will inform myself of that. The BIPT is a body fully funded by the sector. It could even be said that it is being overfunded from the sector. I'll ask the question anyway, because I think it's a bizarre march. Your last element concerned the trade unions at bpost. I have also said in consultation with the trade unions that I very much appreciate their openness of spirit. Who would have thought five years ago that the trade unions at bpost today would be willing to study an experiment on delivery of packages on Sundays? In such a market, which is undergoing enormous changes, the trade unions today set a good example to a number of other sectors. They see that they are subject to innovation and change that cannot be stopped. The only way to take advantage of this is not to go through the future, but to shape the future, and I think that the trade unions at bpost are certainly setting a good example there.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u156	We are now beginning to discuss the chapter on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u157	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate yesterday and at the beginning of the day, there has been a lot of talk about tax shift, justice or tax injustice. Some in the opposition have highlighted the imbalance in the efforts required of our citizens in relation to their income, depending on their ability to contribute. In short, we talked about income inequality in our country, the increase in the number of millionaires, the question of a tax on big fortunes and capital. We talked about the taxation of "Belgium from above". In this speech, which is divided into two parts, I would like to talk to you about the other end of the pyramid, that of low incomes. I would like to talk to you about poverty, precariousness, social exclusion. So, from "Belgium from below." Then, in the second part, if I have time in my 10 minutes, I'd like to talk to you about disability policy, but, given the content of government policy in this area, I think it's bound to be brief. Combating poverty and social integration: I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we must approach this issue with humility, whether in the majority or in the opposition. As you said, poverty is something that is unworthy, it is an infringement of human rights. It is also a complex and multidimensional phenomenon. Nobody really has the key, the unique solution, the miracle recipe. If we want to fight poverty, if we want to eradicate this unacceptable phenomenon in a society as rich as ours, we must mobilize all actors at all levels: public actors, governments, parliaments, administrations, but also, of course, the voluntary sector, social workers. General mobilization is needed at all levels. In that sense, Madam Secretary of State, you have a coordinating role to play among all these actors. We need to have a federal vision of a cross-cutting policy. This requires that you take your pilgrim stick, go to each department to see each colleague and have a reference in each department. In 2008, we tried to have this vision. There was the first federal plan to combat poverty. Unfortunately, less than three months later, it was the Lehman Brothers affair, the financial and banking crisis and all that followed, namely pressure on interest rates, the euro zone confidence crisis and the indebtedness of our country and other states to avoid the bankruptcy of large banks. All this did not help maintain the course of poverty eradication. And unfortunately, as I said, this poverty is gaining ground. This must be seen in the increase in the number of beneficiaries of social integration income, the increase in the number of people living alone with insufficient income to cope with the burdens of daily life, and the phenomena of over-indebtedness. It's an iceberg. There are all the credit defaults that are recorded at the National Bank and that are increasing exponentially, collective debt settlements, debt mediations. The submerged part of the iceberg are all unpaid bills: health, energy, water, rent, tax debt, expulsion judgments related to non-payment of rent. In short, that is the point that needs to be made. In your policy note, you indicate that you want to reduce by 2020, as foreseen in the National Reform Programme, the number of people living below the poverty line in our country by 380,000. Of course, one can only adhere to a goal of reducing the number of people living in poverty. However, Europe has declined. In 2000, Europe said at the Lisbon Summit that the governments of the Member States should make their best efforts to achieve poverty eradication. That was the Lisbon objective. It was indeed an ambitious objective but perhaps the means did not follow and there was no monitoring, monitoring and financial means to achieve this objective. In 2010, the 2020 target was to say, "We're going to cut by 20%". It's a step backwards. Belgium was isolated in this debate and, unfortunately, the European Union merely said that the number of people living in poverty would be reduced by only 20%. It was therefore normal that in a decade there would still be 80%, which is between 80 and 100 million Europeans living in poverty. Are we going to reach the goal? Here, too, I have no doubt. I would then like to turn to the content of the notes on the fight against poverty. Activation. We are of course in favour of the idea that people receiving RIS should be accompanied, supervised, trained and tried to bring them back to work. It is not simple, because poverty is a complex phenomenon that combines several problems. But activation is not the only way, as you seem to indicate, to fight poverty and break the vicious cycle of poverty. Income is not the only bias. It is important, of course, but there are other elements and activation is not the miracle recipe that will fix everything. Poverty of people who work. It can be seen that more and more European countries, including Belgium, are seeing an increasing number of people working, however, having an income below the poverty line or having to receive an RIS supplement because their income is insufficient. This phenomenon is steadily increasing. Poverty of older people, elderly people; disabled people who are not all able to work and who also have an allowance below the poverty line; single-parent families... In short, poverty must be really prevented, which requires accompanying measures. Unfortunately, the cumulative measures taken by the government are moving in the wrong direction. They will increase the number of people living in poverty: the index jump, the abolition of the pension bonus, the reduction of the minimum age to apply for an integration allowance, the modification of the part-time occupation regime with the additional income guarantee allowance that will be halved... all your decisions, all your socio-economic measures will lead to an increase in the number of people living in poverty in the coming years. We are, of course, very much in favour of a principled position of gradually increasing the amount of the minimum poverty line allowances. We can only agree. In other words, social integration income and other minimum social benefits must be raised to EUR 1 000 for a single person and EUR 1 600 for a single parent family with two children, for example. However, you will not be able to do this because there are no commitments, no budgets and no timetables. I want to use Mr. Borsus's words, "You're not naive, neither am I." This is indeed a very beautiful petition in principle. We can only go in your direction, but there is no way to achieve this goal. For CPAS, you say that it is the central focus of the fight against poverty at the local level. Of course, but when I read that you want a result-oriented aid policy and that you are talking about quick win, I think that our visions are fundamentally opposite on how to deal with social integration policy. A CPAS is not a company. When we look at the means that will be given to CPAS in 2015, we think that the fears that we have been expressing for several weeks are fully justified. It is important to remember that for CPAS in large cities and small, low-income municipalities, the situation is extremely difficult. The municipalities are now exsangued. To remedy this, however, we can only see reductions: a reduction of 1.7 million euros in subsidies for social and cultural activation – but the disadvantaged are entitled to integrate into society –, a decrease in subsidies for CPAS, a decrease in subsidies for local authorities or subsidies for the Oil Fund. Finally, you tell us that the government has had the courage to assign itself, in its agreement, a numerical objective. Yes, but the real courage is to face up to and provide the means to be allocated to the policies necessary to achieve that goal. I therefore conclude that the fight against poverty is not spared by the dark cuts of your government and is not a priority for you. For people with disabilities, my conclusion is almost the same, Mr. President. We do not have the opportunity to develop the subject, nor is it a priority. There are a few lines in the government agreement, there is a relatively indigent guidance note. Again, there are declarations of good intentions: suppression of the price of labor and the price of love. That's good, but there's no commitment, no budget, no schedule, no vision. There's nothing to report!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u158	Mr. President, Minister, Madam and Mr. Secretaries of State, I will address the Social Affairs, Disability and Social Fraud component. Our social security system, to which we are very attached, must be adequately protected, sustained and financed. Its financing is provided by public levies, which requires rigorous management, without waste. Here, minister, we are sure that you will be attentive to this state of affairs. In this context, the fight against social fraud must be significantly strengthened and a range of measures must be proposed to combat it more effectively. We know it's a fraud that costs social security a lot and weakens our social model. The Cachalot case that we talked about, not long ago, can no longer be repeated. We are facing the challenge of aging, which leads to additional disability benefits, health care and pensions. I am not going to recall the figures, we have already talked about them and they have been widely commented on. You have shown that the government will take on its responsibilities and initiate a series of structural reforms of the labour market and pensions, both to raise the employment rate and to promote job reintegration and to delay effective retirement. Why? These reforms will gradually improve the financial balance of social security by their effects on benefits but also and above all on contribution revenues. No, the government is not antisocial as the opposition often implies. It takes on its responsibilities by curbing the explosion of the overall social security budget deficit: 5.3 billion over the entire legislature. This was in line with what Mr.Di Rupo had done between 2012 and 2014 at a level of 4.927 billion. As we have already mentioned here, but especially for a long time in committee, the government will guarantee 100% well-being instead of 40%. This will raise the level of the lowest social benefits at the poverty line. As the Prime Minister repeated earlier, the allocation of this envelope will be made in consultation with the social partners because, yes, social consultation will be at the heart of this intervention for an amount of EUR 441 million. Indeed, it will be up to her to allocate and allocate these sums. The government will only take over if it fails. At that time, he will insist on the weakest recipients, which in my view is a clear improvement over the automaticity that prevailed so far since the sums were sprinkled over all the allowances, without any distinction. Mr Minister for Employment, the importance you attach to modernising the employment market is fully shared by our group. You have also shown, ma'am, that the flexibilisation of student work must continue as well as the promotion of internships in the course of training. We agree with this desire to establish a social status for young people who are on a traineeship, with an increase in the number of working days from 100 to 200 in the case of...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u159	The Minister of Employment has already left. That was two hours ago. You are not going to have an answer from the minister to your intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u160	I know that. I didn't ask for an answer, sir. If you want to let me go on.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u161	So it's just for yourself, to please you?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u162	Have you decided to be unpleasant? Then shut up. (...): You should have been here earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u163	I didn't leave the room.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u164	Mrs De Coster-Bauchau, you have just said that the wealth envelope will be spent at 100%. For your information, the Court of Auditors has calculated it: the envelope is spent at 84 %. That is also what Mr Jamar and Mr Van Overtveldt say. So it's not 100 %. Not I say that, but the Court of Auditors and two ministers of your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u165	We are also interested, Madam Minister, in your attention to the Horeca, Construction and Trade sector. The support given to enterprises by a reduction in employers' costs, particularly in the first three jobs, is indispensable and likely to stimulate the labour market, while the reduction in the burden on low wages will help to avoid, as far as possible, the pitfalls to employment. We welcome the various measures concerning the reform of disability, particularly those aimed at vocational reintegration. We are seduced by the proposal you made to us in committee. It is really a paradigm shift in terms of incapacity for work, a positive vision that goes in the direction of capacity, potential and well-being. The method of evaluation and reintegration that accompanies this vision is likely to bring our approval and improve the quality of life of users. I will not focus on the prevention of workplace accidents, one of the major components of the well-being policy that each employer will be required, more importantly, to develop and, above all, implement. You talked about the risks to which workers are exposed, risks that will have to be detected and eliminated as completely as possible. We are also satisfied with your stated objective of administrative simplification. We all know that the administrative burden on Belgian companies is too high. They were estimated at EUR 5.13 billion, or 1.37% of GDP. It is therefore positive that the government has set itself the goal of reducing them. However, much remains to be done. Mr Secretary of State, I am speaking to you about social fraud. We can only agree with the government's willingness to use a mix of incentive and dissuasive methods. It is a strategy that we agree with and support that we want to destroy the very value of fraud. We also mentioned the incentives in committee: reducing burdens and modernising the labour market. If this is not the only end of these measures, a more balanced system could only have a beneficial effect on the value of resorting to fraud. However, we must be concerned that certain measures that are being taken in federated entities, such as those taken by the Walloon Region at the level of service titles, may be counterproductive to our efforts at the federal level to limit, for example, the use of undeclared work. As far as deterrence is concerned: smart cash registers as early as 2016, better targeted and relevant controls, supported by more effective methods of consolidating information. In this regard, we believe that the implementation of high-performance data mining and data matching support is essential. I'm finishing with people with disabilities. Madam Secretary of State, disability contributes to the person's vulnerability to employment and social inclusion. You intend to develop a cross-cutting policy. We welcome this commitment to work to coordinate an inclusive policy for persons with disabilities. You mentioned 3% of people with disabilities in the public sector. It is a goal to be achieved. We know that the quota can have a negative effect, but we hope that this will not lead to stigmatization of the difference. We also want to raise the issue of the elimination of job traps, which is called the labour price, since we know that working incomes of a certain amount can pose a problem for people with disabilities. I'll stop here, Mr. President. I would just like to conclude by saying that there are important challenges ahead in terms of social security, in terms of people with disabilities, and we are counting on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u166	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I hope you're all still very attentive, and fresh and cheerful. A number of things have already been said about the section on health care, and I am afraid that sometimes I will repeat myself. I'll do my best. When I read the first sentences of the policy paper in the budget, I was satisfied. I can see Mrs. De Block watching. The general objective set out above is the same as that of sp.a, namely the further development of accessible, qualitative, sustainable and affordable care for all. So much for my positive attitude. After all, the choices made to achieve that objective are unfortunately not ours. First of all, there are the employment, pension and social security measures of your fellow ministers. I know there is nothing you can do about it, but they will not miss their impact in the healthcare sector. Health workers will turn on their wages via an index jump. They will have to work longer and some will perhaps have to look for another place of work if the rationalisation of hospital specializations is translated into a geographical recast. We are waiting together with the many strikers from the healthcare sector last week for what you have in store in that area. What are the government's plans for the health of the average Belgian? You already make a number of promises here and there, for example in relation to mental health care. Furthermore, you promise to pay more attention to rare diseases. However, the only thing we know in concrete terms today is that there are serious savings in progress. You clarified in committee that on 22 December the savings for the RIZIV of EUR 355 million would be submitted to the General Council. This amount should then be translated into concrete measures. The effects of linear savings on the health department remain rather vague even after the discussions in committee. We fear that the proposed savings run counter to your principles, Madam Secretary. The accessibility, quality, sustainability and affordability of care will indeed suffer from linear savings. So we fear that the patient, the central actor in health care, will be the victim of the policy pursued. Let me give you some examples. I have mentioned them before, but I shall repeat them in the light of their importance. You said that the third-payer scheme would be limited to the level of the general practitioner. We have discussed this, so I will not go back to it in detail. I find it extremely disappointing that you do not want to work on a third-payer system for the chronically ill. It concerns a lot of patients, patients with cancer, osteoarthritis, rheumatism, cardiovascular diseases, asthma, epilepsy, diabetes and so on. The group of chronically ill patients includes just over half a million patients. To be honest, we think it is a missed opportunity not to include them in the system, as the previous government intended. Poverty organisations and the Flemish Patient Platform were rightly looking forward to the extension of the system for persons with the status of chronically ill. This group of patients appears to be faced with particularly high costs. Not only do the poorest people seem to have a hard time getting medical costs ahead of them, it is also a problem for many middle-class patients. The result is often that care should be postponed. In combination with protection measures such as the MAF, the third-payer scheme could have eliminated the delay in care in those patients. Unfortunately, that will not happen now. We are also concerned about the persistently high contribution of patients to implants. It's a technical matter, but I'll keep it general. The proportion of patients in this sector is very high and no distinction is made between the rate of benefit and the standard rate, which often leads to expensive interventions for the patients who need implants to continue to function. Madam Secretary, there's still a lot of work ahead of us. In addition to our concern for a number of savings, we have reservations about certain measures. We have already discussed it in committee, but I would nevertheless like a more detailed answer on the commitment to abolish supplements in multi-person rooms of day clinics. Will you harden that already in 2015 or later? What do you do with your commitment to making psychologists affordable again and improving medical care for interned people? This is effectively on paper, but can you put a clearer timing and budget on it or will it remain hollow promises? In 2015 it will be nothing. There is also no budget available for logopedists, sexologists and many others. What will you do with the fees for specialists? You mentioned rather small measures. For a number of specializations, the rate would be even more advantageous. The latter is true, as much as 70% of the consultations will be more expensive. Some brake charges will rise by almost half. Spread over all specialisations, the measure amounts to an overall increase in brake charges of 17% and in 60% of cases for the most vulnerable group. People with poor health will therefore feel these measures. Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of affordability and accessibility of care, I would like to summarize the opinion of sp.a: in our view, the government is doing too little and is doing so too late. With regard to improving the quality, sustainability and organisation of care, we can think with you a long way, but we still have a number of questions. We look forward with great attention to your announcement that the Order of Physicians and Ladies will be reformed. I have already asked that in committee. I am a bit traumatized by it in the past, but many colleagues, including doctors and pharmacists, have a very double feeling about the existence of that organisation. The order itself is asking party to bury the hatchet and to turn it into a modern organization. For all we care, however, the order can simply be completely abolished. The examples of the partiality that I myself experienced as a pharmacist are many. Madam Secretary, we look forward to your specific proposals. When will they come? After all, a reform proposal on the order was already adopted in the Senate in 2007. That was almost ten years ago. We know that this has to do with a tiny problem of detail in a number of Flemish-Brabant municipalities. That is why I repeat the question when you yourself will come up with a solution, not Parliament. With regard to the organisation, I also look at the other announced actions, such as the register for midwifes, which become available around the clock. I am left with a series of questions about the measure whereby mothers who have recently given birth are dismissed from matrimony half a day earlier, a measure which you call purely administrative for this year, but which will mean a full day less stay in the coming years, and which you will better frame through accompanying measures through maternity care and maternity care. Do these accompanying measures cost nothing? For that, I do not find any additional resources in your notes. Or is it simply a bumpy saving of EUR 14 million? I will ask you questions on this subject later in committee. I also have a question about the maintenance of the moratorium on new pharmacies, which you spoke about in committee. In that context, I am actually surprised at the opening of the first Medi-Market in our country. Of that supermarket full of parapharmaceutical products several establishments are planned, including in the big cities. Now it appears that the initiators through separate companies carry real pharmacies with them. For example, the visitor to the medical supermarket can buy medicine via a glass wall in adjacent satellite companies. I think you are being challenged with your moratorium. As a former pharmacist, I am in favour of better control and reduction of drug consumption, as well as personal and correct advice. However, I shudder at commercialised sales through such parapharmaceutical department stores, and I hope you too, Madam Secretary. A speech of only ten minutes at this disgusting hour is not easy with the many questions and suggestions I have. That is why I shall now decide. You are announcing a great deal, but in our view you do not have the budgets to do so. You do what almost every member of the government does. You will be looking at the cat from the tree before 2015, announces a lot of consultation and will start to prune that tree thoroughly from 2016. Madam Secretary, sp.a is concerned on behalf of the patients in our country, because with your first major intervention, you are delaying the decision to extend the third-payer scheme to half a million chronic patients. You will understand that we will not support your healthcare budget, especially for that reason. However, I want to end up as I started and as my temperament and my house doctor like to prescribe it, namely positive. The current government has so far failed to hear the many comments made on the streets and here in Parliament. On the contrary, some of the majority members are still doing a bit of work and I am not talking about you, Madam Secretary of State, who are going to be affected by the harsh measures. Madam Secretary, I do, however, know you as an ambivalent person. I hope that when we draw your attention to the mistakes in policy, your good doctor's heart and your attention to the patient will be drawn to the health managers during the discussion, who, in my view, are the first seeds of marketing in the healthcare sector. I hope you bring the patient back into the center of your focus and improve the quality of life of the care profession. In conclusion, I repeat in a constructive and positive spirit that we will not approve the present budget in the interests of the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u167	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have had a great opportunity to speak in the Committee on Health Policy, Equality, the Disabled and the fight against poverty. But there is one aspect of integration policies, CPAS workers and CPAS users that we have not been able to clarify in committee. I would therefore like to address my speech to Mr Borsus. To introduce my point, it must be noted that the policies of the government under and under the previous legislature are organized in such a way that the person who does not correspond to the profile of the effective worker who will integrate will find himself unemployed; if he or she does not meet a whole set of criteria, he or she will be excluded from his or her rights and will be dependent on an income from integration of the CPAS. A whole series of policies are then set up, which are activation policies. We think that the more we activate, the more jobs we create and allow these people to integrate into society. At the same time, however, some policies say that suitable employment that cannot be refused can be distanced from home by 60 km. However, the budgets of SNCB will be reduced. So there are a lot of inconsistencies in social policies that are being pursued. The only way to get out of this is to organize control policies. That's what you do. Among the control policies, there is everything that makes it possible to have access to and cross-check the data. Mr Borsus, you intend to develop the electronic social report. You also intend to act on the exchange of data between CPAS, the integration of CPAS into the networks of the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité sociale; organize an audit by the administrative inspection services. You intend to solve the problem of respecting professional secrecy to facilitate exchanges between CPAS, between CPAS and other social institutions and between CPAS and the judicial authorities. You tell us that you are going to do this through article 46 of the Code of Criminal Investigation. My speech will be about that. In committee, we asked you about your intention. Is this section 46 of the Code of Criminal Investigation really the tool to use? What are the objectives? Perhaps it is interesting to remember that professional secrecy has three interests: to respect the privacy of the user, to protect social workers and to protect society as a whole so that everyone can find help without his word turning against him. Mr Borsus, I will tell you about the various possibilities that exist to address the subject and the objectives that you say you are pursuing. I'd really like you to tell us what tool you're going to use and what you want to achieve. There is the famous article 46 of the Code of Criminal Investigation (Criminal Procedure) which you have quoted in committee: I must confess that it is a bit curious to quote this article, since it would mean that you are going to add a sexies or different sub-articles to this article 46. Therefore, you will give the King's attorney or labour auditor a power with respect to CPAS which is comparable to that conferred on banks via Article 46quater. At that time, you allow the exchange of data to the judicial authorities but not to the other social security institutions. In addition, you give the Public Prosecutor's Office more power than an investigating judge, who may override the limits of professional secrecy, but when he considers that a worker or an official has failed to respect or defrauded in the performance of his duties. Is that really what you are referring to in your policies? We also know that your firm is working on an amendment to the Organic CPAS Act. In committee, article 458 of the Criminal Code was referred to as perhaps the one you wanted to change, in which case you would skip a taboo that you didn't even dare touch when it came to sexual abuse in the Catholic church. And even then, when it came to saying that social workers, professionals who were aware of serious offences against the integrity of young children, were obliged to report it, this article 458 of the Criminal Code, we dared not touch it. We've settled things differently. Here, a social fraud, a user of the CPAS who would declare his situation in order to try to obtain rights a little superior or complementary, is still not to be put on the same footing. Perhaps it is at the level of the organic law of the CPAS that you want to act, by providing for exceptions to professional secrecy enshrined in articles 36 and 50 of that law. If you amend this law, you may require the exchange of data between social security institutions and the judicial authority. Another possibility would be to legally create the possibility for the CPAS to lodge a complaint. For the time being, it can do so; it can bring facts to the attention of the judiciary, but it cannot provide information on the social situation of the persons in question. If you want to change it, it means that you would like to allow this exchange of data, which would completely change the relationship between the social worker who needs the trust of the person he helps, knowing that, already today, CPAS workers do not grant rights when the person does not meet the conditions. Moreover, when conditions are not met, they have the opportunity to report fraud. There's another lead I've allowed myself to eliminate right away. This is article 29 of the Code of Criminal Investigation, since it would be a question of taking reckless risks, since this article regulates the way in which any constituted authority, any official or any officer in the social security sector who, in the performance of his duties, acquires knowledge of a crime or an offence must react. He must obviously pass this information on to the King's attorney. You told us that the social workers wanted clarification, that that was why you wanted to change through section 46 of the Code of Criminal Investigation. I believe that this does not correspond to the demand of social workers who are actually regularly submitted to requests for the transmission of information, in their view contrary to respect for ethics and professional secrecy. Mr Borsus, I would very much like you to tell us what you want to do, what you want to achieve and how you intend to implement it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u168	Mr President, Madam Minister of Health, ladies and gentlemen, this is an intervention which concerns the health sector in particular. I note that, like many other public services, the government is bleeding. I thought that this practice had been abandoned in the 18th and 19th centuries but obviously here, it is still the case. In the area of health, however, it is particularly serious to pursue this kind of policy. We had a growth standard that was set ten years ago at 4.5%. [[Why 4.5%?]] Because it was necessary to increase the Health budget regularly to take into account aging, the increased costs of technological advances. This growth standard has been reduced to 3 per cent under another government, and here it is reduced to 1.5 per cent. Today, therefore, we will have to save 804 million euros. I think that, in this way, we really play with the health, the lives of people. Madam Minister, we still need to know that today, 900,000 people in Belgium are already delaying health care because it costs too much, because they do not have the financial means. It should be noted that in Europe, out of 31 European countries, Belgium is 20th in the ranking of countries where citizens postpone their health care. I think you're saying that this doesn't have a real impact because we don't need a 4.5% growth standard, but you're still taking a series of savings measures that will directly affect patients. You increase the moderator ticket in ophthalmologists and gynaecologists. You leave mothers who have just given birth with less time in the maternity ward. You're charging for the implants. You delete the paying third party or, in any case, you postpone it. I think there are fourteen economic measures of this kind. Clearly, you make patients pay, with sometimes dramatic consequences for their health and their lives. If savings are really essential, I would suggest other ways, minister. I think, for example, of the fees of some doctors. Those of the PTB, who practice medicine for the people, are content with an average worker's salary. This is not the case for all practitioners. Nephrologists, for example, have incomes of up to €640,000. Radiologists are less greedy: 460,000 euros of gross fees. If savings are needed, should they not be made on that side?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u169	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u170	I don't know... instead of 460,000, they only earn 450,000, right? Another track in this area is inspired by the "kiwi model". You will also tell me that you have taken steps to reduce the impact of multinational drug companies on their competition. Apparently, there again, you would have undertaken something, but it's finally quite vague. You will save 100 million euros in this way, but without saying how. And what about 100 million euros when you know that applying this improved "kiwi model" to a single type of medicine, in this case anticholesterol, it would be possible to save 200 million euros, so twice as much as what you announce. This reminder may allow you to pick up the money where savings really need to be made, rather than on the backs of the patients, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u171	Mr. President, Minister, Ministers, Secretary of State, Secretary of State, Minister of Health, I will address you. The optimism is that the last exchange in committee has been concluded, Madam Minister. The optimism that you have put forward in defending the future health care policy, the optimism that you have put forward to justify the future budget of this department. The optimism you have put forward in support of the measures decided or envisaged. I'll tell you very honestly. I, for my part, remain more nuanced about the future of our health care. Indeed, it is a real austerity budget that is now affecting our health care. A budget of austerity where, certainly, some savings will not be in the right place, where some savings will not be at the right time, where some savings will directly affect patients and professionals in the sector and where savings will not be able to identify the necessary means to even consider new opportunities in terms of technological innovation or reimbursement of care. Minister, by lowering the standard of growth in health care from 3% to 1.5%, you are reducing this department's budget by $1.5 billion in 2015. This decrease is all the more significant if we look forward to 2018: - €3.7 billion. This is for the theoretical purpose, I give it to you. But continue in the numbers because they are revealing. If we look at the budget calculated by INAMI, that is to say, what it predicts as constant political spending, it is still 355 million savings that are planned. Again, looking ahead to 2018, it will be EUR 1.9 billion in structural savings that will affect health care. As the PS group has already had the opportunity to say, health care has already been the subject of significant savings in the past. It's a reality. But the guidelines that guided the choice of these savings were clear. In any event, it was necessary to ensure that care was accessible. In any event, the quality of care had to be guaranteed. In any event, it was necessary to guarantee the financial security of patients. In any event, it was necessary to allow the health care professions to remain attractive. In any event, it was necessary to enable our health care system to remain effective in addressing, among other things, the difficult issue of population ageing. The equation is quite complex. You will agree, but you will also agree that these guidelines have never been crossed in the past. Today, I am less optimistic about the future of our health care. You have confirmed to us that your policy will be part of the continuity of what has been done in previous legislatures, and I welcome this. You have also announced a number of initiatives to prohibit fee supplements in common rooms, in day hospital or, Madam Minister, in the area of patient tariff security. I also welcome this. But when you tell us that 2015 will be a year of transformations for health care and that in parallel, I see the first changes taking place, I don't think you're necessarily going in the right direction. The so-called simplification of user tickets is an eloquent example. Some moderator tickets are down, of course, but there are mostly a lot of moderator tickets on the rise, all to save 33 million euros. Your argument that the increase will be only a few cents in many cases is not necessarily verifiable. You are thus ignoring many already weakened citizens because, as you know, we are not all equal in the face of disease. You are thus ignoring those many citizens for whom a few hundred can make a difference. When we know that 15 per cent of our population lives below the poverty line, that health spending is often concentrated on the most vulnerable people and that 14 per cent of households in Belgium say they have already postponed or renounced the health care they needed, I can only deplore this measure. If I add that this increase in the number of user tickets will come to grips with a whole series of anti-social measures planned by this government, we have reason to be pessimistic. Another example, which does not give rise to a wind of optimism, is the postponement and restriction of the compulsory fee-paying third party. I remind you, the law provided for the compulsory application of the paying third party for all care benefits and the law of 2012 provided for the compulsory application of the paying third party for all the beneficiaries of the increased intervention and for all the beneficiaries of the chronic sick status. It was planned, it was announced, it was expected by many of our citizens. Beyond the postponement of this measure to July 1, 2015, beyond the restriction that you apply to the benefits concerned, it is particularly regrettable that chronic patients, who are particularly affected by the disease, are simply temporarily left out. You decide to deprive these thousands of people exposed to high and recurrent health costs of what could have been a breath of air for them to save 38 million euros. So there are these measures that will directly affect patients, but there are also these other reforms that are supposed to make 2015 a year of transformation for health care, in order to generate savings and reforms that do not fit into what might be termed a temporal logic. Look at the expected reduction in the length of hospitalisation during an ordinary delivery. We are talking about a reduction of half a day in 2015 and one day in 2016 in order to achieve a savings of almost 12 million euros in 2015 and 14 million from 2016. Before taking this step and implementing it very quickly, would it not have been better, in the name of the quality of care for mothers, to provide for a reorganization of post-natal care and an investment in this sector? Would it not have been better, in the name of the budgetary balance of hospital institutions, to include this reform in the broader reform of hospital financing to be carried out over the next few years? Also look at the dialysis reform for low-care patients, which aims to promote dialysis outside the hospital, especially at home, with a view to saving €23 million. Again, before taking this step, would it not have been better, in the name of the budgetary balance of hospital institutions, to include this reform in the broader reform of hospital financing? No, I'm not very optimistic about that. In fact, I think that your optimism is just a frontal optimism. Our health care will indeed be the subject of significant savings in the years to come and you are not solving the equation properly. For now, I see you're touching the patient's wallet. Yes, the optimist, even when he is wrong, is always right! I am an optimist of reason and nature. But in the face of the realities as envisaged, realism imposes on me the language of pessimism. I must not thank the whole assembly for its attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u172	First of all, I would like to say to Mr Senesael that there are still a number of people in this honourable House – at least I – who have listened carefully to him. I will allow myself to give him one or the other information later. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers and Secretaries of State, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I will pay particular attention to our staff and translators, whose task is not always easy, because some of us are obviously talking a little too fast. At this hour, of course, it's complicated. The health care budget for 2015 is set at 23.846 billion euros. It is in the interest of being particularly close to actual spending. It is in this sense that I am totally against what my colleagues Van Hees and Senesael have said. In my view, there is a great deal of concern in understanding the figures advanced. Unfortunately, we have already had this discussion in committee. I therefore regret to have to go back to that, especially since Mrs Fonck had spoken on the issue of 806 million savings. I note that some of his colleagues are taking up this information, which it has been very difficult for me to find. Indeed, it is not correct! This error is primarily due to the fact that one forgets a fundamental element that is the norm of expenditure growth. Mr Van Hees, you said that we could imagine it at such height. Minister, please excuse me, because I may be answering for you. Things are obvious. It is based on figures from previous years. When we look at the evolution of the 2011–12 expenditure growth standard, we see that it is 1.87; for 2012–13, it is 0.9. As a result, in 2012 growth was far from 1.5. In 2014, it was estimated at 2.2, well below 3%. So obviously the numbers don't match. Of course we're getting to a savings of 355 million, and not 806 as you said. You can always make the numbers say what you want. The question is whether they are reliable. The government's will is to move towards transparency and the results achieved in previous years in order to have a rule of conduct that best corresponds to reality. I will make further comments on the subject, since the debate has already taken place in committee. I would just like to point out, for those who would not have understood, that the government's objective is to ensure stability in health care, knowing that the savings will not be substantially different from those that the previous government has put in place – and other governments too, by the way. What is fundamental to understanding is that there is no question, in terms of health care, of revising the policy from A to Z, on the contrary. The programme is ambitious, and no one disputes it. There is a willingness to work, on the one hand, in continuity; here I am thinking of the Chronic Diseases Plan, the eHealth platform, the reinforcement of the front line. On the other hand, there is a desire for change, which will probably disturb a little bit. There are necessary structural reforms, including the financing of hospitals, which go hand in hand with a change in the nomenclature. All this has been clearly explained. At least give the government time to put its measures in place to see, in the long run, what the benefits will be! Of course, we will also work with what might be called wordmarks. This policy needs to be based on measurable elements. There's evidence-based medicine. It is an expression that suits me wonderfully, because it is on the basis of experience that we will be able to put in place a system that holds the road. We are committed to defending a medicine that would be termed a liberal. What is more logical for a member of the MR to defend the interests of the independent character of health professionals. Of course, we encourage the accountability of all health actors. The health care budget, which will always be limited, must be used more effectively and certainly more efficiently. Caregivers must identify practices in their respective fields that are best suited to the needs of patients and conduct continuous evaluation of their activities. Minister, we find these accents in your general policy note. As a Liberal, I imagine you will be keen to apply everything you have said in this note. I would like to return for a moment to the problem of INAMI numbers. These are two legislatures to my knowledge, where the ministers who preceded you have never managed to find a lasting solution. Of course, there is always interaction between different governments. At the level of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, it cannot be said that the ministers responsible for higher education have either facilitated or facilitated the task of the previous government. What is quite exceptional, minister, is that around December 5, you are putting a proposal on the table. Mr. Marcourt was informed and asked for a time limit for reflection. A week later, after consulting with the deans, he felt that your proposal was on the way. Therefore, you decide to release the INAMI numbers. What worries me more about Minister Marcourt's remarks is that he said that he would put in place, as soon as possible, a system to filter out the number of students at the entrance. At the earliest in the academic year 2015-2016 does not mean that it will be done at that time! This is a worrying first thing. The second worrisome thing is the condition of obtaining a clear and usable cadastre. Minister, you will need to be extremely vigilant to ensure that the guarantee you have given to solve the problem is respected by the other party. It's fundamental. I am obviously speaking to the federated entities, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, to implement what it has decided. Secondly, we must not forget the introduction of a reform of the childcare system. We are particularly interested in this. It is well known that in all localities a significant number of problems arise. I know you'll be careful. There is also the will to allow pharmacists to maintain their independence in medical-pharmaceutical consultation. The new funding of hospitals is of course a matter of great concern to us, because we stress the importance of maintaining the principle of honoraria through medical care while reforming, as I said, the nomenclature; an improved nomenclature which will ensure greater legal certainty. In conclusion, if our system is to continue to exist in the current circumstances, important reforms will have to be made for patients, providers and care structures. That is our government's ambition. These reforms will obviously disturb more than one. I didn't have time to talk about mutuals, but probably we'll come back. Minister, it's time to get to work. It is obvious that we will support your action and your project.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u173	Mr President, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, Mr Sleurs, That is a bit strange, because that is not at all what Minister Borsus claims in his policy paper. He literally writes that "the increase in living wages due to new socio-economic reforms" should be taken into account. If the Minister of Social Integration writes that way, I do not think he has a good eye for himself. Does he himself fear that there would be greater problems in terms of poverty than there already are if the government measures were implemented? Is he thinking about the index jump? Is it a question of reducing the income guarantee or is it a question of the benefits which are mentioned in the government's agreement that they will be increased to European poverty, but in breath it is said that they will not be raised just like that. No, additional social benefits that people in poverty will now receive will be explicitly taken into account. One may then wonder whether there will still be any progress. Poverty is feminine, it's said, and it's true. A number of studies show that. One-parent families are at the highest risk of poverty in Belgium, with 34.2% in particular, and there are many more mothers than fathers. Women also depend much more on their husbands' wages than on the other hand, and the majority of them are women. Women are at great risk of poverty. As a result, women are more affected by this government's austerity than men. In fact, women are in a more vulnerable position than men, so a number of measures, which at first sight are equal for both sexes, are not. I would like to give a few examples of this, ladies and gentlemen. The government wants to reduce the income guarantee of the RVA in the case of involuntary part-time work and to halve after two years. Who's the biggest victim of this? Right, women. Almost 80% of the victims are women, because women account for 79 percent of all part-time workers. This is mainly about women working in the service cheque, cleaning and distribution sectors, where involuntary part-time work is widespread and where low wages are paid, which do not allow workers to make ends meet. Let me give you a very specific example. A single mother as head of household earns 800 euros per month and today receives 672 euros through the income guarantee. From 1 January this will only be 604 euros more and after two years only 302 euros more. This is a total loss of 370 euros or 25% of today's wages. I'm not saying that, but that's what the ACV calculated. The fact checker from the editor.be confirmed that. The government promises that the minimum pension will be raised above the poverty line. However, the conditions for obtaining it in the event of an incomplete career will become more stringent. That might make sense again, but who's the first victim of it again? Those are women again, because they are more often involuntary part-time workers or have to interrupt their careers. I can also talk about early retirement, which is based on the current figures and will be far less applicable to women than to men. If, in Flanders, we add to that a number of measures decided by the Flemish Government or envisaged, then we can only come to the conclusion that poverty in this country will certainly not be reduced, but will increase, and that it will mainly affect women and women with children. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, I can only be deeply disappointed in the policy notes and intentions of Secretary of State Sleurs and Minister Borsus. Those notaries, I have already said in committee, read as fine New Year's letters: they are full of good intentions, but they excel in vagueness. That vagueness is actually not surprising. I believe in the goodness of man. You know, I'm inclined to believe that both excellences mean well and that they have sincere plans together with their administration. However, as my colleague Mr van Malderen in the Flemish Parliament has said, there is one Secretary of State for Combating Poverty and the rest are ministers of the spread of poverty. So it will not be granted to them, I fear. Many measures in the coalition agreement and in the policy papers of other ministers go directly against those good intentions. A genuine policy on poverty requires a transversal approach, a vision and an approach shared by the Council of Ministers as a whole. The Secretary of State and Minister responsible must draw that vision, they must take the lead, tie the ends together and put the noses in the same direction. Unfortunately, so many other measures taken by this government show that they do not come to that at all. Both excellences will mop with the crane open, I fear for five years. At the end, those who are barely able to keep their heads above water will have drowned. Colleagues, poverty is not a niche policy. According to research, without social transfers, the risk of poverty in our country would increase to 42%. Social redistribution is the buffer against poverty. We do not see that in the measures announced. A good policy on poverty can distract the level of civilisation of a government and of a country. Well, I'm afraid this government misses that civilization.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u174	Mr President, as Mrs Gerkens has said, we have spent a great many hours in committee. However, I would like to raise a few points. Mrs Detiège, you are asking questions about the saving of 355 million. You say it's about linear savings. I have made it clear that this is only about linear savings for the nephrologists because their rewards are really blowing out. They are also much higher than in the countries around us. There alone, there has been a linear saving. We will also continue to invest 2,188 billion more investments in healthcare by 2018. So we are still talking about a growth standard, not a saving standard. You asked if I would do the supplements for day hospitalization in single rooms in 2015. I told you we would. The third-payer scheme will apply to 1.8 million people with a preferential scheme on 1 July. We will do everything we can to get MyCareNet and the mutualities ready. You know it was at the request of third parties. As far as medical care for interns is concerned, I should like to point out that I have been Minister of Justice for a few months. That wasn't long, but it was long enough to know anything about this. I already had a meeting with the Minister of Justice, Mr Geens, last week. I asked for an inventory because the different people are rather scattered, in different regimes. The aim is to have social security cover part of the costs, of course, with the understanding that I am not going to write a blank cheque. That money must be accounted for and we must have a means of control. You ask when I will submit a proposal on the Order of Medicine. I thought it was clear in committee that it was the Order of Doctors who would come to Parliament with a proposal. You will be able to live in it, because it will be discussed here. Others of your colleagues also quoted the brake money. There are all sorts of conjectures about the outcome of our measures. The brake fee for patients with preferential treatment will almost not change. For patients with global medical records it will fluctuate around 1 euro and for patients without global medical records 1.5 euro. Those are very low brake charges. Some patients will indeed pay more, others will pay less. It is also important that the brake money, together with the fees, is no longer indexed in the coming years. I come to Mr Van Hees' comments. Mr Van Hees, you say that the moderator ticket is not intended for beneficiaries of increased intervention. It's just for them. As I said, the moderator ticket has remained very modest. Sometimes it's changed by a few cents, no more. It was precisely among the nephrologists, who you mentioned and who have quite large fees, that I took a linear step towards a 15% reduction. But you didn't see the budget. Mr Senesael, you say that I am optimistic. Yes, it is true and it is thanks to my optimism that, in the previous government, I worked and found solutions to the homeless crisis and the asylum-seekers crisis. Yes, today I remain optimistic in this great department also presenting many difficulties. As far as the paying third party is concerned, I am not announcing anything. We can announce anything we want, but it must be feasible. The introduction of the reimbursement of the moderator ticket for patients with chronic illness was not feasible. All mutualities have confirmed this because the group is not sufficiently framed. If it were framed, I would undertake to take broader measures with regard to the paying third party. Mr Thiéry, as far as the situation of students is concerned, I have proposed a course after consultation in both Flanders and Wallonia. I have, however, laid down conditions. Mr. Marcourt, obviously had the right to think, which he did for a week. Finally, he accepted by saying that a dynamic cadastre was needed. It's not hard because it's getting done. I also set two conditions. If Mr.Marcourt hesitates today to reduce the number of students in September 2015, he takes a great responsibility. Both students and their parents will be in trouble because no more INAMI numbers will be available and there will be no solution. This track is subject to conditions. I'm used to fulfilling my obligations, but also to demanding that we meet the conditions to avoid an excess of dentistry and medicine students for the future. They have to take their responsibilities. If we don't install a filter in September, we'll have great difficulties. They must know what they're doing!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u175	Mr President, there have been some general comments by Mr Delizée, Mrs Jiroflée and Mrs de Coster which we have also discussed in committee. The opposition has questions about the feasibility of the plans. As I said in committee, I will implement these plans. The transversal is very important. In doing so, we emphasise an overall action plan to combat poverty with specific emphasis on interest groups. There will also be a national action plan on child poverty, in which I must involve the various Communities because the levers are mainly at Community level. I am also thinking of the objectification of maintenance contributions. We are also making this a point of action. The welfare envelopes will be used to increase the minimum benefits. Minister Peeters said the same thing. We are in the process of gradually increasing this to the European minimum limit. There is also a multidimensional problem, in which we are moving towards an inclusive and preventive policy. There was the observation that all noses will have to be in the same direction. They also said I have a lot of good plans. We begin with plans, and we will continue to fight for them. I will also do so in consultation with all the ministers in order to be able to look at the poverty test on all the relevant measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u176	Mr President, my speech will be brief. After all, there has already been a general consideration of social fraud and social dumping. They have also been mentioned earlier in the Work chapter. As you know, the government has already adopted an action plan on social dumping. We are also in the process of making concrete agreements in the Benelux context with the Netherlands and Luxembourg in order to reach a joint agreement on how we want to tackle social dumping and how we can involve other countries. With regard to the introduction of white cash registers, we will continue to follow the government agreement. This project will be rolled out from 2015 and completed in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u177	Mr President, I would like to thank the various speakers on the part which falls within the competence of social integration. I would like to say a few words to confirm, first of all, that we do not have an analysis that reduces the phenomenon of poverty, social exclusion and social difficulties. As Mr Delizée rightly pointed out, this dimension of social difficulty and poverty is multifactorial. It must be analysed in all its dimensions, in all its causalities. When we aim to help people in their journey of social integration, social integration and, in connection with the competent regions, professional integration, it is of course by integrating this whole dimension that we wish to support, support and regulate the action of CPAS legally. Various instruments have been highlighted in the preparation of our policy notes. Let me highlight in particular all the efforts that will be made with regard to the individualised social integration project which we want to expand in order to suit the specific needs, after analysis and support of the social services concerned, of each person who is monitored, cared for and welcomed by the CPAS. There is of course the income of integration itself. You rightly point out that the figures for 2013 bring us to more than 100,000 beneficiaries on average monthly. We have thus reached a significant peak. The employment approach is an approach that we wish to support, considering that the objective is to be able to stabilize, in the context of an income, the integration of the persons concerned into society. We believe that, in this case, we will work in full consultation with the CPAS representative federations. Furthermore, as mentioned, we will follow – and I have a whole series of monitoring figures that I will not mention at this late hour – people who would be referred to the CPAS as a result of the exclusions to which they might be subjected, as a result of the measures taken by the previous government or the measures taken in the context of this government policy statement. We know that these numbers have changed significantly over time. Mr President, I should like to turn to Mrs Gerkens, in a few words, to point out to her that the central point of her speech, which I believe she has done well, is a very sensitive matter. This affects a dimension of professional secrecy, privacy and work, and at the same time it affects a dimension of sharing within a well-marked framework of information available to actors in social intervention. You mentioned various articles. Articles 46 et seq. of the Code of Criminal Investigation or other provisions of the Organic Act, in particular, or article 458. You know that I'm trying to understand every one of my files and enlighten them with the necessary expertise, and have the same kind of consultation. In this case, of course, we need to talk to the colleagues in charge of justice, to consult with the representative federations and also with the workers in the social sector. Before I can tell you which way I propose you, I will obviously take these different steps. The time that has elapsed since the government was set up two months ago has not yet allowed me to take these steps. As soon as they have been, I will come with a proposal that fully integrates all these very specific, very sensitive dimensions that you have rightly mentioned in the rostrum, while, of course, placing me in the context of the implementation of the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u178	As far as disability policy is concerned, Mrs Sleurs, I was only able to fly over it because I was a little victim of the President's ten-minute linear measures. So I could only conclude, without really asking questions. I would like to go back to three points which I believe are essential. Transversality. This was discussed with the issue of poverty reduction. This is obviously the same problem for people with disabilities. I hope, as I said in committee, that you will be able to coordinate with your colleagues in the federal government, to have the references in each strategic cell, to work with your colleagues on the implementation of the rights of the United Nations Convention. This affects many subjects: accessibility, employment, etc. I therefore hope that you will be able to do so, including in the coordination dimension with the federated entities, because there are themes on which we must work together. So I hope that we will follow this up in committee. This is the first point on which I perhaps wanted to hear a commitment from you, to work on these two levels: the federal and the inter-federal. The 1987 Act. It is true that there has been an evolution between your guidance note, which did not mention it, and your general policy note, where you speak about it. We therefore feel a certain willingness to review this law, which is more than 25 years old, which is totally outdated, contradictory to the United Nations Convention, after having read the opinions of the sector, not to mention the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities, which you do not mention much in your note either. The problem of close caregivers. We didn't really get a very positive answer. We passed a law, a legal framework. We need to move on. And there are levers in the federal government, regardless of what the Regions can do to help families facing people who are dependent. The PS Group will pay attention to these three elements: the cross-cutting nature, the revision of the law on allowances - I am not going into the details of what to do - and the status of close caregivers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u179	Mr President, I would have liked to have heard from the Secretary of State. Mr Secretary of State, you say that, in consultation with all the representative organisations of the OMCW, you will look at how things are evolving. The question is to what extent the Minister is committed to agreeing on an additional allocation of the OCMW for the additional people who will call on the OCMW from 1 January. What can these agreements entail?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u180	Mr. Chairman, as a follow-up to what had been accomplished with Maggie De Block, an agreement was reached to control the consequences for the CPAS of the arrival of persons excluded under either the provisions of the previous government or the additional measures taken by ours. They potentially concern people without a diploma and those who complete their studies after 25 years. I have tentative numerical projections for these two groups. The figures have evolved quite strongly over time, on the one hand, because an adaptation of the legal provisions took place at the end of the previous legislature and, on the other, because, according to the sources, the estimates differed considerably. However, at this stage, I have received the latest estimates from the ONEM for both groups. Mr President, I must remain cautious in the final communication of the figures. Indeed, I have the presumption that they will continue to evolve from the beginning of 2015. As soon as I have obtained the first accurate photographs of the figures – because it is important for the people concerned, for the CPAS and for the federal budget – I propose to distribute them to the parliamentarians who have questioned me in recent weeks, sometimes in committee or here in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u181	I fully agree with the estimates. So there's no problem. The question is, of course, that if there are more costs for the OCMW and there are more people coming to the OCMW because of this measure, in other words that the federal government's commitment comes, the bill will not be passed on to the local government. Gebeurt dat?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u182	Mr President, I think I have answered. I confirm that there is a commitment by the federal government to the provisions that will apply under this Parliament to cover the additional costs of the provisions that would lead to the exclusion of a number of persons involved. I have precise figures. I do not want to prolong the debate, but if anyone wishes, I have taken all my updated figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u183	Mr President, I would like to ask the minister whether it is or not. Compared to those who will be sanctioned tomorrow and go to seek assistance from the CPAS, will the federal government bear the additional costs incurred by CPAS. The answer is simple, yes or no.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u184	There's really a separation. I have just answered the question twice!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u185	What is your answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u186	Excuse me, but I'm still available for Parliament. So I would like to repeat...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u187	If you say "yes" or "no", it's fine!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u188	Excuse me, so far, I fully respect your freedom of question! Allow me to have my freedom of reply, even as it was three or five minutes ago. In early 2015 or later, two groups of people will be attending CPAS. On the one hand, there are those excluded according to the provisions of the Di Rupo government. We have a tentative estimate of their numbers that was prepared by the ONEM. Following on from what was done under the previous government, at the initiative of Maggie De Block, there is a commitment to take over the government for the additional costs generated. In addition, there is a group of persons potentially affected by the Government's actions, which are not yet being taken and which will be subject to social consultation. For these additional individuals, there is the same commitment in the continuation of what has been done previously.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u189	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u190	Mrs Onkelinx, if you wish to formulate my answer, I can formulate your question!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u191	The majority is very little present. We still assume the continuity of the debate. If, from time to time, to a specific question, I could be answered by yes or no rather than by circumvolution for a quarter of an hour, it would be respect for the parliamentarians who are present!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u192	I have been of total precision, on questions of this nature, with all the nuances, the details of the situations. To reproach me for not answering yes or no in such matters... I am not here to answer yes or no to questions that require nuanced answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u193	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u194	Mr President, I propose that from now on the ministers should say no more than yes or no. We will therefore be happy with Mrs Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u195	Mr President, I understood Mr Borsus's answer. I'd just like a clarification. Minister, are you talking about the extra cost or the cost? These are two different things. When you talk about extra costs, that is what would weigh in addition to a budget linked to the exclusion of the unemployed as practised by the Di Rupo government. You mention the additional cost of excluding new categories of unemployed people who are excluded by your own measures. What do you take care of? The differential or the whole? If this is all, you say that the cost of excluding the unemployed under Di Rupo and Charles Michel is borne by the federal government. I'd like to have an explanation because it's not the same thing. These are two different words that have different meanings from a financial point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u196	I would like to respond to Mrs Onkelinx's remark. Mrs Onkelinx, so far we have had calm debates about what we have known before. However, I have a concern when you say that you are present to ensure the continuation of the discussions. I believe that there is always a majority, still in numbers compared to the opposition. In addition, you may be able to speak for your group but do not speak on behalf of groups of which no members are present!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u197	Mr President, I would like to call for the Social Affairs and Health section to be discussed first in the debate rather than always at an ungrateful nightly hour. Perhaps this hour will fit in with the absurdity of the debates that have taken place here. I just want to highlight the highlights. Above all, it was said here that the savings are being made on the patient's hood and that the patient has to pay, while a chronically ill person in our country pays up to EUR 350 and everything that is above that is reimbursed by society. So he pays a fraction of the real cost. People with an increased allowance pay 1 euro at the GP and at the specialist 3 euro. How can we then talk about a possible postponement of care? A further striking contradiction in the debates was that concerns were expressed on the one hand regarding promoting home dialysis, which would reduce hospital income, while on the other hand calling for the abolition of supplements in multi-person rooms in day hospitals. This seems to me to be a contradiction in terms. What defyed all imagination was that PTB-GO! Suddenly came up with the kiwi model. Just after they thought they could extract EUR 8.5 billion from the rich with a magic wand, they now think that this kiwi model is the solution. This is totally absurd. There was also talk of concern. My generation is worried about a public debt of almost EUR 400 billion. It reassures me that our government now wants to do something about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u198	Mrs. Van Camp, you're still young. Congratulations on being here. However, I must tell you that you are not yet aware of a number of issues. I don't blame you for that, by the way. If you are so contemptuous about the fact that a number of people are having a hard time paying a doctor, I suggest you take a look around Belgium and Flanders. All you have to do is read the Yearbook on Poverty and Social Exclusion. There are people today who postpone visiting the doctor week after week, not only for themselves but even for their children, because they can't afford it. And yes, we are proud to intervene. It's called solidarity, Mrs Van Camp. For some, the additional costs, which are now being asked, come up again and are too much. We don't want that. That is what we want to avoid in the future. Mrs Van Camp, instead of shaking it, it would be good if you could look at those people and take them into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u199	To get involved, I can invite you to La Louvière, where we have a medical home, or Marcinelle. In particular, you will see patients who can treat themselves free of charge at the People's Medicine Centre, but who do not have the money to buy the medicines. We can make a little visit together. You will see people in a rather difficult situation. If you deny the statistics that 900,000 people are postponing care for financial reasons, come with other figures that say it doesn't exist. But this phenomenon is getting worse. That is why touching on the standard of health care growth is a real problem. It is said that the needs in previous years were not as important as they were said. Clearly, if the health care envelope is reduced from year to year, then the need is not so high. But are the expenses sufficient in relation to the needs? I'm finishing with the Kiwi model. This is the application of the liberal market principle: the market is being played out. Why wouldn't it be so good for pharmaceutical companies? I'm speaking to the Liberals. They only dream of the market. And as soon as we want to apply it, they refuse it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u200	Minister, from your answer, I can conclude that the reference in your note to section 46 of the Criminal Code procedure is no longer included. You're going to consult. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u201	The two names are apparently possible. In any case, in your note, you refer to article 46 of the procedure of the Criminal Code. So it can be considered frozen. I will allow myself in committee to ask you what are the objectives that you are pursuing through this desire to change professional secrecy with a view to controlling and transmitting information.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u202	I said I was going to consult widely, but I didn't say "freeze". I will implement the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing the chapter on pensions. I see two remaining speakers on the list. Mr De Roover has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u204	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you all for showing me the courage to remain special to me. It's a pleasure for you. The street protest of the past few weeks has really upset the moods, both in one direction and in the other. In neighbouring countries, too, many are reluctant to respond to announced changes. Even the left-wing Italian government is bumping into a wide-ranging syndical displeasure. We must understand that change always brings uncertainty. Man doesn't like that by nature. The condition humaine is what she is. We must not remain deaf to the concerns of the so-called village street. However, if we hear between the rules saying that the government has to align its policy with the demands of the street protest, then we in our institution must do everything we can. Here in this house and nowhere else is the government confirmed in its policy, or flogged back. We are the representatives of the only sovereign in this country: the electorate. We must not deviate from that basic principle of democracy. The announcement of a new policy always creates uncertainty. Moreover, some of the measures still need to be implemented and not all of them can be quantified in detail at the moment, certainly not in the pension file. That in itself is a good reason for asking the government to provide as much clarity as possible as soon as possible. It is a major step forward in dealing with the budget and the programme law that follows. People's sincere concerns about longer work and about the fair sharing of burdens must be taken seriously. We hear from strikers the question of what the government is doing. That question deserves a clear answer. So let us make it clear what the government is doing, because strangely enough this has happened too little in the file on pensions. The Pension Reform Committee 2040 delivered an impressive document. In this we read literally: "If policies are unchanged, the pension system will not be financially sustainable in the long term. It is not in line with developments in society and there are problems of social quality." This clearly outlines the challenge. What's the government doing? The government intervenes to save our pensions, nothing more and nothing less. Some basic data make it clear to everyone what we stand for today. In the course of the discussion it has already been mentioned here and there, pensions now cost almost 11% of our gross domestic product. In 2060 that share is likely to grow to 16%. That is a huge increase, with one and a half billion a year at current prices. It means that, during that period, we will have to withdraw some 5% extra of all economically created value from other spending posts. In the 60-64 age group, 18% of Belgians now work. In the OECD countries, that is 42%. In the Netherlands even 47 %. The exit age at which we hang our workplun on the willows is 59 years. In the OECD countries it is 64 years, 5 years later. In 1970 we retired on average at 64 years and life expectancy was 71 years. This amounts to an average pension of 6.8 years. Today the average pension, fortunately, is 22 years. In addition, there are fewer and fewer active people per pensioner, so that the growing burden is constantly reduced. Anyone who, in these circumstances, gives the impression that no effort must be made by everyone or that everything can remain the same is guilty of irresponsible polish. After all, what do these figures mean for people? With unchanged policies, we will have to increase wages taxes by 13% by 2040 or we will have to reduce pensions by a third. The bill has to be paid. That basic truth is too much to hide under false slogans. Minister, I am very pleased that the current government does not accept this choice between, on the one hand, a huge tax increase or, on the other hand, a severe reduction in pension amounts. We do not want to make that choice between pestilence and cholera. We want to pursue a policy that will in a few years' time guarantee a significant pension for all those entitled to it. This policy is about maintaining a monument to our social welfare state. That is basically the social core of that policy, whatever it may be claimed about it. Moreover, the current government is developing a pension policy which is innovative in several areas. We work in the long term and move our horizons beyond the next election day, which is absolutely new. We are building a point system that will take structural account of all the factors determining the affordability of the system. We continue to work, albeit with our own political choices, on a solid scientific basis and have the process also scientifically supervised. It is also important that the government chooses a gradual path, giving us ten years to prepare the labour market for a new culture of work, in which longer working life becomes truly feasible. In fact, there is a great challenge for the social partners. We are therefore counting on their positive input in this respect. The government is criticised for not sharing the pension burden in a balanced way. Critics see all the benefits in the jackpot, which one does not like to call the rich tax without any sense of drama. Of course, it makes sense to look for a more equitable and economically more effective taxation, as the N-VA has long advocated for clarity. In this respect, the previous governments, which were the toughest critics of today, did not leave any good legacy. There's a lot of holes in the cheese to close. Which of the tax laws and agreements that encourage too much tax creativity among big businessmen have been introduced by the government? Asking the question is answering them. The opposition, which has a lot of butter on its head in this respect, is not even too bad to be critical of the consequences of their own government work in the past; il faut le faire. However, let us beware of demagogy. We have seen enough examples of this in recent weeks. We must have honesty, including in the financing of the pension debate, in order to admit that the search for a tax that goes beyond the formulation of noble thoughts is very difficult. Whether we like it or not, capital is mobile. It cannot be the intention to re-establish the middle class by means of a measure as well-meaning as poorly implemented. In this too, the road to hell is paved with good intentions. As our group has already said, a good tax shift would fit into the N-VA programme, which means one that can reduce the burden on labour. We are asking for this. For the sake of the poor intellectors, tax shift means in Dutch tax shift. If the search for a workable and just tax shift succeeds, the proceeds go completely towards reducing other taxes, in particular those on labour. This means that the proceeds of such a tax shift cannot be used to cover the rising and eventually suffocating pension account. They'll make it a tax increase. The tax shift will then become a tax lift and we say quite clearly: not with us. It would be madness to do so in the present circumstances. This means that the efforts to save our pension will continue to exist, either tax-shift or no tax-shift. The government's project on pensions offers the prospect that we will be able to pay good pensions tomorrow in a fair and just way divided between the generations. Once a politician from a party who is now in the opposition inventing hot water, said that he knew what had to happen, but that he would not be re-elected. He failed to do what had to be done, and we will do it today. By the way, it was the same politician who stated in the media in 2013 that young people should realize that they will not retire for 65 years. Well, we're doing what he announced then. I decide. Like that politician, we know what needs to be done and we are doing it. If we do not do that today, Minister, our pension will be shriveled. Let us not forget that tomorrow people will also be entitled to our solidarity. That's what the majority are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u205	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is late, but the subject of pensions deserves special attention at any time. Indeed, among the reasons for the social challenge, pension reform is prominent. When it comes to pensions, it's time to tell people the truth. Contrary to what the government says, current pensioners will actually lose purchasing power. I will mention, among other things, index jumps, partial compensation by the welfare envelope, non-indexing of tax cuts... It's a theme. Another theme: you will tighten access to the pension. Increase in legal age, increase in age and career conditions for early retirement for most workers today and not only for 10%. You will reduce the amount of future pensions, notably by abolishing the pension bonus as early as 2015. In this regard, there are many questions about this deletion. The abolition will have a weak budgetary impact: nothing in 2015, you confirmed it in committee, and, if we refer to the budget table, just over 16 million by 2018. So a marginal amount in relation to the 36 billion of the budget devoted to the payment of pensions. This pension bonus was one of the few incentives to increase the employment rate of seniors. It offered a sometimes considerable pension supplement, especially for workers with low pensions. And it's about those too. I do not go back to the examples that we have had the opportunity to discuss together in committee. You said you wanted to delete it because it was not effective, based on a study prior to the last reform. I would be tempted to say that if it were not effective enough, it would be better to improve it than to delete it. Next to this counter-productive, anti-social suppression, you take other measures. You authorize the total accumulation after 65 years of income from work with that from pension. It is an extended complementary freedom that may seem attractive at first glance, but I think it has its limits and carries risks, including the risk of curbing the renewal of generations. It also calls into question the principle of pension, which is a replacement income. However, some people who continue to have a significant income could still take this replacement income as well. This is somewhat inconsistent with the principle of the first pillar pension. In fact, isn't this going to be particularly relevant to the already affluent occupational categories of the population? Another regression concerns the gradual abolition from 2016 of the diploma enhancement for the right to pension in the public sector. This is a frontal attack on public services, pensions in the public sector, and I could mention several of those included in your government statement. In addition, I have already spoken in committee, particularly during the debate on your guidance note, about the fact that your government does not foresee anything to encourage more work, other than unilateral legal taxation. It's an obligation. There is no incentive to extend if you have the physical ability to do so. In the same spirit, the tightening of credit-time helps to make it more difficult to reconcile private and professional life, while it can help to work longer. Minister, we are not advocating immobilism. I have already had the opportunity to say so, Mrs Onkelinx too, but we are taking another path. Other ways are possible. For example, at the budgetary level, a more significant contribution from other sources of funding than work, as the committee of experts to which you often refer pointed out. This is something that I think is desirable. At the methodological level too, there is a need for genuine consultation. It is also a suggested element, a pillar of the reform mentioned by the Committee of Experts. Reform in this sector must be based on a broad social consensus. In this respect, in terms of consultation and consensus, I think that the Group of Ten should meet in a few hours on Thursday morning and discuss elements related to the single status, but I also think that there are elements related to the end of the career. Do you have any information about what might be part of the agreement at the Group of Ten level? There are elements that appear in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u206	Here's a start. We deserved it! And so, Minister, take this approach of a broad consensus on all aspects of reform, avoid passing on some and leaving consultation for others tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u207	Very quickly, Mr Bacquelaine, my group tabled a resolution, of which I am the author, which aims to adopt a comprehensive reading of our pension system. As part of this reform, I invite you to look at the specific situation of women, linked to their particular profile in the labour market, their careers being incomplete and less stable. I would like to hear from you today, but I also invite you to look at the specific nature of the issue of women's pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u208	Mr De Roover, I share your opinion on the situation of pensions in our country. Due to the situation, further reforms are inevitable and urgent to ensure the social and financial sustainability of our pensions. Failure to act would be irresponsible and would ultimately lead to a reduction in pensions which would put a large number of older people into poverty. We cannot allow that. To be very clear, all indicators, whatever they may be, indicate the need for everyone to work a little longer in this country. In the industrialized world, we are the country where we leave the labour market as soon as possible. We must therefore ensure that we draw all age markers upwards. That is why we are continuing the reform of the previous government with regard to early pensions and we are extending the statutory pension age to 67 years. This is a recommendation of all agencies, be it Europe, the OECD, the IMF. All the economists who look at the question say that it is necessary, that this is what needs to be done. Mr Daerden, that obviously does not mean that everyone is going to work until the age of 67, I have given you the figures. We are at 6.11% for employees who actually work up to 65 years of age. We need to be clear about that, otherwise we are talking about figures that refer to completely different considerations and that is not clear to the debate. Many people take their pension at age 65 today, more than 10%. But among those who take their pension, there are very few who work when they take it. That is the problem today. Some are either unemployed, unable to work or in another system. They are no longer in the system of actual work. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u209	We'll probably be in the same proportions, but that's going to make sure everyone gets pulled up. You know that as we implement the reform of the legal pension age in 2030, there will be a dramatic shortage of labour in our country, all indicators prove this. All indicators show that from 2030 to 2035, we will be in a shortage of labour. Doing nothing is a monstrous mistake because it goes against reality. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u210	To make it seem that by lowering the legal age of the pension to 67, we are going to cause unemployment for young people, as I sometimes hear, is a total aberration! It has been pointed out to me on several occasions in committee. That's not true! Indeed, the analysis of demographic curves tells us that we are going to find ourselves in a situation where we will need more labour. Everyone will have to work a little longer. That is the purpose of the reforms that we are embarking on today, which we are pursuing in a number of situations. I even think it's necessary. As Mr. De Roover, it would be irresponsible not to do anything today when we consider all the encrypted elements. With regard to the pension bonus, Mr Daerden, I repeat Mr Gilkinet's quote in the Social Affairs Committee: "The pension bonus benefits above all those who do not need it".
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u211	I didn't know she'd become your reference!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u212	I always take references. I don't have a priori. From time to time, I also quote you, that is not to say a little! The interesting references, I write them down! Beyond that, it is the strict truth. Mrs Onkelinx, I would point out to you that you and your government have decided to divide the pension bonus under the previous government by two. You went from 2 euros to 1.5 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u213	We have changed the terms of reference. Following an analysis, we were asked to modify the pension bonus to make it more effective. The reform began about a year ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u214	The pension bonus is particularly effective. No one's taking it! The evidence is that it represents 18 million out of 36 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u215	Wasn't he a Liberal minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u216	And then it was done with your consent! You yourself have reduced the pension bonus. Not only the amount, but also the accessibility to this pension bonus. Because you rightly considered that the measure was a failure.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u217	Say "we" instead. The MR was in the government!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u218	I wasn't a minister. You good!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u219	Minister, you have the floor. Be brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u220	The pension bonus is a failure. Everyone recognizes him. He has not been able to extend the careers. Why? You know that. For people who have too small pensions and who have to wait one year after the early retirement age (for example, in 2018, 63 years for early retirement, so you'll have to wait until you're 64 to apply for the pension bonus), people who sometimes have 42, 43 or even 44 years of career, that's not feasible. Who does this measure concern? Those who have trades that are certainly not heavy trades. Is it really social to ask workers who carry loads all day long or surface technicians who work all day to take a pension bonus at 64, after 43 or 44 years of career? I don't think so. Besides, they don't take it because they don't have the physical ability to take it. That is obviously justified. This is the whole debate on heavy trades. Finally, who takes the pension bonus? It's been calculated. These are all beneficiaries of a pension of more than EUR 2 000 per month. This is the pension bonus today! So let's stop saying it's a social measure! That's not true, and you know it! You have to be reasonable. In fact, Mr Gilkinet had the honesty to recognize him!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u221	How much will teachers lose?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u222	You know very well that the system is different for teachers. Very few of them take the pension bonus.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u223	Some of them take it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u224	I have just said that the pension bonus amounts to EUR 18 million all inclusive of a budget of EUR 36 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u225	Then why?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u226	That's why we're deleting it. You've cut it half off; we're completely removing it. That's the truth. With regard to authorized work, Mr Daerden, this is obviously an extremely sensitive progress to which we were very committed. First of all, it values the notion of work and, everything that values this notion, I find it interesting. People who have contributed their entire lives to receive their pension are entitled to receive it, I find. And if they want to continue working and paying taxes, good for everyone! This generates economic activity and creates added value in our society. So it's highly positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u227	But who's going to enjoy it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u228	Believe me, it's a lot more interesting for someone who's 63 years old and has 45 years of career...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u229	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u230	Listen to me, Mrs. Onkelinx! Mr. President, I'm done.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u231	I ask you to continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u232	Yeah, but ask Mrs. Onkelinx to shut up, then.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u233	I ask you to continue, otherwise we can stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u234	All right. As you like the examples, here's one: if someone who is 63 years old and 45 years old has the opportunity to work a little bit, not much, with a cumulation permission, it will be much more interesting for him than the pension bonus. The notion of cumulation of work with a pension is a question of freedom, of free choice. It's important. It's a concept that escapes you, but for us freedom... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u235	What's the pension bonus? I think we need to find systems that are a little more interesting than what didn't work and that was a real failure. Work longer, yes, but with adaptations. Mr. Daerden is right. Opportunities are needed to move from the period of activity to the rest period in a flexible and flexible manner, with this concept of partial pension, which is one of the flagship and major elements of the general pension policy note. Creating a partial pension in our country is an idea of the Pension Reform Commission. I met the Commission very recently and asked it to work on this concept. It seems to me essential to organise a flexible transition from the period of activity to the period of work. As far as time credit is concerned, you forget to mention, Mr. Daerden, the fact that we give an additional 12 months to the existing 36 months for time credits that bring real social added value: caring for children up to 8 years, caring for sick parents, caring for palliative care. The credit-time period is increased from 36 to 48 months. That is the reality of the government agreement. Finally, as far as social consultation is concerned, we are obviously paying particular attention to it. We will establish the National Pension Committee at the beginning of the year. It is within this framework that all measures and modalities will be discussed. But it is true that the main principles, the major decisions taken at the level of the government agreement, are the responsibility of the policy. In order to organise the arrangements, to organise a number of adaptations, social consultation will have to do so. The National Pension Committee will be composed of both the Government, the federated entities and the social partners. This will enable the necessary social consultation to be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u236	Mr Bacquelaine, at 5:39 a.m., you said something very right. You said, "In 2030, we'll be in a labour shortage." You have a long-term vision somewhere that impresses me, but it is true that in some European employers' plans, not just Belgians, there is a great deal of fear. The great fear of employers would be that there would be no more unemployment. Indeed, more unemployment means upward pressure on wages. This clearly informs the government's policy of raising the pension age. This is not a pension problem but a wage problem, aimed at allowing people to compete in the labour market in order to be able to exert downward pressure on wages. I would therefore like to thank you, Mr Bacquelaine, for having revealed this to us at 5:39 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u237	Mr President, of course we are not going to repeat the debate in the reply because we will still often have an opportunity to exchange views. I just want to react on two or three elements. "Doing nothing would be irresponsible." That's exactly what they say. They say we don't need immobilism. We fully agree on this point. There is, however, a major divergence. It's because you want to use restraint, increase pension rights. We need as many people as possible to work a little more. I'm not saying everyone. When I say as much as I can, it's all those who have the ability to do it. Hence the need to have incentives to work longer, such as career development and business conditions in order to stay longer and continue to work. I believe that this is the way to work, through incentives and end-of-career arrangements. And if, as you see it, by 2030 there was a shortage of labour, I think that both seniors and young people will work and there will be an increase in the employment rate in the different age groups. It is also in this way that we can settle the financing of pensions. If this comes naturally, it is even better, but I think it should be encouraged above all.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, let's discuss the Justice chapter. We'll start with Mrs. Özen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u239	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Department of Justice is going wrong. The judiciary, the judiciary, the prison world, the lawyers who practise legal aid, and I pass by: all the players in the judicial world are unhappy and extremely worried. In view of the budget allocated to them, I believe that this will not improve in the years to come. As you know, Justice is already facing a backlog of payments valued at 182.9 million euros as at 31 December 2014. The Court of Auditors stresses that the appropriations allocated in this budget will not make it possible to absorb it. You are obliged, Minister, to announce to us 124 million euros of additional savings. You have in committee, Mr.Minister, from the outset listed the posts that were to be cut. You started by telling us what was wrong: non-replacements, losses in different sectors, the catastrophic situation with which you were obliged, on balance, to compose. In a way, you made an honourable fine, as if you were apologizing somewhere, minister, for not obtaining a budget exception for the third power. Of course, the judiciary is trying both well and badly to function, and it is also known, under conditions that are truly deplorable and with a quality of public service that is deteriorating every day. It is obviously the citizen, the justiciable, who suffers the consequences. In concrete terms, Minister, how are you going to ensure the survival of this third power? How will you ensure the maintenance of a quality public service, which is essential to the public? I will enumerate with you some points that deserve to be noted. I assure you, I won't be long. Anyway, there are so many worries that we could take hours to discuss the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u240	With regard to judges and judicial staff, the Court of Auditors notes that there is a month's lack of pay for appointed judges. Earlier, to my surprise, I heard Minister Jamar say that it was totally wrong, that the Court of Auditors was wrong, and finally, the judges will be well paid. Either the Court of Auditors is doing its job badly and then it is an institution to which we cannot trust, or Mr Ducrame will say that it is the PS who is behind the Court of Auditors and that he phagocys the institution to make it say what it wants. In short, there is a cacophony and we would like to get clear answers. In addition, no provision is made for commitments related to judicial BHV. The SPF Justice noted that the additional staff cost for judicial BHV was EUR 4.5 million. We have to find them! All judges complain about the cruel shortage of staff and that it is difficult for them to perform their duties and to do justice in these conditions. In recent weeks, you will also have noticed that transplants have been forced to close their doors in the afternoons in order to be able to carry out all their tasks, which, paradoxically, the first is to ensure that the transplant is accessible to the public. As far as prison officers are concerned, the staff budget deficit amounts to €6 million and no new appropriations are foreseen for the staff of the closed centre in Tongres. For Tilburg, the budget has been cut, even though I know that you have found a solution for 550 to 650 prisoners, but there are ten prisoners for whom nothing is yet planned, except that they will be placed in the new prisons which are waiting for new officers. It is also known that the new prisons will not provide a solution to the overcrowded prison population, which is truly striking in Belgium. I come back to the weak reintegration measures that are being called into question as the gratuity credit for inmates who are engaged in the maintenance of premises, equipment and furniture, as well as domestic work, will be reduced. To accomplish these tasks, you will have to call on outsiders. On the one hand, we will have credit cuts that ultimately lead to an increase in costs. The calculation is therefore not excellent. However, as you said, Minister, your government agreement says that the fight against recidivism is a priority, but unfortunately this is not reflected in budgetary terms. However, it is known that international legislation and jurisprudence are clear. The purpose of the prison sentence is, of course, to protect society but not to exclude prisoners from society. Locking up inmates with no prospect of re-integration is a little crazy. These people will end up outside with no more pace and will remain in completely inhuman and degrading conditions of detention. They will then be told that they must be reintegrated into society without any baggage with a hole in the CV during their detention. On the way out, good luck! As you said yourself in your general policy note, the fight against recidivism requires the reintegration of persons in detention. But, I repeat, the budgets for doing so are falling sharply. Budgets for food and maintenance of detainees are also reduced while the Court of Auditors reports a backlog of €3.6 million. The same applies to the running costs of prisons since the backlog is estimated at 15.7 million euros and the current budget is reduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u241	The same applies to the medical service in prisons and the reduced medical costs for prisoners and internees. There is no need to recall the current underfunding of medical and psychological care. I would also like to refer you to the various convictions which the Belgian State has incurred. Belgium is very often condemned by the European Court of Human Rights. It also represents a budget. I come back to the invoices that remain unpaid since the deficit is estimated at 88.2 million euros for 2014. The appropriation entered for the 2015 budget year is less than the estimated backlog at the end of 2014. And that is not to mention the coming into force of new laws that will inevitably increase spending, such as on internment. We could also talk about legal aid, but our group leader reminded us, you also know that there is a risk of reducing the benefits for lawyers who defend the most vulnerable. Lawyers practising legal aid are the only citizens who must systematically tolerate a reduction in their salary and remuneration from year to year. It is not said enough, but there is also a impoverishment of this function which, as a corollary, also risks to lead a two-speed justice with people who will have the means to have good lawyers and to defend their interests and others who may wait to have their head under water to appeal to pro deo lawyers or others. Minister, your budget, as you announced, does not surprise me. These are really linear budget cuts, contrary to what Mr Michel said, to my surprise, this afternoon, to take account of the specificities of certain departments such as Justice. He says they're not linear cuts. Mr. Michel also said that the government would assume its responsibilities to honour its payments. However, when I asked you the question in committee, minister, you had the sincerity to answer that it was not possible to honour these debts. Personally, it is not my vision of a responsible State that bears its debts. When the head of your government says that he is joining the action, I ask you to take the means of your ambitions because you will simply not achieve the objectives set. The only positive thing, a glimmer of hope, is the plan of savings and spreads perhaps better fixed. We're waiting for him in February. Minister, Christmas is coming, and it is a miracle you need!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u242	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is rare for me to speak to the Minister of Justice at 6:04 a.m. The last time we spoke in the morning, I was at Liège-Guillemins station and you were probably in Brussels but it was a little later, 7:30 in the morning. Before I begin my presentation, I would like to greet one of the interpreters of the Chamber. I heard earlier that she'd be retired tomorrow. Congratulations, ma'am, and thank you for enlightening us in the language that is not necessarily ours. Mr Minister, you have had the honesty in the Committee on Justice to present a true budget. You didn't hide the numbers. You didn't tell a story that would be difficult to assume. It is true that it was difficult to hear all this in committee. We heard each of the political parties take – and that was very good – their share of responsibility, since this is not new, Justice has been in trouble for many years. The Judicial Union believes that for twenty years, Justice has been a perditional boat. The observation is there. Then you have to try to find solutions. It is all the more difficult to assume that, behind this, budgetary restrictions have been announced in a very precise way. After recognizing their collective responsibility, we must try to bring solutions, each at our level, that are not miraculous, that will be in the long run to try to make justice better. I think it's a wish that's shared by all of us. We look forward to the two very concrete proposals that you have announced with a delay of two months. The first thing is your potpourri, that is, the revision of a whole series of procedures. My group will be available to make some proposals for perhaps speeding up some procedures, correcting some of the provisions that make it possible for justice to lag behind, not out of bad will, but simply because the texts make things a little more complicated. The second is a comprehensive Justice Plan, whose objective is also to be able to organize and/or sustain savings. We have some ideas to submit to you, and perhaps these will have a positive effect on the finances and means of justice. Minister, we have the will to trust you because the line is clear, because you do not hide the difficulties and because you have the will, with the government as a whole, to try to restore confidence in justice. You said it, and it was very important for us: we must renew the positive dialogue with the judges and the justice actors to ensure that together we can work towards an improvement of the system. It is true that for too long it was felt that politics and justice were not talking enough. I won't be very long, don't worry, it's 6:07. It's gonna be quick, I assure you. On the other hand, a budget is a year, even though it is true that there will be budgetary years along the way. It is thought that one year still allows us to set very concrete milestones. This will allow us to see if any significant actions have been taken. In a year's time, I'll have the same questions for you, and we can see if we've been able to make progress on some things. Second-line legal aid, where will we be in a year's time? Perhaps we would have had the opportunity, via royal decree, with the sector, to review the value but also the allocation of points? It is recognized that some procedures may not be entirely fair compared to others, given the allocation of points. Then, for what it is agreed to call the middle class, who does not have access to this second-line legal aid and who hesitates to go to court because it is sometimes expensive, you have registered insurance in your program as Minister of Justice. What are we heading for? In a year's time, will tangible contacts have been made to move forward on this topic? My colleague spoke of the costs of justice, which unfortunately have a significant backlog. You want to give confidence to the actors of justice in general. Some bailiffs in the Liège region no longer want to work for justice, because they fear that they will no longer be paid. This is not normal and it breaks all confidence with one of the three main pillars of the state. We would like to see how this backlog will evolve, both for doctors, bailiffs and other stakeholders. As far as the scale of sentences is concerned, you spoke of a commission to think about it. Behind this, it is a social debate that must be conducted together. For reintegration, we have heard with satisfaction in committee that you are considering budgetary slippages. It is indeed one thing to serve a prison sentence; it is another thing that people leave prison in better conditions than those in which they entered. On the issue of prisons, we would like to see the introduction of the electronic bracelet and other alternative penalties, decided mainly by the previous government, have an effect on prison overcrowding. In conclusion, I would like to refer to information technology. You promised a morning or a "binary" day so that we could take stock of this issue. Since the committee is composed mainly of lawyers, if they have better understood – at the end of this day – the reasons why we are so late, then we will have done useful work. I brought out the barometer of justice, a survey published in 2010 – but started in 2000 – by the Supreme Council of Justice. There are three percentages I want to raise. It would be good if in a year's time, these percentages changed. The first was the fact that 62 per cent of people in 2010 believed that citizens could easily bring legal proceedings, which was a positive development compared to 2002. If confidence is to be restored and confidence continued, that 62% would have to increase. There are 56% of people who are generally satisfied with the functioning of Justice. That means barely one in two people. This is largely insufficient. It would be interesting if at the end of the next survey commissioned by the Supreme Council of Justice, this percentage would increase. There are 25% of respondents who find that the functioning of Justice has deteriorated in recent years. Again, this rate will have to change favourably.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u243	Mr President, Minister, my group has had the opportunity to tell you what it thought of the statement. There are things that we can support and others that we have more difficulty with. I'm not going to go back to that. We know you're inheriting a bankrupt department, you recognized it yourself. I'm not going to shoot the ambulance, you can't afford your ambitions. Instead, I will wait for your government's second session to respond to what the priorities will be, since today, Justice does not seem to be one. Apart from the fact that it is bankrupt and has to be put back on track, you do not have the means to get its head out of the water or, necessarily, the means to improve the situation. We shall return to that in the debates in March. Until then, there is an emergency on which I wish to hear from you as the situation is explosive. This is Ittre's prison. You know the situation is dramatic. There are 400 prisoners in the prison and a strike began last Sunday. The management is trying to find valves for the prisoners who are locked up all day in a cell because the guards are at a standstill. We have to arrange a shower, a preau. Civil protection distributes meals. Last Saturday, there were five or six agents to hold the four wings. Monday was a general strike. Tuesday was the start of the strike at the finish. I think, unless I'm mistaken, the prison alerted you. The strikers are angry because your government would test the new cost reduction measures, including putting the prisoners in a cell at 7:00 p.m. instead of 9:00 p.m. There is therefore a tightening of the conditions of detention for prisoners. In addition, officers are relatively dissatisfied because they are denied an opportunity to increase their salary at the end of the month. And we know it's not a luxury. It looks like it lasts until Friday. Management is doing what it can. They did a Sunday pre-school on which the 400 detainees were managed by six police-assisted officers. Looks like a policeman was injured. The inmates are getting upset. The director would like the detainees to be able to see their families. It would be a salutary valve, but the police don't want to see the families. I would like to turn to concrete situations because we both recognize that you do not currently have the means to respond structurally to all the difficulties. I think there is an emergency situation in Ittre which, if you do not respond to it quickly, could turn into a tragedy. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to hear from you on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u244	Mr. President, given the time, we're gonna be short. I will simply mention three situations. The situation of justice is obviously catastrophic; I am not teaching you anything. And the government's measures to restrict the justice budget will make things worse, neither do I teach you anything. I therefore refer to three situations. First of all, let's talk about the people who are litigants. Legal aid will be reduced by 10 per cent, which will further restrict the ability of the poorest people to be adequately defended. We will apply the principle that, in court, the rich is raw and the poor is cooked. I note that finally, in this country, the right to strike is reduced and the rights to register are increased! Speaking of strikes, I come to the second situation, that of magistrates. I feel compelled to link the situation of justice with the current strikes. There is an obvious connection. The trade union association of magistrates, in my opinion, is not the kind of public used to participating in strikes. The President expressed her solidarity with the strikers last Monday. She denounced the situation – I will not give you the figures – the number of magistrates who are not replaced, etc. She says the situation is no longer tenable. "We have remained calm for twenty years while the Justice boat takes water from all sides. We touch the bottom and it's time to react." How will they react? They are considering actions, in particular the classification of cases without follow-up due to lack of resources. Or ask the magistrates to stop dealing with cases in which the State has an interest. For magistrates to carry out such actions, the cup must be full! The third situation I want to mention is that which my colleague, Mr Ecolo, has just mentioned, is the situation in prisons, particularly in Ittre. It happens that on Monday last week there were strikes in the Walloon Brabant in particular. I was in Ittre, by chance or not, and I talked on the picket in front of the prison with the guards. They explained to me that with the government's economic measures, staff were directly affected in the organization of work and that working conditions and wages would be deteriorated. Indeed, a whole series of bonuses are at risk. So there was an incredible determination at that picket. They stated that they would conduct a strike at the end of the day because these measures are not acceptable. That's what they did. I read in the press that you met them, minister. One of the prison's permanent trade unions says: "Thanks to our strong mobilization, we have won. The minister heard the call from the base." Minister, I therefore congratulate you and come to a more general conclusion that to move the government, strikes must be conducted at the end of the day. They won. All the workers who have mobilized in recent times know the way forward. If it works for Ittre prison, it will work elsewhere as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u245	Mr President, I am pleased to be able to realize the miracle of meeting Mrs Özen at 6 a.m. this morning, because she was unable to achieve this meeting during the debate on the government declaration. You'll find that I'm still ready but not in the form you were talking about. With regard to the "pot-pourri" law referred to by Mr Goffin, it comes from a law which, perhaps more pretentiously, was referred to as the "mammouth" law of 30 June 1975 on insurance supervision. We found this mammouth law so potpourri that the doctrine called it a potpourri. I started by potpourri hoping that the doctrine would call it mammoth. Mrs Özen, in committee, I have tried to explain that, in my view, we must move towards less quantitative justice: fewer detainees, fewer judgments, fewer judgments. We are above all in a justice that does its best, but that reflects too little on how much it wants to produce at all costs. She's thinking about the output and not enough about the input. If we know that the Netherlands has only 8 000 prisoners, whereas we have 11,500, that more than a third of them are in pre-trial detention, we must admit that there is a drift. I'm going to work on this problem, both in the judiciary and in the prison. This issue will, among other things, be the subject of this potpourri law. I will not dwell on the measures, because any initiative has its contraindications. I had hardly dared to speak in the committee about the chamber of council, which was already answered by speakers that it was not right, that I could not abrogate the chamber of council. Nevertheless, I will ask for the support of all at some point in time, explaining that if we want change, greater speed and greater efficiency, then we must take certain measures to reduce the output we are producing for the moment. With regard to the arrears you mentioned, I believe I have responded in committee, but I repeat that some of them need to be addressed. That's why I asked the government for an additional $25 million, which was under-employed. They will, I hope, be engaged before the end of the year, in particular to eliminate a large part of the backlog in terms of legal costs. It is also important to enter into agreements with the Minister of Public Health. As promised, I met Mrs. De Block, who declared himself a stakeholder. Of course, there is a need to discuss the modalities for Justice to pay for care, sickness and disability insurance premiums, while health care, like other citizens, would pay the bill. Because our inmates are citizens like any other, in a sense. Telling them they're not entitled to health care, I don't understand. It is also contrary to the Convention on Human Rights, which makes it clear that detainees are entitled to the same health care, under the same conditions, as other citizens of our Kingdom. As far as the costs of justice are concerned, we will, as a first step, teach the various jurisdictions to budget their costs, asking them to pass on to the Department of Justice, before any costs are incurred, the nature of these costs so that they themselves follow their types of costs and the amounts they represent. We will reduce some legal costs, particularly in relation to postage stamps and assignments. We will benefit, as far as possible, from the economies of scale that we will achieve. We are one of the largest customers in the country for many products but we do not use the purchasing power we represent, especially in prisons and various transplants. I understand that magistrates are worried about a lot of things, but I don't hope they start a strike. I speak frequently with the various colleges and unions. So I'm aware of their grievances. With regard to their monthly payment, it is obvious that they should not worry. If the government does not follow me in the pace of savings that I suggest to him in early February, we will absorb the savings by a non-replacement and we will pay the magistrates. The same applies to their pension. There has been a lot of concern about this. Together with Mr Bacquelaine, we have prepared a note on judges' pensions, which will be distributed to all judges in the country. It is aired this week and will be next week to all the magistrates of the country so that they do not worry too much and do not start to retire before the desired date of all of us, 67 years, which was already in force for them. With regard to short-term replacements, vacancies will be published in the Belgian Moniteur for 40 judges, among other things in order to fulfil with diligence our obligations relating to the Brussels-Hal-Vilvorde district. The promises made in this regard will be fulfilled. As far as the judiciary is concerned, I am currently studying with the Finance Inspectorate the possibility of promoting 95 members to the status of chief clerk already at the beginning of the year. Sensitive questions were asked about Ittre prison. But the problem was wider. Many demonstrations have taken place, as have small unannounced strikes in some prisons recently. But the situation was particularly serious in Ittre. Let me tell you that 25 minutes ago, Ittre's prison resumed the normal pace of work. What was the particular problem of Ittre? The fact is that the president of the Nivelles court had issued an order on a unilateral request in response to a request from several prisoners who considered that they were entitled to a minimum service. The reading of the Convention on Human Rights was questionable, but it could be said that those prisoners had a point in their favour. The court, or rather the President at first instance, gave them the right, on a unilateral request. Therefore, since Sunday, my department and the interior department have been busy day and night trying to make this minimal service possible in Ittre. Some people from my department went there all Sunday. The director of the prison in Ittre returned from a period of convalescence to make the best possible service. I admit it was very complicated. The government is right to say that we must, at all costs, make provision in our legislation, after broad social consultation, for the minimum service in prisons. The human conditions to which our prisoners are entitled are not always fulfilled during periods of strike. I've had a lot of contact with prison staff unions in recent months. Among other things, a meeting referred to by Mr. Van Hees this Tuesday morning. It is true that prison staff are very concerned about the budgetary measures proposed by the Government. The managers are 99.2 per cent filled in. But this does not mean that all staff are always available. There are many unavailabilitys due to illness and even fairly prolonged periods of disability. We are trying to address this concern as much as possible. I heard Mr. Van Hees said they won. It would surprise me if this word had been used in a formal setting or in a formal communiqué, because we signed a joint communiqué on what was agreed. It is true that next year we will have a very difficult period for the prison services, but we will come to a conclusion by seeking together, in social consultation, methods of rationalisation, working methods to do what is necessary with the staff present. I finish but I want to reply to the chairman of my committee because he is so kind to me! Mr Goffin, we will at all costs try to draft this nomenclature, in order to be able to reward lawyers in an honest and distributive manner for their legal aid services. I had the promised meeting with Assuralia about insurance. In the coming months, we will be looking at how to complement the measures taken by Mrs Onkelinx in this area. I feel that this matter is difficult. I am already pleased that 10% of families currently have full insurance for legal aid, but this is obviously too little. With regard to the reintegration and sliding of parts of my budget to guarantee work in prisons in order to promote this reintegration, I will do everything in my power. I don't have anything special to say about Tilburg. There are 50 people leaving at the end of this year for a new prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u246	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my group has already had the opportunity to stress on several occasions the concerns raised by this government's police and security policy. As we said during the discussion of the government statement, we made it clear at the ministerial hearings, this government, despite its major statements, is not the government of security. And when you read your budget, you discover that not only do you damage the living together but that it does not respond to the political orientations that you proclaim. First, you claim to take your responsibilities. I'm sorry to tell you, but it's not up to you to take responsibility for putting the weight of your decisions on other levels of power. Thus, from the local police, you reduce the federal allocation to police areas by no less than 5%. EUR 14.5 million is abolished as part of the policy of the major cities. These are all programmes of social cohesion, so many means to make the police community, community, that are no longer on the table and that the federated entities and the communes will have to compensate if they want to maintain the programmes. In total, up to 266 million people disappear from envelopes. You tell us what you're going to do is identify a series of tasks that you're going to entrust to the private sector. Let's talk about some of the side missions, all right. But it is not creating the conditions for a serious debate that we first set the amount to be saved and then discuss what we will stop doing. To do politics is to determine where we want to go and to find the means to achieve that ambition. You do the opposite. And you already have your answer. We're going to hand over tasks to the private sector and we're going to charge the municipalities. It can already be said that the tasks will not be assigned according to the relevance of a transfer, but according to the financial objectives that you have set yourself. These are not the conclusions of a reflection on the role of the police. For us socialists, the role of community policing is essential in terms of public service to the population, prevention and suppression of crime. I note that this is not your priority or that of your government. I regret that you are not tackling a key problem that we are facing at the local level: bureaucratization. Police areas are faced with heavy administrative burdens, for example, with ex officio police investigations, the execution of apostilles and the execution of judicial duties whose volume they do not control and which, too often, are classified without follow-up. It is not the massive cuts in the budget and in the staffing of the judiciary that will make the situation right, on the contrary. Inevitably, the judicial authorities are going to dump themselves on the police and I fear that we will have a double-speed police force: one for the rich communes, the other for the other communes that will have to deal with what your government leaves them. I also regret the reduction of resources and personnel that will affect the private security leadership of the Internal CPS. What do you want? A strengthened guarding sector without public control? Nowhere do I see your will to fight against social dumping, which also affects this sector, which you want to entrust more tasks to. I would also like to raise another point: the question of legal certainty. First of all, I would like to refer to the Court of Auditors' remarks on the legal basis for your massive reduction of the federal budget to the police areas. This body reminds you that the amount of the federal allocation is established on the basis of a royal decree and that, in order to change the amount, the order in question must be amended. You don't want to do that. Why? Because this decree defines the standard KUL, a standard that the field has long wanted to revise, whose areas have been repeating for a long time that it is inappropriate and to which you do not want to touch. I am telling you, there is already a major fundamental problem of legal certainty in this part of the budget. But there is another basis for legal certainty in our democracy that will suffer from this budget, it is the Council of State. The budget announces it without detours. Not only will the cuts in the wage bill require the separation of 12 people, but there is not even the means to fill the framework of the Council of State itself. We already know what this means: less well-motivated opinions and even more difficult access to administrative remedies. That is little to say that there is still much to do for this government before it presents a budget that reflects political choices and guarantees the proper functioning of a department as crucial as that of the interior. I look forward to February-March, so that we can finally see a successful project. Because it must be said: today, this is not a budget, it is a piece to be exhibited at the Magritte Museum, as long as it is still open! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u247	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my first weeks in this Parliament have been very intense. I believe that it must all be stressed that every effort has been made, within the majority, to ensure that everyone can speak out, question and understand the action taken by this new government. It is even less clear how, even today, some people claim not to understand what the government is planning to do to ensure the role of the public authorities, the police and civil security services. Let me say a few words about civil security, because this is a matter that we care about and that is a priority for the MR because this issue has been open for ten years now. Today, the budgets are precise. For example, €65 million goes to harmonising scales, zone commanders, end-of-career schemes, recruitment assistance and investments to cope calmly but vigilantly with the implementation of a wide-ranging reform on the ground as early as next year. For example, the planned establishment of a purchasing facility for the areas, a fully relevant measure that is in the right direction, Minister, to optimize investment procedures in equipment. Finally, the means provided for the service 112, 160 000 euros for a service which has almost become symbol of demotivation, for a service which is urgent to motivate, to renovate, to reform thanks to the creation of the agency 112. It will, of course, be necessary to monitor and evaluate all this reform, while at the same time ensuring the status of the volunteer firefighter, which is essential to ensure the effectiveness of services on a permanent basis. As far as the police services are concerned, I hear the opposition taking an intense interest – I want to say as never before – in security policy. First I hear the CDH announce that the budget of the Department of the Interior would prevent the engagement of 3,880 policemen. But what a funny calculation that starts from a budget cut divided by an inspector's average annual salary. But what a funny calculation! Who today is thinking of hiring police officers for only a year? This reasoning does not mean anything. On the other hand, it is true that we can say that we will actually hire 800 police officers on the basis of real resources during 2015. I also hear the PS shouting to the security state, talking about the tanks in our streets, that we're going to replace the police with the army. But who can believe that? We have never said, in the majority, that we want to replace the police with soldiers. Never. What is planned is reinforcement, support to the police by the army in extreme situations of risk and in the framework of an agreement of the National Security Council, chaired by our Prime Minister. A possible reinforcement also, ladies and gentlemen, at the request of the mayors who perhaps know better than others the risks on the ground and who wish to see their population legitimately protected against terrorist acts or radicalism, in these particular times when our army is engaged to defend our values in the world. Let's refresh the memoirs a little bit. Who once said: "I asked that Mr. De Crem will report to us to see when the military will be able to arrive at the stations, demilitarized, in order to assist the security officers."? It's you, Madam Group Leader of the Socialist Party. That's right, we were in this government, and we supported that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u248	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u249	There's no problem. This is the principle of military support that we supported in the previous legislature in this regard; but while recalling, Mrs Onkelinx, that your proposal was not really in a very serious threat – although – since it was at that time to deal with a STIB strike, in order to strengthen the security that was no longer provided by STIB security officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u250	Even if it is late, we must not degrade the debate. I have always taken the safety debate very seriously. We fought under the former legislature to continually invest sufficient resources to each time try to make this optimal replacement. We will remember Mrs Milquet's fight to do so. The Liberal groups and the N-VA were very attentive, were we really going to be able to reach the replacement rate? For now, you're degrading this replacement rate. You're going to have fewer police officers, less training. That's clear. This was reaffirmed in committee and plenary. And I don't think that's a good thing. Secondly, with regard to demilitarization, yes, I pleaded at the time and, yes, I continue to do so. Don't point my finger at me as if I had said an enormity that I refuse to assume!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u251	I'm not pointing a finger at you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u252	I take what I said. I believe that reinforcements, where they are absolutely indispensable, by demilitarized militiamen, are useful for public safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u253	Mr President, it is not a question of damaging the debate! Mrs Onkelinx, once again, it is rather contemptuous, even after a white night, you continue at the same pace. Mr Pivin's demonstration follows that which a number of your Members gave in the Committee on the Interior by shouting "Horror! We're going to support the police with military personnel in extreme cases related to a level 3 threat!" Mr. Pivin is merely pointing out that you had a similar approach which, of course, was not recalled by your parliamentarians when they wanted to caricature the government's approach. It is not to degrade the debate, it is to restore the facts without launching an attack. Yes, Mrs. Onkelinx, you had called for reinforcements by military personnel, whether they were demilitarized or not. You were making the connection, on a security issue much less important than that of Level 3, between the police and the Defence. This is no less than what we are considering at the level of the Department of the Interior in a number of cases. To come back, to repeat things and not to let anything pass in your remarks that would not be the truth, we will hire as many police officers in 2015 as in 2014! The Minister of the Interior had indicated that there would be 1,400 commitments. There were only 800 in 2014. We'll hire 800 in 2015!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u254	I don't want Mr. Ducrame to make me say things I didn't say. That wouldn't be right.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u255	If I did, I apologize!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u256	Mr. Chairman, he apologizes; I am pleased to do so. I never said I wanted the army on the streets. Never! On the other hand, demilitarization would help in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u257	Even if it is late or early, it is still stingy to accuse of damaging the debate when dealing with the subject of the military! We will all agree. In any case, we assume, and I think you will share this idea, the possibility of reinforcement by the army, as has been the case for decades in other democracies. I shall mention here only France or England. So being in favour of it yesterday assumes that we are today. On the privatization of police duties, I think it is also important to answer you. How can we seriously imagine that we are replacing our police services with private militias? We are not going to delegate policing to private services. For us, the maintenance of public order and the protection of persons is the responsibility of the State, the rule of law. We should, as a majority and as opposed, join us on the goal of optimising our police services in order to alleviate them from non-police, administrative and bureaucratic tasks. But you prefer to yell at the wolf and denounce privatisation before any consultation of the relevant actors, even though the conclusions of an ad hoc working group will only be known in several months. Moreover, I would like to recall the terms of the government agreement that was signed under the previous legislature. It stated: "solutions will be sought to free the police from certain administrative tasks, but also from certain operational tasks, such as the supervision of public buildings – Justice, embassies – or the transport of detainees". So what was good under the previous legislature would have become intolerable simply because of a change of majority? And what about the words of the previous Minister of the Interior, Ms Joëlle Milquet, on April 17, 2012, in the Senate's Committee of the Interior: "The government statement launches the idea of working on the main tasks of the police and examining the possibilities of entrusting them to others or even in a public-private partnership". Ladies and gentlemen, we must stop using a double language vis-à-vis our fellow citizens who ultimately want nothing more than tranquillity and public protection. It is necessary to stop always subjecting to ideological form a matter which deserves first of all a real substantive, pragmatic and constructive discussion. Even if we focus on budgetary or financial arguments alone, which would be a mistake in this debate, I think you are also wrong. And our group leader, Denis Ducrame, said during the general discussion: "Of all the savings needed to reduce the public deficit, the Department of the Interior is among the least sought out". Some reductions are planned and we are not afraid to mention them clearly. But everyone has to be honest with the numbers. In the opposition, you are talking about a decrease of 39 million euros compared to 2014. That's not true! You must also take into account an under-utilization of 37% of the budget in 2014. And you also do not take into account, in your comparisons, the fact that in 2014, 28 million arrears adjustments, including pecules, were made. The majority preferred the choice of a more comprehensive, transversal commitment rather than the simple blind choice of a new envelope modelled on previous years. Yes, we assume the 2% decrease in staffing in police areas. It's hard, but we do! This is possible, I can testify, for my police area, which still has a quarter of the Brussels communes. If we are to achieve these objectives in a transparent manner, it is in order to respond to the essential efficiency of management in a difficult context, in order to be able to make informed decisions and to avoid, for example, that we must again see, after increasing efforts to recruit police officers, that we do not have the capacity to pay them. In this complicated economic context, we make the choice of effective public safety. It is an essential landmark for all and, without a doubt, for the weakest of us. For these reasons, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will adopt this budget, thinking that it ensures a security policy that guarantees and protects our fundamental values and rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u258	Minister, finally, if you had known, you could have stayed at home, since Mr. Pivin comes again – but it is the habit of the MR – to speak to cover the N-VA ministers. We have thus received a number of answers to questions that have not yet been asked. I therefore regret, Mr Minister, that you had to make this trip at such an undue hour, especially since you have come from far away. I'm sorry about that. The exercise is difficult, because we are invited to discuss a draft declaration of intent - it is true for you as well as for your colleagues - while it is clear from the general budget for expenditure for 2015 that the financial means necessary for the declaration of intention are lacking. You may, Minister, continue to bomb the torso, to gargarize yourself for adding the term "security" to your title, as the emblem, as proof of your concern for the safety of the citizens of this country. But it is difficult, whatever one might think, to give any credit to your guidance note, because the only question that arises today is: are you going to review the budget upwards or are you going to revise your ambitions downwards? In committee, in our discussions, you told me in your conclusion that choices would be made by this government and that they would be made during budgetary control. And to add: "If security is a priority of this government, the means will have to follow". Of which act, Minister! We are waiting to see what the priorities of this government are. Until then, I will be content with a few main considerations. Whatever Mr Pivin says, you are contemplating, without any complexity, the pure and simple privatisation of some of your responsibilities. In your opinion, I quote: "As public and private actors have an important role to play in promoting the security of the citizen. As for the debate on the key tasks of the police, you are announcing that a dialogue will be held with other partners, including the private sector. You are talking about the key tasks, that is, a regal function. Police officers are specially trained to ensure respect for public order and law and are subject to a legal and ethical framework. Minister, I repeat, therefore, that my group will strongly oppose any attempt to resign the state from one of its regal functions. In conclusion, Minister, I would like to draw your attention to something that we did not discuss in our discussion, but that is something on which you have the tutelage. I would like to point out that Belgium, under this government, no longer has an asylum policy. Indeed, your Secretary of State states in his own note: "One of my priorities is to protect public order and national security." And the rest of it is to the avenger. We are therefore witnessing not only a shift in asylum policy towards a security policy, but also a real negation, a denial of what is the basis of an asylum policy. As I have done for your Secretary of State, I am doing it for you too, Minister, I would like to remind you of what an asylum policy is. To do this, I read what is written on the Fedasil website: "Any foreigner who arrives in Belgium to apply for asylum and seek protection from the Belgian authorities will go through different stages, from the submission of the application to the final decision. This is what is called the asylum procedure." Minister, if I talk about this here, it is because I expect you to agree with your Secretary of State who is doing what. Who is the Minister of the Interior and who is in charge of the Asylum? These are two different functions. Once you have agreed, Minister, I hope that we can have a policy statement on asylum worthy of what Belgium knew at the time, particularly under the rainbow government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u259	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is my task to last up to this rostrum to close a very long day and an intense night of work. Minister, I will speak on matters related to security services, firefighters and civilian security officers. As my Brussels colleague has spoken a little in your place, I will still say a number of things about the police. First of all, Mr. Pivin, we need to re-establish the truth about the efforts that this government is going to make to strengthen the police services. You talked about a number of numbers and you want to create a smoke screen. We thought that the MR/N-VA/CD&V/Open Vld government would make security a priority. When you see reality, it's something else. Here too, linearly, we make cuts. I read that the Court of Auditors has also confirmed our concerns as it says: "This government has decided to cut staff appropriations linearly to 4%, or EUR 31.5 million." Do you dispute it? "The staff appropriations provided for in the current draft budget will make it possible to recruit only 800 staff out of the 1,400 initially planned." It's gone by the hatch! The efforts that had to be made to achieve a minimum of security are not! You are challenging what the Court of Auditors says.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u260	The Court of Auditors is neither Marx nor Jesus.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u261	It is only the control body of this Parliament!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u262	We respect her, but you're going to look for things like it's your own Bible! There are elements of information that are useful, but it is not for the Court of Auditors to determine what the policy of a government should be. You're talking about a smoke screen, but you're projecting smoke! When you indicate 1,400 agents originally planned, you make a mistake. There were 800 staff engaged in 2014 and 800 staff will be engaged in 2015. If you want to approach a number of figures with the necessary rigour and precision, look at the facts as they are and don't tell us that we're going to hire fewer police officers. We'll hire just as many. I really invite you to check these elements before projecting out-of-fact figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u263	Mr. Ducrame, I'm not finished yet. It's going to be a long pain, I think. I'm not finished; I'm going to go on. You can go back. I brought an argument. Your counter-argument doesn't even stand the way. Second argument: in relation to training. The training you're talking about, Mr. Pivin, what do you do with it? I read that subsidies to police schools are planed by 10%. You were just telling us that we're going to train better with 10% less. An amount of 10,037,000 euros in 2015 compared to 11,640,000 euros with the former government. Is that the priority given to the police? Is that how you're going to train future agents? Is that how you're going to strengthen our police areas? That's right, Mr. Jambon, you're withdrawing 5% from the police areas. And you postpone this support to the municipalities. I live in my commune, of which I am a mayor. It is for Saint-Josse, Schaerbeek and Evere about 400,000 euros that we have to find somewhere. And we're in great difficulty. I am joining my colleague Mrs Ben Hamou. She's a thousand times right. Where are we going to get there with all this? With municipalities that will have the means to pay for their police, and others who will no longer be able to pay their police. You know, two thirds of the budgets go to police areas from the municipalities. Mr Jambon, I really ask you to reconsider the work that is being done at this level. Mr Pivin, when we see each other in other hemicles, we share this same vision. The municipalities are in difficulty. They must be supported by the federal state, especially in the area of security.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u264	Very briefly in relation to this, I said it and I can attest to it: the decrease did not create any additional costs for the 5 municipalities in the Brussels-West area. The decrease in staffing by 2% - the year was done at home - did not result in any decrease. It is therefore not by reason of the 2% that the municipalities are in difficulty. If necessary, we can still weigh with the index jump, it seems to me. I invite you to review, with your special receiver in the police area, the best way to work with the decrease in this staffing. If we do, Saint-Josse can do it too.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u265	Mr. Pivin, yesterday at the police council, we approved the new budget for 2015. We had to add, at the level of the three communes, a sum of about 350 000 euros on the basis of the grid which was transmitted by the services of Mr Jambon. I am talking about the municipalities of Saint-Josse, Schaerbeek and Evere. Another thing that appeals to us very strongly. You renounce the public power of the Belgian State. You are now thinking of privatizing a number of tasks. How is it possible not to invest in police services and privatize certain parts of security-related activities? This is something that my group obviously does not support. I would like to add another element which may not be related to the police but which has a cost at the municipal level. When Charles Picqué was in the federal government, he had initiated policies to help municipalities with more problems than others. This was how he had allowed large cities such as Charleroi, Liège, Antwerp and Brussels to have a fund of big cities. You have withdrawn these resources from all these communes. Here too, we are concerned about social cohesion. We risk losing staff. As I speak to you, I do not yet know how we are going to ensure these jobs in the municipalities concerned, especially since they are useful for social cohesion in the neighbourhoods. I now come to the security services, the fire department, the civil security officers. I will still say something positive about what is being presented. That way, you can say I'm so positive. This is the financing of the reform of fire services. In the budget note, you decided that those amounts that had been budgeted by the previous majority would be retained. That's a good thing. For the rest, I must again express my concern. I know a category of people who have to rub their hands today when reading your budget, they are the shareholders of insurance companies. Already, you apply your linear cuts with mathematical rigour in a series of departments: 20% less for the Knowledge Centre, 20% less for the General Inspectorate. These are services whose role is to serve and protect the lives of soldiers or members of civil security who are involved in emergency situations. We really hope that this famous interdepartmental reserve is the bottomless well that you describe, because it is on this reserve that you will certainly fund the compensation to the members of the service in case of physical damage. We are once again very worried, because by making such cuts, you are putting lives at risk: that of the citizens and that of those people who have committed themselves to protecting them, whether professional or voluntary. At the beginning of the night, I listened to the minister for the budget - and you were not there, Mr Jambon - telling us that several ministers had already decided to put their hands in this interdepartmental reserve fund. He explained to us that nothing was decided and that this body had its limits. When I hear what is said for justice, for the interior, for pensions, for employment, I do not see how you will be able to arbitrate this famous interdepartmental reserve. There are cuts in services but there are also severe cuts in transfers to other levels of power. In particular, it is apparent that fiscal restraints directly affect the provinces. For example, subsidies for urgent expenditure by operational units are reduced by one third. Investment credits for local authorities are reduced by a quarter. This is not the only way you can touch the finances of the municipal authorities. Another key issue is the funding of emergency planning. Again, it is a ruthless cut, while recent and unfortunate events have shown that such planning is essential for disaster response to take place in the best possible conditions. I could still talk about cuts in the CAD112 concertation platform that follows the evolution of the emergency number, the switch from 100 to 112, which is also a very important device for people. Here, it's 3.1 million that are erased by a feather line. This budget makes me say that the relief services will soon be the ones that will need relief. In this area, as a mayor, I think that the public authorities are literally in charge of soul. I sincerely hope that you will come back to a series of budget cuts so that yours will not be tainted with future drama.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u266	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the advantage of this three-stage debate (budgetary note, various notes and this debate) allows us to refer to the debates that have taken place in committee. However, I will touch on a few points. First, the simplicity of the budget. According to your reasoning, more means, more money means more importance. Less means, less money means less importance. For years, I've been doing business reforms. The goal was to do more with less money. But to do so, it is important to reform. We must not pursue things as they are by adding money over and over again and financing them with taxes. This is your model! Our model is different. In the budgetary framework, we look at what is available and then we act, reform and change our way of working, with the objective of personal safety. But to say that if we do not add more money in this area, it is that it is not important enough, that is a simplistic thing that I do not share!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u267	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u268	There is indeed less money. However, by restructuring, commemorating the services, reviewing the processes and adapting them to modern resources, one can greatly save and gain efficiency without compromising on the main objective of security. Simplistic explanations according to which more resources need to be provided if not does not work, are really ripped off.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u269	The previous speakers have stressed the need to take account of the objectives set. You are leaving, as you have just repeated yourself, but from the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u270	I have an objective in mind: safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u271	You must start from your objective and consider what you need to achieve it as efficiently as possible. However, you are doing the opposite. That is what all the previous speakers have said. Speaking of simplistic reasonings.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u272	Minister, I've never said that before. You're distorting what I said or I didn't make myself clear. I never said we were doing better with more money. I said that the framework, which had been studied objectively by the previous government, provided for a comprehensive framework of 1,400 police officers. You make 800. I'm not the one who says it takes 1,400, it's an objective study, a cadastre that has been carried out. These are means that have been objected to. But you're getting out of the way. I've quoted a whole series of things. For training, for the communes, you are withdrawing resources and it is the communes that will have to strengthen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u273	It's simplistic. If you pull out the means, that means you can't add them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u274	Mr Jambon, the situation of the police in that country has been objected to and, at some point, all the experts have said that in order to reach an effective police force on the ground, it is necessary to increase the number of 1,400 police officers each year. You question that. That you are doing a reform, I agree that we can do one at some point. But what is unacceptable here are budget cuts that you make linearly at the level of all departments. Your colleague present earlier, cannot pay the arrears because you have made the same budget cuts linearly in his department. And in your department, you're doing the same thing when you had objective studies and were supposed to help you say that at the police level we don't have to do this for the reasons I just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u275	Mr Jambon, let me say that you, on the other hand, are telling anything. Let me refer you to the report of our work in committee and to your various statements. You yourself closed your intervention in committee by telling us that if security was a priority of this government then the means would follow. Don't overturn the roles! I have a question about what you're telling us, Mr. Jambon. You say it's simplistic. I hear ministers – Mr Geens was there before you – who tell us that they are going to fight for their departments, so that they are better funded. You assume that you say, "I don't speak for my department."
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u276	When did I say that?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u277	I'm not saying it; it's a question I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u278	When did I say that, that I don't want to fight for my department? I was just starting a line of reasoning and you cut me off. Can I continue my reasoning?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u279	I'll finish. You say it's simplistic on our part to say "less means, no work, or no quality of work at least". You tell us we're simplistic. Didn't you say our reasoning was simplistic?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u280	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u281	What does that mean? Does that mean that with less resources, you could take on the same tasks?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u282	What I said, and I repeat, is that fewer means do not prevent restructuring and being more effective on the ground. The opposite reasoning is simplistic. Secondly, privatisation. I understand that, for your part, you are making the debate on privatization an ideological debate. What we are going to do is what has already been done for the last ten years, it is to conduct the debate on the key tasks. We will close this debate. Tomorrow, a working group will start working to see what is already being produced in this context and we will present a draft of key tasks to the government. There are three types of tasks. First, the tasks to be performed by police officers. This is the case with most of the current tasks, I am convinced. Secondly, there may be tasks that must no longer be carried out, because the reason why they were introduced at the time is over. Thirdly, the tasks that are being carried out by police officers but that are not police tasks. I give an example. When we arrested a thief with what he stole, they're police officers who will bring the items back to their owner. You think that's normal? It's a mail service! Every day, mail services bring packets from one point A to one point B. Today, police officers are used to carry out this task. I tell you very frankly that these are missions that other people can accomplish. It's just an example. I don't think it's very smart to make it an ideological debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u283	You might think it's a mail job. But imagine that I'm getting my jewels ripped off the street, that we find them, and that it's DHL that gives them back to me. The fact that it is a policeman who comes to my door, who comes to talk and see how I'm going, shows that it's not just a matter of returning an object from a point A to a point B.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u284	It's not the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u285	Minister, I am taking the example you have just given. The more we discuss it, the clearer the definition of tasks will be. That is what you entrusted to the working group as your mission. But this must be refined in the light of reality. If a courier comes to bring me the chain that was ripped from me in the middle of the street, it's still violent!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u286	This has nothing to do with the example I give. It's quite another thing. If you mean that no task currently performed by police officers can be done by other people, then we don't find ourselves. I want to conduct this debate and I am convinced, not ideologically, but in practical terms, that we will find missions that should not be entrusted to police officers. I'm not talking about ideology, I'm talking about efficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u287	Mr President, I will not go back to the first point, but I will reply to Mrs Khattabi on the second point. You are perfectly in your role by taking an initiative and proposing a working group. I ask you whether you intend to invite the representatives of the police areas to this working group. Will the municipalities be present?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u288	You ask me a question and you interrupt me. In this group, there are representatives of the local police.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u289	Minister, you will understand why I want to finish. All the municipalities in Belgium have developed a system of guardians of the peace. A series of tasks that were previously carried out by the police are now carried out by civilians, who are very often sworn agents. What you want to do, we have already done with others, at other times in the history of this country. That being said, you have the full opportunity to make proposals. I ask that this working group be open to representatives of the police areas and also to the communes. The municipalities are first and foremost the financiers for two thirds of the police zones, I would like to remind you. Whether it is the provision of buildings or police holdings, the municipalities ensure that these police areas function. In addition, through other federal government funding, there are prevention and security contracts by the Region, which have been put in place in the area of safety and prevention. In order to have a full dialogue with all the actors involved, it is essential to have the communes and police areas around the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u290	In the task force, there will be the federal police, the local police and some specialists. I want to commit myself to the fact that we will consult with the VVSG and the Unions of Walloon and Brussels cities and municipalities. The second point concerns bureaucratization. If you go through the government agreement, it's the opposite! After discussing key tasks, the next step is to look at each task and look at how to make them more effective and effective. This is the normal business process reengineering process. Thirdly, when it comes to defence, let us also come out of the cartoons! Nobody says we want to see the army on the street. Only in well-defined circumstances, in the event of a threat by more than three persons, recourse to the army can be discussed with the Security Council, at the request of a mayor. Earlier, when we leave the room, you will observe that Defence is present for our protection. We're already doing it today. To claim that Defence is not trained to do so, while it is present every day, is not appropriate. So let's get out of the caricature! As far as police areas are concerned, the resources granted will be reduced by a maximum of 2%, which will be offset by the index jump. In this regard, caricatures should also be removed. Mr President, I think I have touched on most of the points.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u291	Mr Jambon, I also see them as you do: they welcome us and they are very pleasant. However, when you talk about the exceptional nature of the use of military services, that is already the case. If what appears in your note refers to what already exists, I do not see where the novelty is. In the case of disaster contingency plans, the military can also be called upon.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u292	Now you're talking about disasters. I'm talking about a level three threat. This is, for example, a situation that we often have in Antwerp in the Jewish quarter. Right now, we can't use Defence to go there. Let's get out of the caricature. I want to talk to everyone, but it has to take place on the basis of the facts, and not cartoons.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip023x.u293	This will allow us to close the debate. We shall resume the sitting tomorrow at 2:15 p.m. with the oral questions, after which the other powers will be discussed. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 18 December 2014 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 18 December 2014, at 2.15 p.m.
