ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip019x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip019x.u2	The President (in front of the standing assembly) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on Friday 5 December, she died in the castle of Stuyvenberg, in Brussels, Her Majesty Queen Fabiola, widow of King Baudouin and fifth Queen of the Belgians. Queen Fabiola was born under the name Fabiola, Fernanda, Maria de las Victorias, Antonia, Adelaida de Mora y Aragón on 11 June 1928 in Madrid, as the sixth child of Count Gonzalo de Mora and doña Blanca de Aragón. In the midst of Spain's intense social and political turbulence in the 1930s, young Fabiola was given a traditional aristocratic education. Noble young ladies were encouraged to take care of themselves, as was our future Queen, who, after her training as a nurse, joined the military hospital Caravancia in Madrid and also volunteered in disadvantaged neighbourhoods in the Spanish capital. In addition to her social commitment, the great cultural interest of young Fabiola also stood out: she played guitar and piano, she drew and painted, she wrote children's stories and learned French, German and Italian easily. Those two characteristics were to continue to characterize Fabiola's social commitment and cultural interest throughout her life as Queen. Doña Fabiola married King Baudouin on 15 December 1960. Baudouin, who had reigned for ten years, had until then returned the image of a man reserved, solitary, or even sad. Since joining the throne at the age of 21, he has been confronted successively with the consequences of the Royal Question, the school war, the deterioration of the socio-economic climate and the independence of the Belgian Congo. A woman without doubt intelligent, Queen Fabiola understands from the outset that she will have the essential task of providing her support, first of all to her husband, the King, but also to her new compatriots. For more than thirty years, until King Baudouin's death on 31 July 1993, she stood unconditionally at his side. It has made him, as many close friends have shown, a king truly attached to his office, over three decades marked by the difficult transformation of unitary Belgium into a federal state. In the private sphere, the royal couple also went through trials, the most painful of which was undoubtedly the fact, in the second half of the 1960s, that they would never have children. But the King and the Queen have always been able to give meaning to their common sorrow and thus further strengthen the ties between them. Many witnesses, including a former Prime Minister, describe Baudouin and Fabiola as the "perfect pair": perfect by the understanding, respect and love they are wearing. While Queen Fabiola primarily supports her husband, she does not spare her efforts to also help her compatriots. The Queen was someone who could listen: When one spoke to her, an intimus testified, one felt that one was not a number. She didn't have any protocol conversations. And she made easy contact. As proof of the latter: in the Saint Peter's Hospital in Brussels, she embraced one of the first AIDS patients in our country, at a time when AIDS was thought to be highly contagious. Because she felt that she should be able to dialogue directly with all Belgians, Fabiola had immediately after her engagement with the King of Belgium, in September 1960, dedicated herself to learning Dutch, and she had also succeeded in doing so. The Queen not only listened, but actually took care of a lot of social and cultural matters. For example, she founded the Queen Fabiola Fund for Mental Health, which aims to give mental health a full place in everyday life, and she also worked for the social recognition of psychiatric patients and their environment. To help her with her philanthropic and social action, Queen Fabiola founded Queen Fabiola's Aid Fund. Through that Aid Fund, she supported numerous social, educational and medical initiatives to combat poverty in general and to combat poverty of chance in particular. The fight against trafficking in human beings and prostitution, as well as women's emancipation in developing countries, also received full attention: in 1992, at the Geneva Palace, she chaired the Summit on the Economic Development of Rural Women, in the presence of 64 wives, partners of Heads of State or Government. And then she also had her Social Secretariat, which received thousands of letters each year. She insisted that each letter should be answered, and encouraged her staff to do so as accurately as possible, including by obtaining advice from ministries and public services. If that advice didn't come, she wouldn't hesitate to call the people involved. From a cultural point of view, Queen Fabiola's artistic and musical tastes bear witness to a great eclecticism. While her preference goes to classical music – she will be for almost 50 years, from 1965 to 2013, the honorary president of the Queen Elizabeth Competition – she also appreciates lighter musical genres. On the occasion of her death, the newspapers reminded us that she was a big fan of the Swedish pop band ABBA. In 1999, she even intended to attend the first performance of the ABBA musical in London – a project that the Palais, according to a reliable source, would not have allowed. After King Baudouin's premature death – a trial that she will go through with the greatest dignity – Queen Fabiola becomes more discreet, faithful to the principle that she has made her own and that there is no room for two queens in Belgium. On the other hand, she continues her social work in favour of the weakest and holds the honorary presidency of the King Baudouin Foundation. It also remains available for cultural initiatives dear to her, such as the Queen Elizabeth Competition, which will remain under her High Protection until 2013, when her condition will no longer allow her to hold any more functions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Queen Fabiola will remain in our memories as the inseparable wife of King Baudouin, but also as a lady with a real sense of humour always wanting to be optimistic and animated by a great will. A lady who, preferably far from the spotlight, has always had the concern to do good around her, especially for the weakest in our society. Our assembly offers the Royal Family her deeply moved expressions of compassion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip019x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday morning at the Royal Palace, across the park, long queues of grieving people, hundreds of citizens greeting the fifth Queen of the Belgians. The death of Queen Fabiola affects our country, it affects the citizens and it affects the government. On behalf of the Prime Minister and the entire federal government, I would like today to pay tribute to this exceptional queen. For thirty-three years she was an unconditional support for King Baudouin, a rock he could always hold on to. She remained consciously out of the spotlight, but was therefore no less present. She served the monarchy and her adopted land. Although, unfortunately, she was never allowed to get to know the happiness of motherhood, she was the mother of all Belgians, a person radiating certainty, affection and trust. After King Baudouin's far too early departure Queen Fabiola came to the fore for once. During that sad first August days of 1993, she became a rock for the whole of Belgium. The dignified way in which she bore her grief offered the people comfort, not with great words, but with as simple as warm gestures. In a sea of mourning black she shone hope in her white clothing that day. The Queen was indeed a woman of deeds instead of words. She showed social commitment by defending the weakest in our society. She showed cultural commitment, as a patron of the Queen Elisabeth competition. Even today, after her death, she shows her commitment by giving her legacy to charity. We will also remember Queen Fabiola as a woman with an exceptional sense of humor. She proved that sometimes an apple means more than a thousand words. Ladies and gentlemen, the Queen has also seen Belgium go through difficult times, but this reminds us that this country has always been able to overcome obstacles. We will keep the memory of a loving queen attached to the Belgian people. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, now that we are saying goodbye to Queen Fabiola, its immense positive impact on our country and its people is becoming really clear. Her sober lifestyle is in stark contrast to the love she felt for our country. In his last Christmas deity at the end of 1992, King Baudouin addressed the youth of our country and said that the world needs generous people who respect the others, trust him, help him and meet him with affection. Only true love can change the world. That message for the youth was at the same time the perfect description of his wife. Let that be the way we will remember Queen Fabiola. Let that be the real legacy of the fifth Queen of the Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip019x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to observe a minute's silence in memory of the late Queen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip019x.u5	The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 11 December 2014 at 3 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, December 11, 2014 at 15.00 a.m.
