ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u1	We will open this joint meeting of the Committees on the Interior and the Economy. We suggest that you start with a presentation by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. Then each of you will be able to ask questions about nuclear security. Then we'll talk about Elias. We must not confuse the problems of nuclear security and security of supply. I believe that this will lead to greater clarity in the debate. Of course, since we are numerous because of the importance of the debate, we ask everyone to be brief and to avoid too much development. Do we agree on this way of working? [[Sentiment]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u2	On behalf of all of you, I welcome Mr Jan Bens, Director-General of the FANC and Mr Vandenberghe of Elia. Mr Vandenberghe is accompanied by Mrs Tant and Mr Damilot, whom I also welcome. As my colleague has said, we shall begin with the FANC and its presentation. Then we will ask questions. Mr Bens, you have the floor. There's going to be a presentation. As a result, we will have to switch places. Mr Bens, as soon as the technical installation is complete, you can begin.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u3	Mr President, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for inviting us to explain the state of the nuclear power plants in Belgium. Before I begin that explanation, I would have liked to have situated the FANC, the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control. Our main mission is to protect the population, workers and the environment from the harmful effects of radioactivity. As the President said in the introduction, matters such as energy supplies will come to my fellow Members from Elijah, who will deal with them in the near future. To establish the thoughts, I have also included in my slides a piece from the law on the core exit. That law, adopted in 2003 and amended in December 2013, sets a date for the seven reactors to stop electricity production. I now discuss the different sites, of which the first Tihange 1. With regard to Tihange 1 site, which is scheduled to be closed on 1 October 2025, this plant is in normal working condition. However, for the time being, it is at a standstill for the planned reloading. Tihange 1 has an 18-month cycle for its charging stops. The months of September and October were planned for this. In view of the situation, Electrabel decided to shorten the duration of this stop, which was normally scheduled for seven or eight weeks, so that the plant would be available again at the end of October - early November. The charging period is used to recharge the core, deliver fresh fuel, perform normal maintenance and control work, as well as improvement work. The latter are specific to this year's cut-off: they are due to the 10-year periodic re-evaluation of safety. Investments to improve the design have been decided – design upgrades, as we say in jargon. In addition, some work must be done in the context of post-Fukushima stress tests. We have defined an investment programme for power stations: some of these investments will be made during this cut-off. When Electrabel decided to shorten its duration, we analysed what work it was absolutely necessary to do in September from a safety point of view. Other work that is not so urgent will be carried out during a planned stopover in June and July of next year. Electrabel was primarily committed to doing this work before the fortieth anniversary of the instalment, on 1 October 2015. The next stop is planned for 2016 for the reloading of the heart and normal maintenance work. With regard to Tihange 2, the planned stop date is 1 February 2023. It is one of two reactors with hydrogen defects in the reactor tank. On March 26 of this year, we realized that, following the tests that the Agency had requested on the samples – to irradiate them – these irradiation tests had unexpected results. Since we didn't understand what it was due to, we decided to shut down the Tihange 2 and Doel 3 reactors, which are in the same condition. In the meantime, Electrabel has carried out additional studies, irradiation tests which are still ongoing at the Mol Research Centre in the BR-2 reactor (Belgian Reactor nr 2). Even yesterday afternoon, I attended a meeting with Electrabel, who informed us about the state of work and future trials. The first very rough results confirm the results we had in March. There is an irradiation effect on steel with hydrogen defects and the mechanism that causes this unexpected effect is still unknown. Before restarting, the Agency's terms and conditions remain the same. We must first be able to explain the phenomena. With this new knowledge, it is a matter of rewriting a dossier to justify the safety of the reactor. The tank is a very special equipment of the reactor. Everything can break in a nuclear power plant. Safety systems intervene to remedy this. But the reactor tank can't break. So we are much stricter. Electrabel promises to get the results in autumn. In my opinion, this will be more for the end of autumn than the beginning. When Electrabel has submitted its files, the Federal Agency will also be able to carry out its own reviews by its experts, assisted – as was the case two years ago – by a panel of scientific experts, both Belgian and international. These individuals will also need some time to assess the results. For the moment, Tihange 2 is at a standstill. Tihange 3 is a normal, operational power plant. The closing date is set for September 1, 2025. An intermediate stop is scheduled during the spring of 2015. Various important works are planned. On the one hand, the reloading and renewal of the usual maintenance work. On the other hand, the lid of the tank, which has certain defects, will also be changed. It's a file that's been hanging around for several years. Finally, improvement work following stress testing studies and periodic safety assessments. Objective 1, whose legal stop is scheduled for 15 February 2015, is currently fully operational. It is important to know that Electrabel has optimised the management of both Objective 1 and Objective 2 fuel, so that on 15 January next year, and for Objective 2 on 15 December, all fuel will be used up. The reactor will therefore be technically extinguished, due to a lack of fuel. It should also be noted that the 10-year safety assessment is planned everywhere. For Objective 1, this was done earlier, in preparation for a possible extension. At the time when the decision to close became final, the study was reoriented to: what should we do to ensure safety during the period of cessation and the subsequent period of decommissioning? The same story applies to Objective 2. Target 2 is currently running at full load. The wear fabric there will be used by 1 December 2015. A very short stop is planned for reloading, to arrange the fuel differently in order to make maximum use of it. The comments on the safety assessment also apply to Objective 2. The study has been reoriented with a view to permanent discontinuation and decommissioning. For Objective 3, exactly the same story applies as for Tihange 2. The irradiation teams and the studies are common to these two reactors. The results and requirements of the FANC are the same. Only the specific studies on the structural behaviour of the reactor vessels of Objective 3 and Tihange 2 differ, of course, because they show other indications. Finally, there is Objective 4, which should normally close on 1 July 2025. As you know, there was a serious incident there last month, on August 5th. Due to a conscious manual action, the emergency exhaust of the lubricating oil of the turbine has been opened, causing the turbine to suddenly fall without lubrication. This, of course, has caused considerable damage, both to the bearings of the turbine and to the blades of the turbine. The bearings must be replaced. That's what the spare parts are for, so that's good news. For the turbine, however, new pieces have to be made. I hear from Electrabel it has put a lot of pressure on a number of manufacturers to do so as soon as possible. They still announce their Transparency website as a date at the end of December. If everything goes well, if the manufacturers give it the necessary priority and if there are no technical difficulties during the replacement work, then it seems realistic to me that December is feasible. The condition of the turbine is not my competence, but that is what I hear from Electrabel himself. The court investigation into the incident is in the hands of the public prosecutor. Absolute secrecy was asked about all the elements involved in the incident. We have, of course, also learned that something like this can happen, that someone from within can do such a malicious act. In the meantime, we have imposed on operator Electrabel, both for Objective 4 and for the other Objective and Tihange reactors, a number of measures to strengthen security, access and control. The security measures are not on the clock, so that people with bad intentions do not get the wrong idea. I can't tell you much more about that. Finally, I would like to make one final point. The next standstill of Target 4, scheduled for reload and similar to what will happen in Tihange 3 with a new lid and some improvement work following the stress tests, is planned for the third quarter of 2015. With the lengthy standstill which will last for at least four months, we must now see whether this reload should not be postponed. Electrabel will have to take a stand on this. That is the state of the seven power reactors in Belgium. I understand that you would like to ask questions about this now.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u4	Thank you, Mr Bens. Mr Wollants, Mr Thiébaut, Mr Clarinval, Mr Nollet, Mr Calvo, Mr Van Hees, Mr Carcaci and Mrs Dierick, Mr Matz, Mr Jiroflée and Mr Gerkens will now have the floor on security issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u5	Thank you, Mr Bens, for your statement on the state of play. There's been a lot to do about the file. As I understand it, today we have confirmation of the results of the hydrogen flakes in the reactor vessels. They correspond to what was already established in March. Is there any conclusion in your opinion today for the future? In the press, several people have already drawn conclusions from this. I would like to know whether there is any effective basis for this. After all, it is easy to make a statement without knowing exactly what is going on. I have a second question about the emergency exhaust and its security at Objective 4. Have international standards been established on how to protect such a thing? I do know that it is not necessarily directly linked to the nuclear part, but I can imagine that it also plays a role if you look at it. Do you think the plant wasn't actually properly secured? In other words, are there other power stations in the world where stricter standards exist or have the classic standards applied everywhere? Can you tell us more about the emergency exhaust? I understand that it is all very sensitive, but for a good understanding it would be useful for us to find out a little more. As far as the Long-Term Operation is concerned, there is Tihange 1's project. In the past, projects have been started and then stopped for the time being. What could be the further lead time for such a LTO project to be approved, for example for Objective 1 and Objective 2? My third question is about fuel. The presentation shall state that the fuel will run out by February and December respectively. Do we have to understand that it will be up in February and December or perhaps an end to that? That was not clear from the presentation. In other words, will the power stations continue until February and December or will the fuel have been used up earlier? That seems interesting to me to know so that we can get a good view of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u6	Mr President, I would also like to thank Mr Bens for his briefing. Indeed, it paints a good picture of our country's nuclear production architecture; it perfectly puts in place the ideas of parliamentarians on this situation. However, I have a few questions. Micro-cracks are a problem that Parliament has been dealing with for some time now, particularly in the nuclear safety sub-committee; you have already given a presentation, but more technical than today's. However, I wonder about the results. As a first step, we had obtained the results of samples taken from a metal element that had the same defects as the tank of our reactors. Then there were some concerns about these samples. It was then planned to irradiate these elements in a manner similar to the metal of the active tanks in order to observe the effect of irradiation on the material. These are the results we have long been waiting for. Last week's Echo published an interview in which you stated that Electrabel did not disclose enough of its maps related to these tests, which you would like to receive more information. Today, you confess to having obtained it since you had a meeting after which you can be more precise. I'm trying to decode everything. Now, I believe that it is still not clear what is to be done after these results have been achieved. We are told to wait for the results; once these have been achieved, it would be a matter of getting others. So we are constantly waiting for results without providing us with the possible scenarios according to the results. I'd like to hear a little more about that. What are the risks based on official results? For Doel 4, we know that the incident occurred in the non-nuclear zone. In the end, do the Agency's powers apply to the entire facility? To what extent will you have to give your authorization to return to service? Can you explain to us how this will almost happen? Finally, you announce in the press that Doel 4 could be put back into service earlier than the end of the year. Yet today, you do not confirm it to us. As far as micro-cracks are concerned, how do you explain the slow pace of Electrabel? Do these tests really take so long? We are reassured to hear that the safety of citizens, workers and the environment prevails over security of supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u7	Mr Bens, thank you for this very clear presentation of the situation. With regard to the tests carried out, you refer to raw results, on the basis of which you say that the irradiation effect seems to be confirmed. This suggests that what was noted at the last meeting of the nuclear safety sub-committee is well founded. Can you tell us a little more about these raw results? I read in the press this weekend that you seem to be expecting these results. What new elements have been brought to your attention since Saturday? What will be the procedure? Will you use the same procedure as for the first tests? Can you tell us more about the international scientific panel? As regards Doel 1 and Doel 2, what would be the time frame for a possible extension of these two reactors? It is obvious that if Tihange 2 and Doel 3 are to be closed, this inevitably calls into question the nuclear release schedule. What would be the time frame for re-starting Doel 1 and Doel 2, taking into account the need for new fuel, investments and improvements, and the need to integrate stress tests? Another point I would like to address is the problem of Doel 4 sabotage. According to the press, in order to repair the sabotage in question, Electrabel evokes a necessary delay up to December. As my colleague, Bert Wollants, pointed out, we could also imagine that Doel 1 would close a month earlier because of the lack of fuel. It is a question of February, but let us imagine that it closes in January, and that, moreover, the revival of Doel 4 planned for December does not take place until January, so none of these reactors would be in operation in January. Are you sure that this deadline set for December will be met? The month of January 2015 will be fundamental to spending this winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u8	Mr President, Mr Bens, thank you for explaining the various nuclear reactors in our country. My fellow Members have already asked a lot of questions. I won't repeat it. I have two more questions for you. My first question concerns Objective 3 and Tihange 2. Mr Bens, you say that you had a meeting with Electrabel on Saturday and that the interim results were communicated there. Are there any indications, on the basis of these results, that these reactors will be restarted? Or is it too premature to say this already? It has already been launched in the media that they will certainly not be restarted. Is this news premature or not? I assume you will be waiting for the final results. You also announced that you would sit down with your own and international experts. Has it been established which international experts will be involved? Will it be the same members of the previous panel group? Have they already been informed of the interim results? Final results are expected in the autumn. How long will it be before there is a final opinion from the FANC? How long will it take to get all international experts together? What timing can we expect for a final conclusion? Secondly, with regard to Tihange 1, Electrabel has decided to adapt the ten-year revision. You emphasised quite strongly that Electrabel had decided this. However, I assume that this has been done in consultation with and after the advice and approval of the FANC. I also assume that the split-up of the revision does not involve any risk derivatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u9	Mr President, Mr Bens, thank you for the explanation. A lot of questions have been asked. So I'll be brief. My first question concerns Tihange 2 and Objective 3. You say that on the basis of the first results you can confirm the radiation effect, but that the real reason has not yet been found. Does the FANC consider that this interim outcome is sufficient? Is there no possibility of getting more detailed information? What tests and studies were carried out? What are the more detailed results? If you do not have it, how do you intend to dispose of it? I think it is particularly important for the FANC to know in more detail what has already been done in the context of the Objective 3 and Tihange 2 research. Somehow, through the government or by other means, you will be able to obtain more information than we have now, unless you can now provide further clarification. As far as Objective 4 is concerned, I have another question. Has any form of peer review been done with other nuclear regulators, for example in neighbouring countries? How do we deal with safety in non-nuclear zones? Are there no small improvements that Belgium can apply in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u10	Mr President, Mr Bens, thank you for your concise but clear statement. I have a few more questions. Firstly, as far as Objective 4 is concerned, you say that there was clearly a security problem there, but you cannot say much more about it. I understand that, but I would like to know how there is a security problem. Is there a structural undersecurity that has always been there, or is it a coincidence? Can we get a little more explanation on that? You say that additional measures are being taken in the other power stations. What are these additional measures? Was it ensured that such a thing could not occur a second time? If I have understood you correctly, you are proposing the rebooting of Target 4 in the run-up to December. I understand things will have to be checked out. Will Objective 4 then immediately reverse, or will there first be a trial period, a restart period? Will electricity be produced immediately or will it take longer? In what way will it be communicated? Will we know that very clearly? Tihange 2 and Target 3 would be communicated in the autumn. In what way, we would have liked to know. Will there then be final conclusion, or will there be additional reviews and tests? What we are also interested in, but what I have not yet heard here is the European aspect. Similar plants operate in some of our neighbouring countries. Does the current events at Tihange 2 and Objective 3 also affect our neighbouring countries or how similar plants will be handled there? We believe that this has an indirect effect on the entire energy supply in our region. We wonder to what extent the Belgian results will be extrapolated to other similar reactors. The next question is absolutely not insignificant. We are rather concerned about the fact that some of our fellow Members believe that Objective 1 and Objective 2 could be extended. You say the fuel will be running out about February 2015. I have two specific questions. Firstly, is this an irreversible process, or is there still scope for a continuation, for those who dream of keeping Objective 1 and Objective 2 open even longer? Secondly, what about the months before when it is indeed about an irreversible process? Will there be less electricity produced? Or is this a process that stops at some point in its entirety?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u11	Mr Bens, I will not go back to the points that have already been raised. Your answer will probably be more fundamental than that question. Can we, yes or no, extend technically – politically, that's something else – Doel 1 and Doel 2? If things are clear at the end of this meeting, it will help everyone. Then, about Tihange 1 – but this question has also already been asked – have you properly validated the changes in the 10-year review schedule? Has the safety been fully validated? My own questions relate to other aspects. Your initial statement that the last tests confirm, at this stage, what has been said about Tihange 2 and Doel 3 is a question to us. At the same time, you say that the mechanisms that led to this problem are still not known. How long could these plants be reopened? If I understood correctly, an internal work is done first by the operator – which would lead us to about December. Then there is your own validation with the help of international actors. That is, of course, absolutely necessary. What do you think is the nearest date? I am not saying that we will know the final results at that time. It is a question of whether one of the assumptions raised at the previous meeting is still on the road – namely that this could be revived, under certain conditions, before the coming winter. Still regarding Tihange 2 and Doel 3, do the results of the tests currently in your possession have a potential impact on other reactors in Europe and around the world, following the information procedures that are known internationally in terms of nuclear safety? In short, what is the status of your contacts with the international authorities? I will say one more word about Tihange 3, since you remind us that the Tihange 3 lid is also a problem and that we will take advantage of the revision to modify it. Is there a possible connection to what was discovered in the cracks in Tihange 2 and Doel 3? Finally, as far as Doel 4 is concerned, I find it amazing that, in this environment that we are presented with as being so safe, so secure with impossible controls, denials of access, etc., we have reached a leak of 65,000 liters! It's not a bathtub! It's a pool! We must realize what this represents. Is it operated manually or electronically? Is there not an automatic control mechanism before 65,000 litres can flow and the turbine continues to operate? Beyond the judicial investigation, technically, is this not a fundamental problem in an environment that is presented as being so safe? This could simply be avoided by internal procedures. Anyway, I'm very dubious. Even if I respect the fact that the elements of a judicial nature are not communicated to us, I wonder, beyond those elements of a judicial nature, about the procedures following the act of vandalism. You're talking about collaborators. Does this mean that the hypothesis of external intervention is already excluded? When you talk about collaborators, they are inevitably internal people. I wanted you to be able to repeat this. As I mentioned at the previous meeting, there is an opportunity to convene a committee in camera if necessary. We will see depending on the exchanges. I conclude with a general consideration. We have seven reactors in Belgium. In order to take stock of the situation, we are obliged to analyse each of them, especially since almost all of them present problems. At the turn of everything that is happening and that has been revealed in practice and in the news these months, I wonder whether the question of control and safety mechanisms should not be raised more fundamentally. Is it normal for operators to have such a hand on the first analyses and whether you are dependent on what happens, what the operator gives or not? Should we not put in place another more intrusive mechanism in which the federal agency itself would have the opportunity to come and do the tests online, more than today, and not in the second line? Is this transparency and capacity for intervention not a real need in a world that is known to be relatively enclosed and hermetic but that does not protect us from many incidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u12	Mr President, I thank the speaker for his briefing. It is never pointless to insist on the issue of timing. Once we have the results of the complementary tests for Doel 3 and Tihange 2 and when you have gathered the panel of experts, how long will it take to reach a decision for these two reactors? It is important to stress this in the light of our previous committee meetings on this issue. Many mentioned your interview in L'Echo. I'll take two excerpts. On August 30, you said that Electrabel was shooting himself in the foot by not communicating better and that if they wanted a quick decision, they had to pass on the information quickly. Do you consider that there is a lack of transparency on the part of the operator in this file? Do you consider the information provided to you sufficient? In this interview, you also mention that: "We are eating the safety margins. At some point, we can't go any further." What do you mean by that? No colleague has come back to this statement when it seems important to me. Can you give further insight into what you wanted to say when you made this answer about technical data?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u13	Mr President, as far as Doel 4 is concerned, it is quite impressive to see sabotage in an area as sensitive as a nuclear power plant! Today, we have taken into account the risks that this could entail. For Doel 4 and the other power stations, have any measures already been taken? Even if I understand that secrecy is important, can you give us any guidance on these measures? Is there a possibility that the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 power plants will never be reopened? Could the difficulties they face prove insurmountable? If these plants were not reopened, what could be drawn as a nuclear park, not only for this winter, but for the following winter, since other plants have to close by then?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u14	Mr President, I join my colleagues in thanking the speaker. A number of the questions I wanted to ask have already been asked. However, I have three left. Why have destructive tests been performed on non-representative samples? In fact, it seems that the samples in question do not have the same diox layer as that which covers the walls of our vats. My second question relates to alloying capacity and micro-inclusions. It seems, after questioning a few specialists, that the cracks that have been discovered are parallel and not perpendicular and that the danger in the event of thermal shock results from cracks perpendicular to the tank. Is that correct? Finally, what are the results of the AIB-Vinçotte analyses? Why have they not been published?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u15	Mr President, I would also, of course, like to thank Mr Bens for coming. Mr Bens, I note that every time you come to this committee there is an additional nuclear problem. We have been able to follow the route over the last few months. My fellow Members have already noticed that the problems of our nuclear park are considerable, and there are only problems. Every time you come here, a new problem pops up. It is my sincere conviction that the agency is playing a short game and is trying to do everything in its power to manage this, but I can only see that a problem keeps popping up and that new solutions need to be sought. If cracks are detected, additional analyses are performed. If there is a problem with physical security, additional measures will be taken. Despite the Agency's commitment and expertise, you are always forced to respond. Nuclear security and safety are, however, the best proactive approach. All this as a preliminary remark, Mr President. I shall then come to my questions on Objective 3 and Tihange 2. I, along with my fellow Members, note that you have important news today. The results were confirmed in your opinion, because the problems identified with the samples confirm the results of March. This is important news. It bothers me a little that the operator constantly shifts the deadline and thus does not give any clarity to all market players. One will only be the builder of a gas plant, because today we have been waiting two years for a conclusion on Objective 3 and Tihange 2. I recall that Electrabel announced in March that it would be certain in June whether or not Objective 3 and Tihange 2 could be restarted. This conclusion may not come until after winter. Mr Bens, I believe that at some point, together with the federal government, the control body should have insisted on that clarity. Many people say that the reactors, which are currently experiencing problems, are actually dying. The market is nevertheless entitled to clarity with regard to Objective 3 and Tihange 2. Mr President, the results are well known, they were discussed on Saturday. As chairman of the Committee on the Interior, I suggest that you ask for these results. You should point out that Parliament is entitled to the results concerning Objective 3 and Tihange 2. I believe that there should be a consensus on this in this committee. This is not a matter of majority or opposition. I'll get to Target 4. Of course, you can't name names. However, I believe that you should make it clear to this committee what the operator is responsible for doing so. The physical security of nuclear power plants is regulated by royal decree. I could quote from it, but this would be pretty boring. The Royal Decree stipulates that all possible measures must be taken to secure themselves. Nevertheless, the incident has occurred. Quite apart from the question of who did it, in my opinion, you can make a ruling today on whether the operator has taken sufficient measures to secure itself. Something in the same atmosphere, safety attestations and safety certificates are in two variations: the permanent and the temporary. Your agency plays an important role in this. Is it adequately handled or sloppy, with this as a result? I have a third question about Objective 4. The timing has already been asked. I am very curious about the interaction between the FANC inspectors and the federal prosecutor. Recently there was a legislative amendment, which was approved by fellow Members who were already here in the previous legislature. We did not, we abstained. Mr Dierick made a statement on this at the time in committee. The powers of the FANC inspectors were recently reduced. They had the authority of a judicial police officer, but Mrs Milquet has decided to take that power away from them. What does this new constellation mean on the ground? Can the FANC inspectors who have to investigate the nuclear dimension of the story on the ground still do what they need to do? So much for my questions at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u16	Mr President, I will be very brief. It is at such times that we welcome the fact that, at the time of its creation, we gave the Federal Nuclear Control Agency independence from both producers and political actors, i.e. governments. Indeed, the pressures and concerns will come – if they are not already present – on both sides: Electrabel will undoubtedly want to extend and profitable its power stations, while the government could, for example, ask for changes to the timetable. My question concerns the 10-year revisions. For Doel 1 and Doel 2, they have been planned in order to be able to close these plants safely and safely in 2015; for the other two, Tihange 1 and Doel 4, the closure is scheduled for 2025 after their 10-year revisions. Now there is a problem with the timing of these revisions. Is it possible and has you been asked to change these ten-year revisions, or even their nature? If so, how do you intend to determine the security elements? Is there authority to change the 10-year review schedule? If so, under what conditions? In what context? I refer here to both the power stations that have to close down and those that will remain in office until 2025. One last thought or question about Electrabel. When we met at the time of the cracks and at other times, Electrabel was very present. A representative of the company came, you had conducted your analyses, you had both intervened, you were before the commission: Electrabel spoke about his analyses, his prospects and his prospects. That is why we are now astonished by the silence, including with regard to you, of Electrabel. Do you have an explanation for this change in attitude, strategy? Is that agreed with you? Is this a personal initiative of Electrabel that will require that we address this company directly to know the reason for this amazing silence today?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u17	Mr President, I welcome the great interest. There's something I need to clarify. I may not have been clear enough about what Electrabel told me yesterday. Several people seem to have understood that the full package of results has been given, but that is not the case. Electrabel has told us what it has done during the summer and how far it is. Such a test is rather complicated: one has to make a sample, extract it from a block and irradiate it in a reactor. Then the monster becomes highly radioactive, which means that one can no longer manipulate it, but has to work with telemanipulators in enclosed spaces. Those are things that take a lot of time. Tensile and fracture tests shall then be carried out on the samples. However, these tests are all still ongoing. The whole package of results is therefore not yet available. The tests were organized in such a way that some could be carried out as quickly as possible. From these first, preliminary results one examines what other tests can be done. The only thing that is already clear is that a number of slopes that existed in April when the phenomena were noted can be excluded. At that time, they really did not know what had happened and what the possibilities were. There were a lot of different slopes at the time: is the problem due to the way of testing, is it the BR2 reactor, is it the way of testing? However, there is not enough information yet to determine which phenomenon is occurring. So there is certainly no hurray mood because all the tests are in. Until last week, we did not even see a state of affairs. Now we have that and we know where the other activities are heading. They were told to get the test results straight away. I do not think there is already a solid document that can be handed over to us. A tip of the veil was lifted, but a lot of work is still in progress to carry out the tests, to interpret them and to connect them. There were a few questions about international security standards. The International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna has directives on the security of nuclear power plants. We are, of course, implementing these guidelines. The turbine is not located in the nuclear zone, but still falls within the competence of the FANC. In this respect, the Belgian Parliament has acted proactively. In 2011, some laws and royal decrees were passed to better organise security, giving the FANC some additional powers in this area. It also fits in with the protection of critical infrastructures. Other critical infrastructure for our country which has absolutely nothing to do with nuclear energy or energy supplies is under another jurisdiction. It has specifically included the electronuclear groups and it has been said that the FANC also has the power to do so. As for safety, it is always the operator responsible for security in the first line. It is an internationally recognised principle that the operator must demonstrate the safety of his installations and that the public authorities must monitor them. It's not the other way around. The FANC shall not assume that responsibility from the operator. An operator shall remain the first responsible for both the safety and the security of its installations. A question has been asked about peer review. We have regular contact with our international colleagues. There is a group of the different European regulators, which meets several times a year about security and exchanges information. Then I come to the questions about the Long-Term Operation of Tihange 1 and Target 2. For Tihange 1, the commitment was that a number of works would take place before the 40th anniversary, i.e. before 1 October of next year. The fact that these works have been postponed from September and October of this year to the summer of next year is fully in line with that commitment. So we have no problem with that. What about Objective 1 and Objective 2? The file on what needs to be done to improve the design was parallel for Tihange 1 and Objectives 1 and 2. The study on what had to be done was completed in 2012. However, it was put away when it became clear that Objectives 1 and 2 would close. That file can be retrieved. What has not happened for Goed, and for Tihange, are the practical effects, such as detailed studies on engineering and orders. There were some questions about the fuel. I won't give you a course in nuclear physics. The fuel is depleted by operation. This exhaustion is compensated first by increasing the reactivity in the core, e.g. by removing boric acid and by working with the control rods. Another effect arises when the reactor's power is reduced slightly. Then there will be some reactivity. What is also routinely done in a normal cycle is, in the last month before reloading, to reduce the power by as much as 10 percent in order to use the fuel optimally. That's what's gonna happen now. In the last month, or in the last six weeks, the potential of Objective 1 and Objective 2 will be gradually reduced to about 90 percent. There's no danger that the power would fall too early at 0. Rather, the opposite is true. If there were a stop for some reason, there could be more energy left and one could theoretically run even longer. Premature exhaustion will not happen. As for the date of commissioning of Doel 4, it depends on the work to be carried out on the turbine. We do not have the legal and technical skills to judge them. We have to rely on what the turbine specialists of Electrabel say. With my experience, the work could be completed in December, if there are no pitfalls along the way, no manufacturing problems and if everyone puts the necessary priority there. With regard to the deadlines for Doel 1 and 2, if we decide to extend the deadline, the principles of what is to be carried out have been established. But all this needs to be implemented with detailed engineering studies, to carry out the orders. I have no idea how many months or years this will take. This is not calculated in weeks. About Objective 3 and Tihange 2 we are indeed putting together our expert panel. We have already contracted a number of people for this. It is similar to the exercise of three years ago, with a panel of experts. In 2012 we really had to scan the whole horizon. Since the problem is now much more defined and we really know what we need to look for, we are restricting ourselves to many more specialised people. A number of people will be the same, but there will also be other people involved. How long will it take for our opinion to be delivered? That's a little bit of a cup of coffee. I certainly won't pin myself on a fixed date. We want a sound result. Would we ask any additional questions? It's possible. Will we immediately be satisfied with the work of Electrabel? That's possible, too. The time for these tests is not expressed in days. It will be a few months earlier. The reduction of the revision of Tihange 1 was indeed decided by Electrabel. We have, together with them, reviewed the list of planned works and looked at whether the works that we wanted to postpone would create direct problems for safety, supervision or commitments. If these works happen before 1 October 2015, they will be fully committed. Cases falling within normal annual or eighteen-monthly surveillance are now being carried out during the stop. Are the results of Objective 3 and Tihange 2 available to us now sufficient? Definitely not. They give an indication of what people are doing. The other results have yet to come in this year, and they still need to be interpreted and evaluated. Some 20 reactors such as Objective 3 and Tihange 2 were produced by the same company in neighbouring countries. They were all informed three years ago of the problems that existed. Either the reactors in Europe have already been closed down or a study has been carried out to determine whether hydrogen flakes are present. No hydrogen flakes were detected. With regard to security at Doel 4, the big problem is that when an act of malice is committed, one must try to look into the head of the person who commits it. People working in power stations receive a safety certificate issued by the National Security Authority. But, along the way, they can change their mind by hiding possible malicious intentions and act at some point. It's always very difficult to look in someone's head. We are taking additional steps, the most visible of which is to call for at least two interventions. Does this avoid any risk? No, obviously: two people can also cooperate to commit an act of malice. Finally, there is no limit, but it increases the barrier. That's all we can do. If we install a two-metre fence, they'll bring a two-metre-fifty ladder. If it's a three-metre fence, they'll come with a three-metre-fifty ladder. Their attempts can be made more and more difficult, so that they ultimately find it unnecessary to commit such an act. I have already given my comment on power plants in Europe. I also talked about fuel for Doel 1 and 2. With regard to their technical extension, if we develop an investment programme, it is possible – but we have to see how long the installation time would be. As for the timing of the seven power stations, it is a matter of better judgment. It is neither Electrabel nor ourselves who can give you guarantees in this regard. The lid of Tihange 3 and Doel 4 represents a completely different phenomenon. There are also cracks, but there is no similarity. In this lid, there are drilled penetrations in which the control bars and instrumentation are placed. It is especially in France that we have discovered signs of cracks, which we can try to repair. However, the best solution is to replace the lid in its entirety. This has been done in several French power plants. We are therefore following the normal course of what is practiced in the nuclear industry. Sixty-five thousand liters is indeed a lot. However, it should be noted that this was not a leak. Sixty thousand litres of oil are needed to fill all the lubricating circuits of the turbine. We did a risk analysis and found, a few years ago, that this oil could catch fire. It is an oil at a relatively high temperature which, if ignited, 65,000 litres, represents a high calorific load, with limited means of extinction. A solution to reduce the risk of fire is to evacuate this oil, when on fire, to an underground tank outside the engine room. It's an exercise that's done manually. In the event of a fire, a valve must be opened that is locked, locked, etc. Every effort is made to ensure that this valve never opens. The aim is to ensure that firefighters are able to open it quickly in the event of a fire. It is therefore a compromise between, on the one hand, the risk of fire in the engine room if kept and, on the other hand, the risk of losing the lubrication of the turbine, which would require repairs to the turbine. Now I come to the question of timing for Target 3 and Tihange 2. The results will come in drop by drop in autumn, after which they will have to be evaluated. We need to examine them. Honestly, I don't think those power stations will be online this year. I don't think we'll have to count on it for the winter. Een Engels spreekwoord luidt: “Prepare for the worst, hope for the best.” I therefore hope that it will be better, but I fear that we cannot rely on it too hard. When I spoke of safety margins, I made this general comment: every time we design a nuclear power plant, we include margins for unforeseen cases. When unanticipated cases materialize, we scratch a little on these margins. It is also the regulator's role to ensure that these margins are not scratched too much. It is a global philosophy of the design of a nuclear power plant. I have already given examples of security measures. Could Doel 3 and Tihange 2's problems be insurmountable? Yes, that's a possibility. It is not guaranteed that these plants will restart. If there is a problem, if there is no way to make a safety file that ensures that it can work safely, they will have to stop permanently. There may still be some replacement tracks for the reactor tank. It would be a world first, it has never been done. I think it's a very interesting project for an engineer! For a financier, it's probably a little less interesting! A few questions were asked about the representativeness of the samples and the alignment of the cracks. These are issues that we discussed at length two years ago when they emerged. Indeed, the orientation of the cracks is parallel to the axis of the tank, which makes them less dangerous. But that doesn't mean they're completely innocent. As far as the samples are concerned, we did not do the tests on the steel of the tank itself, we looked for a very similar metal part, with the same properties. But it is true that it is not exactly the same. Is security proactive? Yes. Indeed, in 2011, fairly far-reaching decisions and laws were taken to increase the security of nuclear power plants. There was also a demand for the role of nuclear inspectors, which was adapted at the beginning of this year. They have clearly played their part here. It is important that a finding by a nuclear inspector still has the force of proof. It weighs harder. I'm on the legal ground right now and I might be making some nuance errors, but there's an evidentiary document and an ordinary document as a witness. If a nuclear inspector, as we have thirty-five of them, makes a record, it has the power of proof to the contrary, as opposed to an ordinary testimony. That's effective. We're working with the parquet for that. The investigating judge has also appointed us experts in his research, to complete it completely. The operator slides with his deadlines and the market has the right to know. That is not a question you should ask me: market control is not for me, I am concerned with safety and security. You have to ask other people that question. With regard to changing the nature of the 10-year revisions, it would possibly be the case for Doel 1 and 2 if their lifespan were to be extended further, which is a very extraordinary case since it does not fall within the current legal framework. For Tihange 1, it's a time shift. The nature remains the same and the commitments made are maintained. There is therefore no danger there. As to why Electrabel is not here, it is better to ask Electrabel, as you have already suggested. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u18	Mr Bens, that seems to me to be the case. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that you ask your supplementary questions very punctually. After all, now is not the time for a debate. Additional questions can be asked, but very short and punctual.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u19	Mr President, I am somewhat hungry for explanations of the results of the micro-crack tests. Mr Bens, at the end of your speech, you said that no solution could be found and the two reactors could remain permanently shut down. But, between waiting for results and making such a decision, you do not clearly define the path and the possibilities for results. That was the subject of my question. In fact, what could be done in practice depending on the nature of the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u20	Mr President, Mr Bens, I have another question about physical security and the royal decision. Now the four-eye principle has been introduced. Shouldn't that have been a fact much earlier? The Royal Decree stipulates that the operator must use all means and methods and do everything necessary to ensure physical security. I think that principle should have been a fact by now, shouldn't it? Mr Bens, I would like to make a second point in order to avoid misunderstood me. Evident, you don't have to worry about market participants' investment plans. However, I can imagine that you do not find the current situation pleasant or pleasant either. Over the past twenty-six months, you and your employees have been confronted with a new timing each time because of the operator. That's how long these problems have been dragging on. So you should not be concerned with market practices, but it would be logical for you, as a nuclear control agency, to demand clarity and results at some point. If you do not get those results, can you not say that it has been enough, that enough has been played with your feet? So far my questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u21	Mr President, I did not have an answer to my question about the tests for AIB-Vinçotte. Has AIB-Vinçotte performed any tests well? If so, why not disclose them?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u22	Mr President, as regards the way forward for the results of micro-cracks, we want two answers. We want to know what physical phenomenon caused this non-hardening embryontly, as we say in jargon, so the difference between what we saw and what the theory predicted. We need a clear physical explanation on this point. If we do not know why this is happening in this way, we do not agree to restart. That's very clear. The other clear result we want is a safety assessment file, a study that determines – with the characteristics of the tanks that are much better specified – that the tanks will hold in the event of an accident. These are the two fundamental questions to be answered by Electrabel. Mr Calvo, the KB on physical security is being implemented. Many improvements have been made on the various sites, not only at the nuclear power stations but also in Mol-Dessel and Fleurus, since the KB was issued. We are talking about timing here, because we are talking about significant investments. All this will be monitored on a regular basis. A number of investments are still ongoing. It is quite clear that the timing of Electrabel is not pleasant for us. The fingers of our experts itch to fly in, to have the data and to carry out their analyses. It's also that frustration that came up in last weekend's interview. However, we do not have a legal basis for demanding these results. The licence for these plants was issued at the time and it is actually up to the operator to decide on the operationalisation. If they want to become operational, we have to approve it. If the operator does not have a problem with keeping his installations stationary, then it is difficult for us as a safety authority to comment on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u23	The formal aspect may be a little unclear, but I thought you'd temporarily withdrawn the permit?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u24	Our nuclear inspectors have written a regulation to prevent them from starting without our approval. That is not quite the same as formally withdrawing the licence, because that is a rather lengthy procedure which must ultimately be carried out by a royal decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u25	You could have written a similar regulation for the deadline for additional results?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u26	How does this help public health? How does this protect people?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u27	This is important for the functioning of the FANC and for our energy supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u28	I come to the question concerning AIB-Vinçotte. AIB-Vinçotte, they are specialists in non-destructive examinations, whose method of going to see the characteristics, the defects of the vats. In my memory, since these assessments were made two years ago, it seems to me that the final report was published. I'm a little surprised by your question. I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u29	Thank you, Mr Bens, for your explanations and for the answers to our questions. I believe that we can leave it at that as far as security is concerned and that it is high time we deal with the supply aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u30	Madame la présidente, Mr President, honourable members of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, first of all we would like to thank you very much for this invitation which, on the one hand, allows Elia to explain the analysis she has carried out over the last few weeks on security of supply for this and upcoming winters in Belgium. On the other hand, it also allows us to explain exactly what Elijah's role is in terms of security of supply. You have received a file containing documents. Among them you will find a presentation and a more technical text detailing the slides that will be projected to you. First of all, a small word about the role of the system operator. Elia has a central role in the energy transition. Elia is responsible for the management and development of the infrastructure, for the management of the system, for the issue of security of supply and for the management of the balance on the network, for a balance between injection on the network and the reduction of the network 24 hours a day in the Belgian control area. This task is under pressure today because of the challenges on the right of the slide, in particular the integration of renewable energy, whose production is much less predictable and much more volatile. That puts pressure on the system's operation. Elia is therefore responsible for the overall balance in the control zone between injection and reduction and can appeal to reserves if the balance can no longer be guaranteed. Those reserves contract Elijah with the market players. Elia recently received a new task that was registered in the law, namely the strategic reserve. For this, a volume is decided by the Minister. Elia then contracts that volume on the market. It is also Elia who will activate the strategic reserve in cases of scarcity. In addition to system management, Elia also takes care of network management. Elia makes the grid available for the transport of electricity. An important point in the discussion on security of supply is the provision of interconnections and the expansion of interconnection capacity. The federal government's role in security of supply is first of all the equipment plan, i.e. looking at the adequacy of means of production, import capacity on one side, and consumption on the other. If there is a mismatch, then the federal government can intervene and take action, such as, for example, the call for tenders for the construction of new gas-fired power plants and the establishment of the strategic reserve. If the crisis procedure and contingency plan are to be initiated, the government may take measures to raise awareness or reduce consumption. Suppliers, of course, play a key role in this, because they have to ensure, first and foremost, the balance between their production and the decline of their customers. They manage their own portfolio of production and purchase. They therefore play a crucial role, and they must be first and foremost sensitised so that their portfolio remains in balance. If there is any doubt about this, as in the current circumstances, they should be encouraged and given an incentive to examine with their customers whether there are opportunities for demand management and, where appropriate, the interruption of the decline in order to restore balance in the short term. Frank Vandenberghe will give a further explanation of the incentive we have proposed together with the CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u31	Let me give you a brief overview of how Elia estimates the situation in the production park today. Within the total production capacity of 20 000 megawatts in Belgium, three groups of plants were regularly discussed. So that's part of the daily production park. There are the old classic steam plants built before the nuclear era, Ruien and Les Awirs, accounting for 900 megawatts. Why do we still mention it? They were employed in the winter of 2012-2013. Now they're out of the service. We will try to compare the period 2012-2013 with today. The fact that the 900 megawatts of Ruien and Les Awirs are no longer there has its relevance in comparing the winter of 2012-2013 with the situation today. They were still in reserve then, not anymore. The evolution of the nuclear sector has been explained in detail by Jan Bens, so I should not go into that further. Then there is the whole group of gas plants with about 4 400 megawatts. Why do we mention it? There has been a lot of announcements about this group of gas plants in the press. The government measures, such as the extension of the date of notice for these deployments and the introduction of strategic reserves, allow us to assume this winter that the quasi-totality of this park will be in service, with the exception of the Vilvoorde plant, the conversion of which began. This plant would be included in the strategic reserves if necessary. That's what she offered. That would be a capacity reduction of about 120 megawatts. Those are the three relevant groups. On the nuclear agenda, I'm not going into any more detail. We know what we are missing today: a good 3 000 megawatts. From the centrally controlled classical production we have lost about one third of the central capacity for this winter, certainly until the return of Objective 4. Of course, that is not all there is to production capacity in Belgium. These are the basic elements from which we compare with the winter of 2012-2013. On the next slide you can see the movements that have happened compared to that winter. As you can see, on certain days in January, without a persistent cold wave, we have experienced critical moments. I can say the following about renewable energy and cogeneration. During the winter of 2012-2013, we built wind turbines, installed photovoltaic panels. On average, there is an increase of 1,800 MW between the two winters. Most of these injections are in the distribution networks. They're not managed by Elia. We don't know them in detail. These are the estimates we have. On the other hand, we are losing the 900 MW from the conventional steam plants I have just mentioned, which were on reserves, and which could have started in the winter of 2012-2013, if a large wave of cold had been produced. We also lost Doel 3 and Tihange 2, but, in addition, 1,000 MW in nuclear power plants and gas plants. We're almost at a comparable level. There is only the redevelopment of the Vilvorde plant which will cause about 220 MW to lose, and if the redevelopment is not completed before winter, we will lose all the plants during the redevelopment period, 3,800 MW. There is only the 500 MW of echogenic biomass that are reasonably controllable like conventional power plants, although we did not control them centrally. We lost about 2,000 MW compared to this winter in terms of controllable power when there is no wind or sun. Obviously these moments do not represent the fullness of time. To make an estimate of security of supply, it is not a good exercise to stack production powers, and then to give a reduction coefficient for photovoltaic, for wind energy, for what is in the distribution and what is not controlled, and then to compare it with the tip. This does not seem to us to be a good working method in the context of a park with a lot of renewables. We use probability methods that are also included in current security of supply legislation. I'm going to go back to these concepts but I'm going to deal first with import capacity. The import of electricity is Elijah's responsibility, but also the development and construction of that grid is Elijah's responsibility. In this respect, we believe that there is a need for clarification. We have tried, in the attached note, to explain in two to three pages the problems of import capacity. On this slide you will see a simplified example. The starting point of the input capacity is shown in the tables on the website. In the winter it is usually a total of 3 500 megawatts that may vary slightly, of which 1 400 are at the north border and 2 100 are at the south border. We are not yet connected with Great Britain or Germany, so we have two electrical borders. These 1 400 and 2 100 constitute a total of 3 500 megawatts. That could suggest that we can only buy 1 400 megawatts in the Netherlands. If that were the case, we would be in a really bad position. The market mechanism on the spot market, which is called the CWE market coupling, allows traders to exchange their electricity in the cloud when they have access to that market, to use both our north and southern borders to purchase the electricity available in Europe. This means that we have to take the sum of these two capacities - the south and the north borders - in order to know how much electricity we can buy at maximum. In prolonged periods of great cold, there is almost nothing to buy in France. It is well known that the French aim at autonomy, not export in times of great cold. So we'll have to buy energy in northern Germany or the Netherlands. The diagram shown on the slide shows the flows around Belgium. It is obviously not Elia who buys, because it is not an importing body. It transports energy purchased by market players. They buy 3,500 MW in the North, either from the Netherlands or the Scandinavian countries via the Nordnet cable, or even from the UK via the Britnet cable, or from Germany. These megawatts arrive in Belgium, roughly as follows: 2,600/2,700 MW by the North and the rest by the South. What is important in this scheme is that the 2,600/2,700 MW constitute the technical maximum of capacity on our northern border. Could it have been higher? Already eight or nine years ago, we launched the project called "Brabo". We obtained the construction permits in 2011. Almost immediately after obtaining those permits, the legal basis for those permits was destroyed by the Council of State. So we are now in a new process. A second Brabo project was launched. Meanwhile, we have found a possibility, when Target 1 and 2 stop and so when we lose 1 000 megawatts of production in 2015, to bring 1 000 megawatts into the country by that item. This means that a few months after the end of Objectives 1 and 2 we can get around 1 000 megawatts more import capacity via the northern border, we expect by mid 2016. That 2 600 will thus be 3 600 to 3 700 megawatts by mid 2016. The total import capacity will increase from 3 500 to 4 500 megawatts. This is very important, because without this import capacity we cannot survive the winter in Belgium. Now there is also capacity free on the southern border. At the southern border the potential import capacity is increased, while at the southern border only 875 megawatts are imported. Now, that greater capacity at the southern border is merely a hypothesis, because we know that we cannot count on the French. If we were to buy electricity in France, that electricity would not even enter the southern border. If we buy electricity in France, they will in turn purchase it from the Swiss and the Swiss from the Germans, which would increase our northern border. That is the schedule that we must count on as a starting point for winter. Now let me take the production park and the import capacity together. According to the probabilistic standard laid down by the law, we can calculate security of supply. That standard stipulates that in an average winter we can find three hours a year in the calculations on which the system cannot be fed in its entirety. In a very severe winter, once every twenty years, the system cannot be fed in its entirety for twenty hours. That prescribes the norm. We calculate this using thousands of simulations with different temperatures, wind profiles, sun profiles, different likely defects and so on. For example, nuclear groups of 1,000 megawatts also fail several times in winter without incident, according to average statistics. We must then miss that capacity for one or two days. All these things are charged in that model, which brings us to the results of the probability. This is the result announced by Secretary of State Fonck a few days ago and published in the press. If we adopt this rather strict scenario, we must assume that all maintenance in large power stations will be removed for the entire winter period. That's not obvious. Mr Bens said that the nuclear groups would be at risk of getting into trouble in the coming winter. It is not yet settled, it has yet to be discussed, but it is not evident to say that there will be no maintenance in winter. A second hypothesis is that we are counting on the 3,500 megawatt purchase from neighbouring countries to be made at any time of winter when necessary. As a third hypothesis, we assume that the 850 megawatts of strategic reserves will be employed. That's still in preparation. The tenders are there, the procedures are running at the CREG and so on, but that has not yet been definitively concluded. Still, there are several scenarios. A winter with Target 4, but without Tihange 2 and Target 3 gives us five hours. Five hours is not that far from the norm. Thanks to the action programme which takes account of the strategic reserve and other issues such as the shifting of winter maintenance, which is not now decided, but already in April or May of this year, we get to five hours in an average winter, or in a severe winter to 29 hours. That is quite close to the standards of three and twenty hours. With additional demand-limiting measures, the standard is not far away, provided, of course, that the 3 500 megawatts are available. Without Objective 4, the figures communicated by the press apply. Then we arrive at 49 hours and 116 hours. In reliability terms, this means that we are quite far from the standard for a certain supply of electricity. This is an estimate. Forty-nine hours does not mean forty-nine hours apart, but a few hours on the twenty coldest winter days. It depends. They're averages. You know that averages never match reality itself. That's what we could expect from the band. If we had the 116 hours, we would be at risk of longer interruptions of potentially more than two or three hours. Of course, we are not going to sit down. Action plans have already been launched before we were aware of the failure of Objective 4. These action plans were launched together with the FPS Economy, the CREG and the minister's cabinet to get the system within safe limits as much as possible. A few more things about the coming winters if Doel 4 comes back. You could see that Doel 4 is relatively close to standards, provided nothing else happens and the assumptions come true. We must not forget, however, several elements that are relevant for the coming winters: there are Doel 1 and Doel 2 as well as the numerous announcements of the decommissioning of gas-fired power plants. Should this entire park be integrated into strategic reserves? Or will the operators review their strategy given the absence of Doel 3 and Tihange 2? It's an open question. A very important issue for the future is the 3,500 MW. We are very often in contact with neighbours and we believe that if nothing serious happens, we will be able to buy these 3,500 MW via the North this winter. The Dutch also shut down gas power plants. The examples are known. The spare feet are decreasing there, too. The 3500 megawatt is a hypothesis that Elijah has always said, including in our studies, that it must be revalidated every year. We are not yet discussing the issue on which our German fellow Members are dealing with the European Commission, namely a possible gas crisis. So there are difficulties with the permits. Even if we ban all maintenance from the winter, we may be in difficulties in spring or autumn. Then at that time there will be an accumulation of maintenance programs that can raise the LOLE again during those hours. I would like to comment briefly on one of the actions of the action plan already taken in April in consultation with the various partners concerned to ensure the supply of electricity. It is about Elijah's famous imbalance rate, which has received a lot of attention in recent years. The imbalance rate doesn't fall out of the sky. At the end of Objective 3 and Tihange 2 and when launching the project around the strategic reserves, we have already considered measures, together with the CREG, in consultation with our network users. For this there is a special consultative body, the Elia Users Group. After a procedure with the CREG and a consultation procedure on our website, it has been decided that in periods of scarcity the imbalance rate of Elia would be 4 500 euros per megawatt hour if certain scarcity criteria were met. What does that mean? You can see it schematically proposed here. The left column represents the production and import together, for the simplicity consisting of two market parties or wholesalers A and B, supplemented by reserves of Elia. On the right hand side, the consumption of Elia does not, of course, distribute between the two market players to final consumers. Market party B in the scheme has a shortage of production and will therefore have to pay a non-balance rate of 4 500 euros per megawatt hour for the difference between its injection and its reduction. Will that increase the price of electricity? No, it's a zero-sum game. In that case, market participant A will have a surplus and will collect the EUR 4 500. The portion deployed by Elijah's reserves will also receive Elijah through the imbalance rate. There are clear agreements in Elijah's tariffs that such returns are followed very closely with the CREG and go back to the rates. We believe that this has created a very strong incentive, especially for all industrial consumers, because they have 15 minutes. This means that, during the periods of application of this tariff, they will be able to record their consumption very carefully and thus take account of their supplier. It is, of course, about a strong incentive of half a euro per kilowatt hour. In households, the direct implementation of such incentives would result in the transfer of a wash from a crisis moment to a weekend of about 10 to 15 euros. Due to the lack of smart meters, we cannot implement this directly. I would like to come back to the shutdown plan that was discussed with the governors this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u32	A word about the release plan. I was able to see that the plan was published in the newspapers and discussed this morning with the governors and the Secretary of State, Ms. Fonck, and Minister Wathelet. What happens if all the actions we have just mentioned prove to be insufficient, i.e. if the volume of the strategic reserve is insufficient and the measures to raise awareness of a consumption limitation fail to meet the target? There is still the ultimate use of the release plan. Why this final remedy? To avoid the total collapse of the network, i.e. the blackout that is often referred to, with serious consequences for the entire European network. The website indicates that, during the winter, follow-up work will work with fires: a green light when the situation is normal, a yellow light when the volume of strategic reserves is sufficient but nevertheless requires activation, an orange light when the volume of strategic reserves is unsatisfactory and the measures of awareness and consumption limitation do not allow the desired goal to be achieved, and a red light if it becomes necessary to implement the clearance plan. This morning it was also explained what such a switch-off plan looks like. Belgium was divided into six geographical zones for the purpose of implementing the closure plan. The load to be switched off is based on selected high voltage stations for a total load of 3 000 megawatts. So it's about posts that can be switched off manually or automatically. This automation is built in because the injection of these posts can not only be stopped in the event of scarcity, but also in the case of sudden phenomena, such as major incidents or imbalances on the net. The grid can automatically shut down certain zones to protect itself. What is the procedure for implementing the emergency plan? It is Elijah as a network manager who will first detect the period or the problem of scarcity seven days in advance on the basis of its planning and exchange with neighbouring countries. It can also be done on the basis of ARPS, the balance responsible supplier who reports that he has a problem with his portfolio and that he cannot guarantee the balance between the clients of the injection and the purchase of the product in his portfolio. It is Elijah who detects this, who should inform the Minister and tell us what import and production capacity will be missing in Belgium in the coming days. On the basis of this information, the Minister may impose measures, such as awareness campaigns and a reduction in consumption. If it turns out that this is not working, it is the Minister who is forcing the exit plan to be put into effect and who informs the citizens of it. Elia has the role of detection and of triggering the shutdown plan. We have created a Q & A on the website that answers the most common questions. From the winter, which starts with us from 1 November, you can find on our website www.winterklaar.be the various lights I have talked about.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u33	I thank the speakers for this presentation. We will proceed in the same way as for AFCN.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u34	Madam President, I would like to thank the people of Elijah for the presentation, which gives a good picture of what we are looking at today, at least for this winter. When we look at these cases, I think it's important to see further. When I look at it all that way, I think that especially the next five to seven years will be crucial. We know that building new power stations is not going very fast: if we make the decision today and the plant runs within five years, then we have worked very well. At the same time, there are a number of questions about interconnection capacity. It talks about getting Brabo operational by 2016. Let's hope we're heading in that direction. On all other forms of interconnection, data are usually stuck towards 2018 and 2019. Then we are talking about projects that are well on schedule and should not be delayed. In terms of interconnection capacity, we also need to look a little more broadly. There is the question of whether the 1 000 megawatts will be added to the north side to ensure that we can pick up some capacity there, but on the other hand the big question is whether that capacity is there. If we are currently following the debates in the neighbouring countries and we are looking at the United Kingdom, France and Germany, then we can see that decisions are being taken in all these countries on the implementation of a capacity market. This is not usually done when there are large surpluses in the winter. I can even tell you whether I am right in saying that in France, when they talk about their capacity mechanisms, even across borders, they are looking at the possibility of also contracting volumes with us in order to provide France with capacity in winter, knowing that we are not doing very well today. If we look at that, also to other TSOs that follow the case closely, will that capacity still be there? Can we take the risk of simply looking at interconnection capacity? It's not because the capacity is there, that there is also flowing through the lines. A second question arises. If we want to get electricity from the north, we can do so for a long time up to the technical capacity at the Dutch border. Then we get a flux flow through the south. I thought the capacity at the border between Germany and France was about 2 000 megawatts. However, for some reason we cannot make use of it, or we cannot get full capacity from the border with France to us. Does this have to do with the classic story that the internal capacity to go from north to south in Germany is relatively low? Or are there other matters on the agenda? Are there any solutions? There is talk everywhere about increasing technical capacity, but we know that the transformers that ensure the transition between the transmission network and the distribution network are now cutting into the reserves now and then, so that they can have a little more capacity for as long as they can. Can we apply this technique now? In the other case, if there is a problem in one of the major transitions, it will also have to be switched off. In short, is there any technical possibility of increasing capacity here, if there is sufficient capacity in Germany to get the power to the south border? Is there also capacity assistance between the TSO's assistance? What can we expect from that? Can we use this help, or can we only do so in terms of balancing the grid? Maybe you could give me more information about that? Speaking of balancing the grid, I would like to talk about introducing emergency groups. This is a very important problem. I understand that there is an offer of emergency groups that can be integrated into the network, but that there are technical difficulties and that there are questions about standards. Is that effective? Are there any emergency groups that can't be connected yet? How can we solve this problem? Finally, can you give us an insight into the decreasing capacity in conventional power stations over the next few years? We are now talking about the next five to seven years. The first three years have been seen, I believe. We know that CHP will disappear and that other conventional power stations will disappear. This too must be taken into account in view of the decisions we are trying to take to limit or exclude the risks for the coming winter and for the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u35	Madam President, I thank our two interlocutors for the clarity of their presentation. Today, it is clear that taking into account the entire production stock, including intermittent production increases, there are 2,000 MW less than we had at our disposal to spend the winter of 2012-2013. However, on 17 January 2013, we had problems of shortage. There is therefore cause for concern in the event of a severe winter for this year. You have quoted between 20 and 40 days with cuts ranging from 2 to 4 hours a day: this is relatively worrying in a modern country, which is not used to having such power cuts. I regret that the image of our country is handicapped by these problems. This could cool down future investors. I also note that next winter the situation will be even more precarious since Doel 1 and Doel 2 should be closed as well as gas-fired power plants. If we don't change things, the situation will only get worse. I have several questions to ask you. I want you to clarify what you said about Brabo. If I understood correctly, if Doel 1 and Doel 2 were to close down, it would be very easy to put another 1000 MW back through Brabo's new formula. With regard to the flexibility of demand, you said that the penalty of €4,500 per megawatt/hour would not have an impact on tariffs. Can you specify how you intend to apply this penalty? Who will pay for it and who will be responsible for it? With regard to the development of smart grids, while about 100 megawatts are present in the strategic reserve, there are already mechanisms for demand control through aggregators. Would it not be cheaper to favour these aggregators in order to reduce energy consumption, on a voluntary and lower cost basis, rather than developing smart grids? The European Commission's studies are eloquent in this respect. What do you think about these two consumer control mechanisms? Do you think that the measures of the current government are sufficient to avoid the release plan? In the medium term, at the dawn of future winters, do you think that the current measures will be sufficient or will they need to be increased? I have recently read several statements on liability in the event of discharge. Who will pay any compensation that will have to be granted to those who have suffered an adverse economic impact? Farmers were mentioned, but businesses and citizens could also be involved. Who bears final responsibility for this possible activation of the release plan, so that any allowances are paid? Finally, with regard to information to the municipalities in the event of a discharge plan, what means are being used to assist the municipalities which will be in the first discharge tranche? I see on the website of the newspaper Le Soir that all the communes are displayed online. Compared to last year's release plan, which I had also posted on my website, I see some small changes. Is tranche 1 the one where electricity will be cut first? The newspaper Le Soir asserts the opposite. I wonder if there's any problem in their article. (...): Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u36	Indeed, that would be more logical. My commune would indeed remain in the first phase of relief. Otherwise, we'd suddenly become the last ones we'd cut off electricity from. You confirm to me that slice 1 will be the first. This information will have to be corrected on the website.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, in two weeks' time, the governors and the Minister of the Interior will be heard by this committee. They will explain the implementation of the relief plan, particularly for local elected officials. Let's talk about Elia's skills now.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u38	Madam President, I would, of course, like to thank both speakers for their presence and their presentation. We have received very useful documents. Everything was presented very quickly, but this seems to me to be a good reference work that can be looked at in depth afterwards. It is a good thing that there is ultimately clarity about the exit plan. Over the past few weeks, there has been a lot to do in the media. Both the companies, the mayors and the agricultural and horticultural sectors have asked a lot of questions. It is therefore a good thing that the plan was finally communicated. We all hope, of course, that we will not need the exit plan and that all other measures will be taken to avoid it. The plan was presented to the governors today. They will then introduce it to the mayors. We have already received some calls from mayors asking whether or not their city or city will be disbanded. I can imagine that there will be a lot more questions. Is the exit plan final or not for the coming winter? Can changes be made at the request of certain authorities? It would be good to clarify that. I also welcome the fact that you have prepared a Q & A for those who still have questions. This list will certainly be consulted frequently, because good information is crucial. I understand from your presentation that it is actually the Minister's job to inform the public. You detect, you have it investigated, and then it's the minister's job to inform the people. How will this happen in concrete terms? How and who will inform the Minister? You have probably made the necessary suggestions. Will this happen via the media or the mayors? There is a great deal of concern among entrepreneurs as well as farmers and horticulturalists. A sudden power cut will, of course, cause a lot of damage. It is a good thing that we are prepared and have a switch-off plan, but the question remains who is responsible for damage. Mr Clarinval also asked this question. Who is ultimately responsible if there is a shutdown? Some also ask very specific questions. Do you need to buy an emergency generator? Do we have to ensure that this is done? Can we be sure of that? These are all very specific questions to which no answers have yet been given. The question is also raised as to whether compensation is entitled if damage has been suffered. Who's gonna pay that fee? How will that be arranged? Will there be further consultations with the agricultural and horticultural sectors on their very practical questions? Is there going to be any further consultation with the entrepreneurs in a cut-off area? Or is this all over again? The documentation also refers to a measure that can be taken before the switch-off plan, namely to encourage people to use as little energy as possible. Are there simulations of this? What capacity can be saved by such awareness campaigns? How will this be implemented in practice? What is the best case and worst case scenario of energy saving? I also have a question about the financial stick, about the imbalance rate of EUR 4 500 per megawatt. What law is that legally based on? Where exactly did that amount come from? I can imagine that the producers are not very happy about that. Has there been any consultation with the producers on this matter? My concern is also that someone will have to pay that fine. This fine must not, of course, be passed on later in the electricity bill for families and businesses. Although you said in your explanatory statement that this cannot be done, I would have liked some clarification on this. Why can't this be done and what guarantees exist that the final consumer will not suffer from the imbalance rate? My final question concerns the emergency generators, which have already been mentioned. There has been a proposal on this in the media. At the last committee meeting, I asked Secretary of State Fonck whether the use of more emergency generators could be an essential solution. The Secretary of State rejected that proposal as being practical and technically not possible. However, I read in the newspapers that this is possible, because emergency generators would already be used at peak times. What's your vision on that? What possible solutions do you see for the coming winter?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u39	Madam President, Mr Vandenberghe, I too had a question about import capacity, but that question has already been explained in detail by Mr Wollants. What is the impact when problems arise in other countries, such as recently reported potential problems in the UK? I would have liked a little more explanation. To what extent is the import capacity certain? I also have a question about the role of the distribution system operator. To what extent is the distribution system operator involved in this data? First of all, I am referring to the production units, of which more and more are coming into our country. I am talking not only about sun and wind, but also about cogeneration in horticultural farms or manure processing in agricultural holdings. Were they included in the math you just showed? Are there incentives to encourage those farmers and horticulturalists to produce during the period in which they lie still, for example with the operators of greenhouses? Secondly, I am referring to the role of the distribution system operator in the shutdown plan. How can we actually see that? Does Elia execute that switch-off or does the distribution system operator have to shut down cabin by cabin for a few hours? Is it known in advance when it can be switched back on and is it done at once, or staged as well? I would have liked to have more details about that. I have a second question about the role of suppliers. You have a good incentive to encourage the supplier to maintain his balance and keep his supply and demand equal. You have the imbalance rate for that. However, you say that they too should agree with their customers on any adjustment along the demand side. Is that just to avoid the fine or are you trying to achieve energy savings in this way? Maybe it's about both. I have just understood that the closure plan will be discussed in detail in two weeks' time. What criteria were used for this? Can you tell us a little more about the concrete communication about this? I am also thinking of the medium term. We are talking about the coming winter, but after that there will be winters. Have any concrete measures been taken? You have just explained that there could be 1 000 megawatts more interconnection along the south side. To what extent do you already have a view of medium-term measures, such as licensing policy? Are there any contacts with the regions that are required to issue permits, while the federal government is required to issue a production permit?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u40	After all my fellow Members have already said, I have two specific questions. The first question concerns the strategic reserve. The share of demand side management in the strategic reserve is 100 megawatts, I understand. Is that right? How does Elijah estimate any increase in this? How does Elijah assess its potential? Is it possible to include public actors in that story? Does Elia think there's any way to do that? A second question concerns legal liability. We wonder how Elia estimates legal liability in the event of power interruptions. Which player is legally liable? Is that the supplier, the transmission system operator, the distribution sector or the federal government? That question lives with us, too. We understand that in the event of an unscheduled power cut of at least four hours, compensation can be claimed. We wonder what exactly an unscheduled power cut means.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u41	Madam President, Mr Vandenberghe, I would like to thank you and your colleague for coming. I would particularly like to thank you for coming, because I would not like to be in your shoes today. If energy policy in this country is not put on a new footing quickly, I think there is a good chance that the system operator will become a bottleneck profession in the very short term. I can imagine that there are more pleasant conditions to work than having to constantly talk about blackouts and how they can be avoided. For the colleagues who follow Twitter and the news sites a bit less, we have reached the absolute low point: the site that has to report about the blackout now also has a blackout. That can count as bad Belgian joke. As an illustration of the fact that energy policy in this country has reached an unacceptable low point, there can be no more concrete illustration than that. It is not your site, but that of the FPS Economy that is now flattened. My first comment is in the same spirit. I am very surprised that, at the moment, in terms of security of supply, Elijah is being looked at very closely, even to the extent that Mr Wilrycx has asked questions here that he should actually ask a Secretary of State for Energy. By sketching out the roles in the energy market, you have tried to do something about this, but I can only conclude that Elia must constantly do the dirty work at the moment, while security of supply and energy policy is not the responsibility of the network operator, but a political responsibility, a responsibility of the Minister of Energy. In this sense, I regret that our suggestion that Mrs Fonck be present today has not been addressed. However, two weeks ago, I had the impression that she found it particularly interesting to be able to function as Secretary of State in Parliament. A second point is in line with a comment I made during the exchange of views with Mr Bens. Target 3 and Tihange 2 have been shut down for 26 months. I can imagine that it would be quite annoying for you, as a network manager, not to have any clarity about this. The question to you is whether it would be interesting for a clear timing to be formulated. You cannot formulate that timing, because that is not your job, but it can be done by the Secretary of State for Energy or the Minister of the Interior. This would clarify the future of Objective 3 and Tihange 2. Thirdly, the strategic reserve. The Secretary of State said: with Objective 3 and Tihange 2 800 megawatt strategic reserve, without Objective 3 and Tihange 2 1 200 megawatt strategic reserve. It could not provide an estimate of the strategic reserve needed if Objective 4 were not to be used. When was the ambition formulated to extend the strategic reserve of 800 megawatts to 1 200 megawatts? When did you get the signal to work on that? That is an important question, because Objective 3 and Tihange 2 have been quiet longer than yesterday. It is interesting to confront this fact with the timing of the State Secretary's initiative in this area. Fourthly, we can see that the response to demand management is relatively limited at the moment. Do you have any idea why? What are the obstacles to increasing demand management within the strategic reserve beyond 100 megawatts? Fifth, Ruien and Les Awirs are not our energy future for the sake of clarity. However, I am not entirely clear what prevented them from being included in the strategic reserve only for a limited period of time, this winter, for example. Finally, I began by expressing the hope that energy policy in this country will soon be reinvigorated. The uncertainty that exists today for citizens and businesses is unacceptable. Elia, Ecolo-Green, as well as other colleagues, have launched the proposal for an energy pact as a lever for this new security. Elia made that call very clearly. I'm guessing you still think that call is a good idea? Then my question is what immediate role do you see Elia play in the run-up to such an energy pact, which we fervently hope will be on the table with Peeters and Michel? We also very much hope that the extension of old nuclear power stations will not be on the table with Peeters and Michel. So far, my questions and comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u42	I thank the speakers for the distribution of the documents and the very comprehensive presentation which has been made and which is a useful complement, contrary to what I have just heard, to the subjects which the Secretary of State and the Minister of the Interior commented extensively last week. The figures presented are identical to those mentioned on that occasion. It was possible, at that time, to answer all the questions. At this stage, it had not been agreed that the Secretary of State and the Minister should be present, but in a later phase to further supplement the information. As Mr Calvo said, a whole series of questions have been addressed to you when it does not seem that you are competent, among other things, for the information and for the way it will be disseminated, the President has also made a comment on this subject. We look forward to all this information, as we are local agents elsewhere. The company stated in Echo that it was wondering about the measures taken by suppliers to ensure that they could supply their customers well. You recalled that, of course, it was up to them that this was the task. Your CEO said: "We hear them very little today (the suppliers). I hope it's because they're looking at the measures they can take. (...) There are 3,000 MW/h of nuclear energy that have disappeared." I would have liked clarification on this, even if it is not up to you. Since the announcement of the imbalance tariff, have you been aware of any additional measures taken by suppliers to fulfil their obligations in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u43	Madam President, first of all, I would like to have confirmed what has been explained to us. If I understand correctly, according to your LOLE model, which I think bears his name badly, you guarantee us that we will have cuts in the event of an average winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u44	Mr. Van Hees, we don't ask the questions live. The answers will be given at the same time as all other colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u45	I ask the question and wait for the answer when the time comes. Recently, we have seen plant closures and producers have promised to create a series of plants in Seneffe, Navagne, Ghent, etc., for 2,500 MW, according to my information. These are unfulfilled promises. What is Elia's assessment of these unfulfilled promises on the part of electricity producers? How does Elia explain that the market was ultimately not able to secure the necessary supply because we are told that there is a risk of cuts this winter? As a system operator, do you feel that Elia has enough power to guarantee supply? Which plants will be built today and in the coming years? Could you give us further details in this area? If so, how many megawatts will be generated by these plants? What concerns us in the first place is, of course, the coming winter, but we must also look a little further and wonder whether the problem will also arise in the following winters, perhaps with even greater scope. Finally, several colleagues mentioned the issue of responsibilities in the event of discharge. For my part, I will ask the question more precisely. Are there any legal possibilities for this responsibility, in the event of cuts, to be borne by electricity producers who, somewhere, have not played their part?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u46	My two questions will be brief. With regard to blackout, I wanted to know whether firm and written guarantees had been given by the countries that would be able to provide us in the event of a shortage. If so, what are these countries? And what would the capacity be? Then, when do you think the strategic reserve will be operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u47	Colleagues, I will take the floor, and then I will give it back to the members who request it for clarification. Of course, I thank the representatives of Elias for coming to present their presentation. Citizens are legitimately alarmed by sometimes contradictory discourses. Indeed, when Elia comes out of the figures, the Secretary of State relativizes them. Both for our citizens and for our businesses and for local elected representatives, it seems to me that a comprehensive and transparent information would make it clearer. But that is not what we have heard in recent weeks, and in particular over the last two days. The question of price was also raised. A fine is required for an imbalance of 4,500 euros. There is concern about an increase in the price of electricity on the part of both businesses and citizens. I would like to remind you of the efforts made in this area by this government, which is still in day-to-day business. I know the CREG is responsible for the price, but you still have a general view. Do you think that fines and decisions are likely to increase the price of electricity for both businesses and citizens? On the other hand, do actors – producers and suppliers – still have enough time to try to balance supply and demand? Do you think that the next two months will be enough for them? Another question has been asked by some colleagues. We know that there are interruptible contracts related to the strategic reserve. Have FPS Economy, Elia and suppliers set up a working group to ask some companies that could reach critical peaks to reduce their energy consumption? Is there any momentum at this time? It is indeed high time. Which actors are involved? How is it implemented? Is there a respondent on the business side? I am also thinking of the issue of compensation and workers, but we will discuss it with the ministers. Another element you can answer by yes or no. With regard to interconnections, do you think that everything will go well across the northern border and that you will get these 3,500 MW of imports? In your opinion, security is rather important. A question about generators: on this subject, we hear everything and its opposite. Will the big generators be useful tomorrow to our companies, hospitals or sites at risk? Can they be connected to the network? Will they work properly? These are not small private generators, but large generators. Is there a strategy for the use of generators during these peaks and periods of risk during our winter? One last point: is there sufficient emphasis today on the solidarity that is essential for all citizens? Is the speech going? Do you really think, with your knowledge of the network, that it will be enough for every citizen to make a gesture, to feel solidarity with the Belgian population as a whole, not only with regard to areas that are at risk of being removed? These areas are known, and that's good, but isn't a bruxellois likely to make no effort knowing that his area of residence is not concerned? Would it not be appropriate for all citizens to show solidarity, which would require a clear explanation to avoid connecting their dishwashers, washing machines and others between 5 p.m. and 8 p.m.? Is this speech widespread enough? Is this solidarity really already heard? I don't think so. In my opinion, there is still a lot of work to be done. From what the Secretary of State seemed to say last week, similar situations have shown in our country that this is a strong possibility of reducing energy consumption. Finally, there would still be a point to be clarified. The question has been asked by various colleagues: today, given the liberalisation of the market, and even its privatisation in response to the wishes of Europe and not of the Belgian State, is it the market to respond first and foremost to security of supply? There may indeed be prospective studies, but is it the market that needs to answer the question of security of supply? In imposing a fine on the market, I have the impression that you answered the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u48	Madam President, I have two small questions. In your presentation, you talked about re-evaluating import capabilities. When will this re-evaluation take place? If we were to use these import capacities, it would be because of a cold winter and growing needs. Since winter is the same in Germany and Holland, are you sure that we will be able to benefit from this 3,500 MW? My second question concerns information to the municipalities. Who will be in charge of this information? The president spoke of a meeting that would be held in the near future. I guess it's not Elia's job to do it. In the release plan, you indicate that the Minister will be responsible as a last resort. But before the release plan comes, there is important information to be given to both citizens and municipalities. The mayors have a lot of questions about their responsibility. In fact, I am surprised to discover in the press the information put online by the SPF at 3.19 p.m. when it seems that there is a discrepancy between the tables and the information. Is there a difference between the explanations given in the newspaper and the reality? I think it is dangerous to give information online today when we are debating the substance. This is brought to the knowledge of citizens without any prior information. So they can interpret this in different ways, but probably in a catastrophic way. Could you give us a timing as to the information? What will Elia's role be in this information? What will be the role of Distribution System Operators (DSOs)?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u49	Madam President, I have two more questions regarding the finalisation plan. The first question was asked in part by the previous speaker. I would just like to go into a little more detail. On 22 August we were told that the exit plan, as it was announced today, already existed at that time. At that time, I insisted on making it known. My question was not answered. Reference was made to September 3rd, so today. Why was this mystery kept for 12 days? Were there any agreements between Elijah and the government to wait 12 days with the communications? According to Elijah, are there circumstances that justify this postponement? Or is communication entirely the responsibility of the Minister? A second aspect concerns the municipal authorities. Local authorities in the switch-off zones ask neighbouring municipalities, which are not in the switch-off zones, whether there can be a form of solidarity so that the burden is shared. Technically, I don't think this is possible right away, but I would have liked to have this confirmed by you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u50	I feel careful about a series of calculation methodologies to arrive at these famous figures of 49 hours and 116 hours. But I don't understand why you assume that the 3,500 MWh of import is guaranteed. Last week, the Secretary of State replied negatively to the question regarding the inclusion of 3,500 MWh as a guarantee, since these represent a capacity and not a guarantee. In a probabilistic model, based on the memories I have of the studies I have followed, we take probability assumptions on the 3,500 MWh. Here you integrate them 100%. It's very appealing. Do you have a calculation that allows you to give information in terms of hours and days at risk, without the 3,500? Let's assume 2,000, 2,500. Now you're working 100 percent. Everywhere else, you put probabilities but here you work 100%. However, we have heard in your speech, in the speech of the Secretary of State and in those of observers, in the event of a severe cold, the situation does not stop at the borders of a country. This can affect France, the Netherlands. We know that in the Netherlands there is a great capacity, but you come to say that the plants also close or are closing. Why did you pull the calculation with a 100% hypothesis out of the 3,500 MWh and could you pull the calculation out at about 2,000, 2,200?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u51	I would like to ask a question about industry. I assume that small and medium-sized enterprises that supply low voltage will be accommodated in the same way as private individuals in terms of relief. On the other hand, the industry supplies high voltage. Will it continue to be provided? And from what level of consumption will it continue to be provided?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u52	I would like to ask a more technical question about the TGV plant in Vilvorde, which will become a gas-fired power plant. You're saying this one could be out of order from November 1st. Is there any idea of the duration of the work? Is it possible to postpone this work? Or is the date of November 1 final and we do not know how long it will take?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u53	Mr Vandenberghe, you have the floor. You decide the order in which you wish to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u54	Madam President, these are questions that are circulating. For many of them, we anticipated in the note we distributed. We will reply briefly, but in case you want more explanation about, for example, the mechanisms of import capacity, we have explained them a little more extensively in our note. I propose that three groups of answers be provided first. Mrs Tant will then be responsible for the other groups. The first group concerns import capacity. The second group concerns everything related to the production. The third group deals with everything related to the consumption side, including incentives, and I would also like to bring the emergency generators, which actually represent a reduction on the consumption side. As far as import capacity is concerned, the most important thing is indeed what Mr Nollet says. We have always stressed this in our notes to the Minister: It is a heavy assumption to rely 100% on imports. It is dependent on imports. If the hypothesis is made at 2,000 MW, it doesn't go away. The LOLE gets too high. The LOLE (Loss of Load Expectation) becomes at levels... We need the 3,500 in the country. If you go down to 2,000, that's equivalent to losing once and a half more Doel 4. Our country is therefore structurally dependent on imports for about a quarter of peak consumption, for about 30% of its energy. That 3 500 megawatts is what we need, and we have always stressed that. We are making maximum efforts to deliver this as transport capacity, but not as energy: we are transporting the energy that others will have to buy on the markets. However, there is also a positive side to this scheme. Why was the scheme shown with an import of 3,500 from the Netherlands? This is because, for next winter - this winter - the capacity seems to be there. It is the market players who must have the contracts. We're the transporter. For next winter, the 3,500 seem to be there. So we took this assumption. It's, somewhere, out of necessity. I would also like to say that, with regard to the impact on the LOLE, we do not believe that there is a difference between our position and that of the minister. They're the same numbers. We do not guarantee cuts for the number of hours of the LOLE. It's an average, you know what that means, it can be more or less. But, essentially, it can be zero if the measures of activation, of demand flexibility succeed. This is essential and we believe it is possible. But it's not Elia's jurisdiction. We give the signal, we are the watchdog of the system. But it is not our competence to implement it. On this point, I will go back to the 4,500 – imbalance prices – and the 3,500 interconnection capacity. Indeed, there are the 3,500, I believe we have shown that we are using our own capabilities to the full. Mr Wollants, you asked if we could increase the capacity by using the 2 000 megawatts between Germany and France. That may be partly possible, but we cannot go to 5 000 megawatts. When we are in Belgium above 3 500 megawatts, we run into several other internal limits, such as voltage limits and so on. In the winter of 2012-2013 we introduced 3 800 to 3 900 megawatts. There are also safety criteria that we absolutely must respect, because otherwise we could risk domino effects with a blackout at European level. So we can't go much further than 3,500 megawatts. 4 500 megawatts may be possible in 2016. We have made this quite clear in our document. Nor should we be under any illusions about using the capacity that exists between Germany and France - 2 000 megawatts - on top of the 800 megawatts we have shown. It's the French who built the line. We will therefore not be able to use the French-German capacity if they need it. We must use our own import capacity. In terms of capacity, there is therefore a maximum of 3 500 megawatts available for the market. 500 megawatt balancing, if available, can be used in emergency situations. We're pretty much at the limit there. As far as production capacity is concerned, we have repeatedly stated that it is not up to us to know which gas plants enter the strategic reserves and which do not. We only say how much we need per winter. Nor do we have any insight into the construction plans. Among other things, the building plans from the year 2009-2010 have been asked. At that time several plants wanted to build, but the economy of the market has changed and all construction plans have been deleted. Elia only makes capacity available, but it doesn't play any other role. We can only play our part in the short term. For the rest, we are performers. A very important question is about the demand side. The demand side can avoid the LOLE switches. That's obvious. One thousand or one thousand five hundred megawatts can be delivered via demand at peaks in winter. I repeat, the industry has 15 minutes of measurements. If she can save EUR 4 500 per megawatt hour at such times, she will find agreements with the producers. Madam President, the momentum is on the way with the producers. Some already take initiatives on text messages, websites, etc. The producers, the suppliers will trigger this dynamic of this amount of 4,500. For households, the operation is not the same: there is no hourly count (?) and it is therefore necessary to have other mechanisms, which goes beyond the competence of Elias. An element related to this is the use of backup generators. Above all, DRMs must ensure that they meet the technical criteria. Perhaps there are a few cases where a discussion could follow, but this is not Elia's case. We believe that, within the framework of operational reserves, Elia can contract between 100 and 200 MW, but do the calculation: 50 hours or 100 hours times 4,500 euros are sufficient to amortize a backup generator? It is not up to us to carry out this exercise, but we have given the signal to the market. There must therefore be an incentive to increase the number of emergency generators. With all these measures – demand flexibility, household awareness and other steam generator-type measures – it must be possible to achieve this. This is possible if these measures are successful. That's what we really think. We are not saying that we will switch off, but we are saying what the probable number of hours off is if nothing happens, if no action is taken, if the dynamics of demand management are not triggered and something means something. That's Elijah's message. I believe that I have dealt with the questioning, production and transport shutters.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u55	I would like to dwell on the roles and responsibilities with regard to security of supply. It seems obvious who takes on what role, but I do not think that is the case. When I hear the various questions asked to Elijah, we are given a responsibility that we do not have today. However, this does not prevent us from wanting to take part in some of the pistes and make our expertise available. I think that is why we were invited to this committee to give some further explanations. I keep coming back to the fact that it is, in the first instance, the supplier who is monitoring the balance of his portfolio and should be encouraged to do so. In addition, there is a general government view of whether there are sufficient imports and inputs for the country in terms of consumption and the equipment plan. If that is not the case, it has certain powers to intervene. Think of the strategic reserves and the call for tenders, but also of the possibility of carrying out awareness campaigns and reducing consumption. What is Elia doing about communication? Is Elia aware of the measures taken to limit production? What is the savings that can be made there? Together with the FPS Economy and the CREG, we participate in the consultation on possible measures for sensitisation and reduction of consumption. However, it is primarily the responsibility of the federal government to determine these measures. Studies are being carried out on this subject. By the way, there was a quote in the press from Mrs. Fonck that was about 1 000 megawatts possible reduction of consumption. We can neither deny nor confirm that today. Those calculations are not made by us. Communication and crisis communication will primarily be the responsibility of the government concerned, both the Crisis Cell and the FPS Economy. With respect to liability for the damage suffered, the release plan shall be implemented at the request of the Minister. Elia executes the minister's request. Here too, we will normally find ourselves in a case of force majeure. The question of who caused the imbalance or shortage that resulted in the implementation of the relief plan is a debate that will take place between lawyers. What's the cause? What are the consequences? What is the link between the two? It is difficult to take a position at this time. We are open to consultation with agriculture and horticulture if they can provide us with certain pistes and initiatives on possible additional means of production. We'll follow up on this. Finally, with regard to permits and different interconnections, as Mr Vandenberghe has already explained, the Brabo project aims to strengthen our network in the port of Antwerp. We started in 2007 and obtained all the permits, which were attacked by a company. The sector plan was therefore cancelled. Normally, we should have already had this line, which would have allowed us to import an additional 4,000 MW. We have reinvigorated the procedure. In the Brabo project, which is the high voltage line, is included the PST – the shifters phase – which we intend to install if the Doel 1 and 2 closure is confirmed. A thousand megawatts are available on the network. Through the installation of the shifters phase, we will be able to increase the import capacity by 1000 MW at the beginning of 2016. If, for one reason or another, Doel 1 and Doel 2 do not stop, we will still have to wait for the construction of the Brabo high voltage line, which we plan to commission for 2019. Similarly, reinforcement on the Netherlands side will be necessary in order to increase capacity at the northern border by 1000 MW. Other interconnection procedures are ongoing. For example, I refer to the interconnection with Germany and England, but its recruitment is indeed at the earliest before 2019. We are also strongly in favour of simplifying licensing procedures at regional level, especially for projects which, such as the Allegro project with Germany and the Nemo project with England, are recognised as Projects of Common Interest by the European Commission, important for the whole picture of European security of supply and interconnection capacity, i.e. the entire European market.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u56	I would like to answer one more question about the denominations. To answer the question on cut-outs and priority on release slices 1 to 6 or slices 6 to 1, it is necessary to know that there are two types of use of these slices. Sudden phenomena are automatic, as on 4 November 2006, where there was a distortion at European level. It worked automatically. When it works automatically, it's slice 1 the first, then the second, then the third, then the fourth, then the fifth. The choice was made, for the phenomena of shortage, not to take the same priority. For the phenomena of shortage, as it is a manual deactivation, the choice was made to take the slices in the opposite priority: in principle 6, 5, 4, 3,... This was announced by the minister. In fact, it's the minister's decision. This is the general philosophy of the use of slices.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u57	I didn't hear anything about the decoupling plan. Has the twelve days of silence taken place in consultation with the municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u58	Those days were just needed to have a number of agencies do their homework. After all, there are side effects. The card needs to be updated, the list needs to be updated and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u59	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u60	Mr Degroote, no dialogue, let Mrs Tant answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u61	In any case, Elia will pass on a list of high voltage power stations to be switched off for the shutdown plan. Eventually, the government, together with the DNBs, is watching, based on the topology of the distribution networks, which zones to switch off. It's that card you'll find in the papers today. When and how it is published, a decision is entirely dependent on the Minister. That has absolutely nothing to do with Elijah.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u62	We heard it different last time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to hold a second round. I'll let the people of Elijah finish their speech. Unless they've said everything they have to say?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u64	There was also a question about the Energy Pact. In fact, we remain defenders of an energy pact. Energy is a very complex matter. The best way to implement a good policy is by bringing the various actors around the table and implementing certain measures by consensus. Elijah has done so, but there are also other parties in the market who can do so and who can play a neutral role in getting the various actors around the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u65	Who's gonna ask for the floor in a second round? I see Mr Calvo, Mrs Matz and Mr Friart.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u66	I did not have an answer to my question about a possible difference between low voltage supply and high voltage supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u67	The trigger slices are for networks with voltages below 30 kV. We have direct contractual links with the very large companies that are directly connected to the Elia network and the participation of these companies is therefore through contracts between Elia and the industrial one. It is in full compliance with legislation, technical regulations and the 2005 Ministerial Order that determines the modalities for the operation of the trigger plan. But there is indeed a difference for a company that is on the distribution networks in the areas concerned by the plan and a large company that draws its electricity directly from the Elia network.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u68	I think there's a question I didn't get an answer to. I also have a small supplementary question and a comment. The question to which I do not think I have received an answer concerns the timing of extending the strategic reserve from 800 megawatts to 1 200 megawatts. When did that happen? In the meantime, has an additional question been formulated to go to more than 1 200 megawatts?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u69	(...) with the hypotheses. This is also mentioned in Mr Nollet's question. Another import hypothesis was taken into account for a reserve of 800 megawatts. The 800 MW, as mentioned in the documents distributed, were based on other assumptions. They were issued prior to the loss of Doel 3 and Tihange 2: we were not in the event of cancelling any maintenance during the winter and we acknowledge that this was not the 3,500 MW import hypothesis, but only 800 MW. After the loss of Doel 3 and Tihange 2, we admitted that we could not do so without an action plan to maximize import and minimize maintenance. A plan has therefore been designed with the SPF Economy and CREG; we assume this action plan and modify the assumptions: 1,200 MW without Doel 3 and Tihange 2. We didn't reach them, we only reached 850 MW. So there's still a 350 MW hole to fill. With the loss of Doel 4, the hole increases roughly by 1,000 MW. This hole to be filled, as notified in the note, is now in the range of 1,300 MW to 1,400 MW. These are statistics and there is still a coefficient of uncertainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u70	You're at 850 megawatts, that's what Mrs. Fonck said two weeks ago. You want to go to 1 200 megawatts in the scenario in which Objective 4 is again active. To go from 850 to 1 200 at the moment, how does that go?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u71	These 350 are additional demand measures; this agrees to bring the LOLE from 5 and 29 to 3 and 20.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u72	Are you hopeful about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u73	That's up to the market. With the strong incentives available and sufficient mobilisation, it seems to us that we can nurture that ambition, not as Elijah, but together, as a society.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u74	I forgot to put an additional question. On page 12 of your document I read that as part of the Braboproject a cross-line transformer is installed. This could provide an additional capacity of 1 000 megawatts of imports. I am somewhat surprised at the last sentence of the paragraph. You say that this will initially serve as a reserve. At the moment, however, we do not have an immediate surplus.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u75	First of all, we need the Brabo project to valorize that fourth PST. We don't have the Brabo project, but we do have something else. If there is 1 000 megawatt less injection on the net in Target in 2015 by Objective 1 and Objective 2, we can inject directly from the border to the post of Objective and use the 1,000 megawatts to get the energy without the Brabo project on the Belgian grid. That is the reasoning behind the fourth PST: still introducing 1 000 megawatts. That is why we say: if Objective 2 stops at the end of 2015, we can use that project a few months later, in the summer of 2016, to import 1 000 megawatts more via Doel the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u76	Then the closure of Objective 2 actually has a positive net result in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u77	It has already been made clear here that the hypothesis of increasing 3 500 megawatts of imports to 4 500 with power stations closed down in the Netherlands is a particularly serious hypothesis.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u78	That is indeed voluntaristic, and that is why we are calling for a step back. That brings me to my point. The Energy Pact was discussed. I invite my fellow Members to read the method of the Ecolo-Green resolution on this, not in terms of concrete content but in terms of determining method. If something like this were to be supported by Parliament, especially for an initiative such as an energy pact that should be widely supported, that would be a good thing. This must be carried more widely than by majority and opposition. With Ecolo-Green we have tabled a resolution to define a clear method. For example, we do not provide for a steering role for the network operator, because that seems to us to be a task for the government. Mr Vandenberghe, we obviously want to draw on your expertise, as you have made it available today, for which I would like to thank you once again. I wish you every success in your difficult task.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u79	Mr President, earlier, some – who have already left us – regretted the publication of the maps on the SPF Économie website. If these maps had not been published, it would probably have been regretted that there was a lack of transparency and information vis-à-vis the population, even if these maps still had to be supplemented by information from the governors. We cannot preach everything and its opposite. One cannot say that there is a lack of information and, once the cards are published, say that they are raw. We are well aware that if these maps had not been published, there would have been interventions to regret the lack of information to the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u80	I wish I had the answer to my question about the strategic reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u81	The Vilvorde power plant is currently closed. It has a capacity of 385 MW. It participates in the 265 MW strategic reserve. The most recent part of the plant will be refurbished and the oldest part will be permanently decommissioned. This work is under way and the strategic reserve is expected to be ready within the next few days. There is therefore still a risk for the beginning of winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I also thank the representatives of the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control and Elia for coming to give us this information. I think they'll be back by the end of the winter! As far as the order of business is concerned, we will not be able to organise a committee next week because there are parliamentary days for different groups. As we agreed, the following week, we will bring together the President of the College of Governors and his Vice-President. The Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State will also be present. We will then determine the continuation of our work, unless you have specific requests.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u83	Madam President, I would like us to be able to audition Electrabel. With the number of questions pending on this aspect, I find it useful that we can hear its representatives in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-03-54-commissie-ic004x.u84	Your prends note the votre demande.
