ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, post and invoice fraud appears to be on the rise. Over the last few months, reports have repeatedly appeared in the press. A number of people have also pointed out to me that they have become victims of postal fraud. What is the right thing to do? One intercepts invoices that are normally delivered to the customer by post, then scans everything with a color printer, after which another original invoice is made on which the account number was changed. The victims put the money in the wrong account number. The problem is that it takes quite a long time before the victims become aware that they have not yet paid. Most of the time, it's done by a rappel. When you check the account number you have deposited, it appears that the account number is wrong. The banks are trying to recover the money, but that is obviously not clear. Anyone I've contacted on this matter recognizes the problem. The police are aware of a number of complaints and Febelfin has also said that she is aware of complaints about them. Everyone says, however, that it is very difficult to do anything about this. I find it strange that the banks could hardly do anything about it. Perhaps we should also look at the beginning of criminal activity, at bpost. Are there any possibilities there to deal with postal and invoice fraud in one way or another? How many cases are known in the total? Is there an effective increase? Can bpost take action against this? How can bpost make customers more aware of the problem? How will you deal with the matter when several postal companies come on the market?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u2	I would like to make the following preliminary remark. The question is about fraud with invoices. Counterfeiting invoices is not a mail fraud. There is currently no evidence that Bpost employees would be involved in this type of fraud. Let's get this straight. Over the past five years, bpost has received a hundred and fifty complaints. Victims of invoicing fraud almost always file criminal charges with the competent police services. Bpost has always cooperated to the maximum in the investigations conducted by the police and judicial authorities in order to reconstruct the trajectory of the letter at bpost as far as possible. The responsibility for fraud can only be determined by the police and by the judicial authorities. Since bpost itself is also a victim of fraud, it supports a victim's criminal complaint through a statement of injured person or through its own criminal complaint. When a perpetrator of fraud is found and prosecuted by the criminal court, bpost will also pose a bourgeois party in the proceedings. In addition, in January 2011 and in January 2014, bpost again filed a more general civil-party complaint with the competent authorities in Brussels for facts of invoice fraud. Furthermore, bpost takes permanent actions to ensure maximum security of the postal circuit. It is about ensuring the integrity of the recruitment of employees, the fully automatic sorting up to the house number, camera surveillance in the sorting centers, internal control, scanning and recording of each batch of a red mailbox. Finally, bpost also looks at how in the future the company could make the postal circuit itself, i.e. the distribution itself, even safer. Bpost has no plans for awareness-raising campaigns. It seems to me more appropriate that the financial institutions and those who send invoices should point out to their customers the danger of paying on unknown account numbers and the need to check a change of account number with the beneficiary himself. All legislation applicable to postal fraud shall be independent of the provider operator. The criminal provisions are also operator neutral. Today, of course, it is mainly about bpost, but the approach would otherwise be the same. An additional point that can be made is that electronic invoicing is on the rise, even though this is not yet the case everywhere. Anyway, electronic invoicing doesn't suffer from that kind of fraud. That is an observation that I am making, it is absolutely not a call or a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u3	I didn't want to insinuate in any way that the fraud is happening within bpost. It is called post fraud, because the fraudsters intercept and use letters in the postal service. I'm sure it's not bpost. By the way, the unsubs that were caught in the meantime were not from bpost but from third parties. It's a good thing bpost is bourgeois. In my question I stress that it is strange that banks themselves do not pay attention to it. As you yourself quite rightly say, it would be much better if the financial institutions were to pay their customers on both sides and those who make the invoices would point out that there may be a problem. The problem does not arise in electronic invoicing. There are, of course, other ways of cheating. It certainly cannot be the overall solution to the problem. Thank you in advance for the explanation that bpost is aware of the problem and tries to do as much as possible within its possibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u4	Madam President, Minister, welcome to this committee, with a competence close to my heart, especially the digital agenda. As you know, the government agreement stipulates that existing social tariffs in the context of energy and mobility will be evaluated with a view to improving them. That seems to me to be a very important provision. It is important to examine the impact of the existing system of social discounts for a particular target group on offering a low-threshold basic offer of soil rates for all. In particular, the low-threshold basic offer is very important. The government rightly considers this to be very important, it is in the coalition agreement and our group agrees with it. This is very important in the light of the fight against the digital divide. The question is to what extent a compulsory discount on any offer, including a cheap offer, could make such an offer uneconomic or impossible, with the result that everyone would be the victim. Let me give you an example. The average turnover per user for fixed broadband in the residential market, i.e. what the operator collected per user, decreased from 31.8 euros per month in 2008 to 25.8 euros per month in 2013. The cheapest internet offer costs 25 euros per month. The average revenue, including higher supply, is only 80 euro cents higher than the cheapest internet supply on the current market. This decrease is mainly due to the first period, 2008-2011, i.e. before there was a social tariff for broadband. This is due rather to competition rather than to the social tariff. We notice that more people are switching to the cheaper basic offer because it is already very extensive and is constantly expanding, with speeds of up to 30 megabits per second and with volumes of up to 100 gigabytes. That is no longer a basic offer, it has actually become a standard offer. Without a compulsory discount for a particular target group, such an offer, a real basic offer at even lower speeds, could be even cheaper. This is especially true when certain operators act as price breakers. Firstly, how will you address the assessment of the social tariff for telecommunications? Is a study ordered from an external organisation or will BIPT evaluate this with its own people? Secondly, what criteria do you think the social rates and the evaluation should meet? Is the impact on the creation of a low-threshold offer for everyone, not just for right holders at a social rate, a point of attention? Thirdly, in the past I have always asked about the ARPU, average revenue per user, of customers with a social rate, of course anonymous to the operators because I do not want to distort competition. In the meantime, for example in the context of an investigation, are there figures available on the average ARPU of customers with a social rate? Can you tell me?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u5	Madam President, Mr Dedecker, there is currently a case pending before the European Court of Justice on the Belgian regulation of social rates. The Court will decide within a few weeks on the obligation to offer social tariffs for Internet access and mobile telephony, as well as on funding through an intersectoral fund. At the end of this case, taking into account the ruling, an overall assessment of the social tariff will be carried out with a view to improving it. To date, it has not been decided whether the BIPT will carry out this evaluation itself or whether it will call on an external consultant. Social tariffs are a means of combating poverty and the digital divide. The impact of the current system should be examined in order to assess its affordability, as well as the impact of a possible automation of the allocation. It is also necessary to consider how the current system affects social tariff customers when choosing their subscription. Sometimes we find that the existence of a social tariff sometimes encourages users to choose a higher rate, and this cannot of course be the intention. It will also examine how operators can be encouraged to provide a low-threshold basic offer for all, which could serve as an alternative to the social tariff. For a piece, I think this answers your question. We see a reduction in the ARPUs if there are sufficiently simple basic rates. The question can be asked as to whether there is still a need for a separate system. Your third question dealt with the ARPUS. Certain operators have provided the average yield per customer to BIPT in the light of an investigation into the unreasonable administrative burden of social tariffs. However, I cannot communicate this information to you because the operators declare it confidential. On the basis of your question, I have the impression that you yourself have some contacts.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I have the impression that we are a little more on the same wavelength with you than with your predecessor. I believe that this is quite obvious. You will find that the existence of a social tariff sometimes encourages you to opt for a more expensive subscription. It is true that a higher budget is available at that time. This phenomenon has to be looked at and it has also given rise to my question about the average yield per user. Some people use that discount, for example, to participate in TV games. That is why I continue to insist on obtaining figures, anonymized for the operators. More fundamentally, I want to talk about the digital divide. You call it an instrument in the fight against the digital divide. Well, we have to see today that the country is not so much a digital divide of the first degree but rather of the second degree. This means that not so much financial barriers prevent people from bridging that gap, but barriers such as knowledge, skills and interests. Those who are on the wrong side of the digital divide and are hampered by knowledge and interests do not necessarily have the right to social rates. In this way they suffer from a lack of a truly low-threshold basic offer that is made impossible by a system of social tariffs. That is why it is important to pay attention to this. Measuring is knowing.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u7	Minister, the geographical aspect of universal service provides that every citizen of this country must have access to a fixed telephone connection and functional Internet access at any location. So far Belgacom has been designated for this purpose, but since the reform of the telecoms law there is also open to consortia of operators. If we want to ensure a link across the country, we must have a very extensive consortium. That's not so obvious. The Royal Decree of 2 April 2014 lays down a number of financial conditions for the provision of the geographical element of the universal service. One of the provisions is that the provider applies an identical affordable rate throughout the territory for the same operation for all private end-users. So that's a big threshold. I have the following questions. Is the whole territory exclusively the territory in which the operator, member of a consortium, offers his services? Or is that supposed to mean the whole empire? In the KB, people are talking about the whole area of the Empire. An operator operating only in a certain part of the country and forming part of a consortium cannot, of course, talk about identical tariffs for the whole territory. In this way they get another direction only towards Belgacom. The coalition agreement stipulates that the concept of universal services must be given a contemporary meaning. To what extent do you consider the geographical element to be contemporary, if it appears that the BIPT has achieved a basic broadband coverage of 100% since 2012 and that even 97% of citizens have 30 Mbps coverage? In addition, last year it was laid down by law that the 800 MHz auction should give priority to areas where the current 3G coverage is insufficient today. Today we are the most connected country with cover everywhere. To what extent do you still consider this geographical element necessary in this connected country? To what extent are you considering abolishing this element and its related complex provisions, for example on the quality of services and the possible cancellation of the procurement procedure for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u8	Where a consortium is designated as a universal service provider, all members of the consortium shall be responsible for the performance of the obligation to provide such universal services and shall, by mutual agreement, apply identical conditions for the provision of universal services within their national territory. As far as the geographical aspect of universal service is concerned, the figures quoted by you need to be adjusted more quickly. At the end of 2012, the coverage of basic broadband was 99,95 %. However, we mean connections of at least 144 kilobytes per second. The universal service imposes a higher speed of 1 megabyte per second so that functional Internet access can be provided. A BIPT study shows that Belgacom can deliver such speed to 99.8 % of buildings on Belgian territory. The crucial question in this debate is whether the market is able to offer an Internet access of 1 megabyte per second on the entire territory. To check this, BIPT has launched a project to map the operators' offerings. Based on the results of this exercise, BIPT should examine whether the geographical component of the universal service is still necessary. Only then can a procedure for the designation of a provider be established.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u9	Minister, you say that Belgacom can deliver one megabyte per second for 99.8 % of the buildings. That's a hell of a lot. We must therefore ask ourselves the extent to which the rest is disproportionately costly. Sometimes it's people who consciously choose to live very remotely. To what extent should society pay for this? I look forward to the research of the BITP. If Belgacom alone can provide 99.8 % of the homes, I wonder what the other operators can add. Is the geographical aspect still necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u10	Madam President, Minister, the offer of free or not free of charge is now perhaps a somewhat overloaded word "Internet access" to guests, visitors or passers-by is very common nowadays, but it is, to some extent, compromised by the data retention law. That law was supplemented by a letter from BIPT dated 27 June 2014, stating that the provider of a Wi-Fi network should be regarded as an operator. Therefore, the provider is subject to the data retention law and reasonable investments are required to do so. In addition, the provider must register as an operator, which entails EUR 681 in administrative costs plus an annual fee of EUR 636 for the notification alone. Those amounts are not small. For many catering operators it is not clear whether or not they are covered by this obligation. After all, it is about the provision of networks on the public domain, but a Wi-Fi signal does not stop at the borders of a restaurant terrace. An exception was provided for those services, if they are limited to the private domain. Article 9 (7) provides that those private networks will be subject to rules not yet specified. This in itself leads to a lack of clarity. That is why I have a number of questions for you. Firstly, how do you evaluate the law and its implementing decisions today, i.e. both the operator's obligation to register and the data retention law itself? Secondly, during the discussion of the data retention law in the Chamber at the time, Minister Vande Lanotte stated several times that operators and providers of Internet access, including catering operators who open a hotspot, should not keep additional data, but should only keep records of data already in their possession and processed. I quote the Minister at the time literally: 'The retention obligation applies only if the communication is recorded'. More than that, I quote again literally: "Everything that could already be done today is limited." That's what he said, so there's nothing to it. Mr Minister, how do you reconcile this with the mandatory identification and recording of the data, even for those who have not done so before? Were the repeated claims made by the then Minister correct? That's a very pertinent question. Thirdly, in the meantime, the European Data Retention Directive, which also received the Big-Brotheraward, was destroyed by the European Court of Justice. The directive would not be compatible with what is permissible under European law. What impact do you see on Belgian legislation following destruction? Will you amend Belgian legislation and implementing decisions? Secretary of State Tommelein gave an opinion on that yesterday. Fourthly, what initiatives will you take to clarify and/or simplify the law and its implementing decisions to support the welcoming Wi-Fi networks? Fifthly, are you planning further consultations with the providers through their sector organisations, with which I mean BELTUG, V-ICT-OR and the VVSG, for an evaluation and amendment of that law?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u11	Madam President, Mr Dedecker, the legal framework for the retention of data by operators and service providers could not lag behind technological developments. The judicial authorities must be able to obtain this information in order to identify the perpetrators of illegal acts. The Data Retention Act and its Implementing Decision require operators and service providers to keep only the data they process or generate themselves. They shall not be subject to any additional obligation on other data. During the transposition process, there was a wide-ranging discussion with all the services concerned in order to achieve the objectives of the Directive and also to create a framework in which the fundamental rights of citizens can be guaranteed. According to experts, the Belgian regulatory framework would respond to the objections raised by the European Court of Justice in its judgment. A request for the cancellation of the data retention law was submitted to the Constitutional Court. It is appropriate to await the ruling of the Constitutional Court before we take any initiative. The BIPT has already met several times with representatives of BELTUG, V-ICT-OR and the VVSG on the application of the legislation in order to provide them with more clarity. The contacts have always been in a good and open atmosphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u12	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It makes sense that the perpetrators of illegal acts should be found out. Unfortunately, however, our law went a lot further, also towards State security, which is not in the European directive. I have been informed by Secretary of State Tommelein that, among other things, we will make adjustments in this area. You were very clear and reiterated that only the data that the providers process or store must be kept. We cannot stress that enough. I note that there is still confusion and it is still assumed that more needs to be done on identification and registration. I can only insist that it should be made even clearer so that the concerns can be overcome in this way. I think there is still work to be done in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u13	Minister, the European Commission has decided to refer our country to the European Court of Justice because it does not guarantee the necessary independence of BIPT. Your predecessor always reacted enthusiastically when our country had a complaint from the European Commission before it, but I hope you will deal with it a little more seriously, I am counting on it and I am already convinced of it. In concrete terms, the European Commission has problems with the possibility of suspending decisions by the Council of Ministers in accordance with the law of the BIPT and the need for the strategic plan to be approved by the Council of Ministers. Those are two problems, which I have been suing for years and which I have also tried to rectify when transposing the telecoms package into Belgian legislation here in Parliament, but that was not the case at the time. The European Commission felt that those who do not want to hear should feel, hence the subpoena. One could argue that they are minor issues, as there are no facts of interference known. Board members of the BIPT are extremely careful about the legal possibilities, because they don't really like to get screwed up and flogged back. There is therefore implicit pressure, implicit dependence of BIPT on the government. How do you handle the subpoena? Will you go against the European Commission before the court or will you opt for the other option, namely the amendment of the law, pending the reform towards a unified regulator, as examined in the coalition agreement? What adjustments will you propose and how will you further strengthen the independence of BIPT?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u14	Madam President, the coalition agreement does indeed provide for a further strengthening of the independence of the BIPT and I fully support it. That is why I asked my services to present a legislative amendment as soon as possible, which brings the law into line with the European framework directive on the independence of the regulator. Following the adoption of the legislative amendment, the government will no longer have the possibility to delete a decision of the BIPT or to influence the strategic plan. The only form of supervision that remains is the responsibility of BIPT to the representatives of the federal Parliament, where it presents its three-yearly strategic plan and its annual report. The BIPT is also in favour of doing so, in order to give more transparency about its work. In a second phase, in consultation with the BIPT, consideration will be given to further strengthening its substantive, strategic, operational and financial independence.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u15	Minister, we are more in line in this respect, unlike your predecessor, who chose the confrontation with the European Commission. I am pleased that you will strengthen independence, so that suspension and deletion will no longer be possible. Of course, no more legal dependence does not mean that BIPT does not have to justify its choices and does not have to engage in the public debate. Nothing could be further from the truth. That is why a distinction is made. The BIPT will come to explain its policy in Parliament. We must stand by that. It seems obvious to me. As far as the legislative changes in this area are concerned, I tabled a legislative proposal during the previous legislature aimed at strengthening the independence of BIPT, in particular as regards the points you have raised today. I won't file it again. I would like to invite my fellow Members to deal with the dossier together. I think that's the same step.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u16	Madam President, this is my penultimate question before I monopolise the whole sitting here. Mr Minister, according to Article 9 (1) of the Act of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications, anyone who offers or resells communications services or services networks in his own name and on his own account must be regarded as an operator and register with the BIPT. For the little ones, operators with a turnover of less than 1 million euros, this costs only 618 euros and then 636 euros annually. Of course, the funding of BIPT's services is a good thing, but this raises a number of questions. Who should register? Once one is registered as an operator one also has to meet a number of obligations. There is, however, some confusion about the latter. Communication services are a very broad concept that goes beyond the provision of internet connections via Wi-Fi, mobile phone or landline. There are also other providers of communication services: hosters, domain name providers and many other service providers, such as application service providers. I therefore have a number of questions so that this concept can be more specific. First of all, is a hoster someone who offers to host third-party websites on his server an operator? I think this can be answered with yes or no. Secondly, is someone who offers mailboxes to third parties an operator? Is there a difference between someone who uses the host provider's trade name on their own domain, e.g. gmail.com or mailservice.be, someone who offers addresses against payment to third parties or someone who offers third parties their own domain name and takes care of the mail hosting for them? Thirdly, what about hosters offering virtual servers to their customers? The customer can manage the website himself, run the mailboxes and host other services? What about companies that hire virtual servers from the hoster and offer them a mail service for their customers? Which of these different players should register with BIPT, and who shouldn't? Fourthly, someone who offers a news service or a horoscope service via SMS, for example, also does electronic communications? Do they have to register? Fifth, cloud service providers, for example a provider of a catering app or accounting services, should register as operators, because in essence they also offer electronic communications? In Ghent, for example, we know that Posios is a merger with a Canadian company. With regard to such innovative start-ups via app, we are really top. So much for clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u17	Mr Dedecker, firstly, a hoster is not an operator, because it only provides space for websites designed and managed by third parties. A content provision service is defined as an exception in Article 2 (5) of the telecoms Act. The provision of mail services or mail hosting is also about delivering content and there is no question of being an operator. As regards the hosters of virtual servers, it is also about making content or applications available and therefore there is no obligation to report as an operator. For their customers, it is necessary to consider on a case-by-case basis which service they offer to check whether or not it is an electronic communications service. When customers host websites or offer mailboxes, they are always covered by the listed cases in questions 1 and 2 and there is no notification. However, offering a voice over IP service accessible via Belgian numbers is a case where reporting as an operator is mandatory. As regards the provision of information services via SMS, no notification is required because the content is offered again. With regard to your last question about cloud computing, the situation needs to be considered on a case-by-case basis. In most cases, these services consist of providing content or infrastructure to host and not distribute content. Then they are not covered by the rules. A provider of a catering or accounting application is not obliged to report as an operator and is not subject to the obligations imposed on operators. Finally, the BIPT website contains a brief guide for the parties concerned to determine the status of their activity in respect of the law. I will not read the link, you can find the information on the website of the BIPT.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u18	Mr. Secretary, I'll find the information. Thank you for your clarification. If one indeed distinguishes between those who offer the virtual server space and those who possibly run a voice over IP service on it, then it is clear that the first is not an operator and the second is. Thank you for the clarity that has been created.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u19	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, by the beginning of 2016, a new management contract will have to be drafted for bpost. This discussion should therefore begin soon between the various stakeholders, unless you tell me today that it has already begun and that you have launched the initiative. Deputy Prime Minister, with regard to the next bpost management contract, my questions are therefore as follows. Can you give us specific information about the order and timing of the work planned in Parliament? What's the status of bpost discussions? If these have not already started, when will the start of the work with your firm take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u20	Madam President, my colleague, the current management contract, the fifth, covers the period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2015. There is not yet a work schedule for the next management contract. As far as bpost is concerned, today's most urgent issue is the concession of newspapers and magazines, which fall within the competence of the Minister of Economy, Kris Peeters, since Europe is imposing a deadline on this matter. At the same time, we will do everything we can to prepare the new management contract in depth with a view to renewing it in time. I will ensure that I report to the Legislative Chambers no later than one month after receipt of the draft of the new management contract submitted by the management committee of the public undertaking. The division of powers between ministers with regard to bpost cases was decided in the Council of Ministers on 23 October, so less than a month ago. The discussions that took place between the firm and the bpost management are rather exploratory in nature. The importance of this new management contract was raised during these interviews, but the file has not yet been thoroughly studied. There is also no formal agreement on timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u21	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you. I'm surprised there's no schedule yet. We are talking about a management contract whose importance will not escape anyone. When do you propose to come and develop this planning into the House's committee? What is the deadline, not the time you are going to take – I am not yet there, minister, do you rest assured; this is a first question that I am asking you and we will have the opportunity to see you very often – but the time you are planning to achieve the objectives set? When do you think it will be necessary to be ready to start work? In addition, you consider it reasonable to come to Parliament one month before the deadline for the management contract. That will indeed allow us to do a good job.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u22	At the Minister's request, we will attach questions 249 van de heer Roel Deseyn, 428 van de heer David Geerts and 532 by Gilles Foret.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u23	Madam President, congratulations on your presidency in our committee. Minister, if there is a shortage of electricity, this will of course also have an impact on the telecommunications network. I have already questioned Minister Jambon about the specific consequences for the ASTRID network. However, I would also like to check what has been agreed for the telecoms sector. This also fits in with its obligations and the follow-up of the critical infrastructure directives. The law stipulates that the sector must already be prepared for such scenarios, i.e. not only for power cuts but also for natural disasters, on everything that has to do with a threat of shutdown. Minister, what will be the impact on fixed and mobile telecommunications networks? It is important for us to be able to inform the public about this. Is the effect limited only to the switch-off zone or will there be follow-up effects? Can we test it according to the switch-off plan? What is the conformity between the switching plan and the structure of a telecom network? Can that network continue to function? We have not yet found an answer to that. What about the accessibility of emergency services via a conventional landline? A classic landline at Belgacom is connected to the modem. So if there's no electricity, that device is no longer operational. One may still be able to call with a mobile phone, but because many companies use VoIP power stations, one will not be able to reach the emergency services. Minister, the problem falls specifically within your competence. What is the impact on the Proximus network? What types of devices will citizens be able to use? It is important that they know what will work and what will not. After all, the telephone network is completely integrated. What commitments are being made in this respect? Can preventive measures in the field of telecommunications be used to increase efforts for citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u24	Mr Minister, Mr Deseyn has already given the introduction. I'm switching to my specific questions. Are there, as in the various municipalities, also switch-off zones for certain cell towers or fiber optic cables? Is there a plan of action or are Mobistar, Base and Belgacom/Proximus self-sufficient? Do you have any emergency services available? Is there a state of play regarding consultation with the FPS Economy and with the Minister for Energy, Mrs Marghem? The BIPT is responsible for the security of the networks. Has there been any consultation with the BIPT? In what way do the BIPT and the FPS Economy work together for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u25	Madam President, Minister, I would like to join my two colleagues in expressing their interest in maintaining telecommunications during the hypothetic energy shortage this winter. During this summer, we had the opportunity to discuss the release plan extensively. I would like to stress the importance of telecommunications between citizens and between professionals. We also made it the sad experience in Liège during the shooting on 13 December. It is therefore appropriate to see what needs to be done in the event of a power outage and discharge. Minister, is it possible to use a text message system for all mobile subscribers in an area that would be affected? Then, in the areas concerned, will the telephone booths be considered a priority? Finally, will prevention campaigns be implemented to explain to the population what behaviour to adopt in case of discharge? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u26	At present, about 10 large telecom operators are highly dependent on electric power to provide their services. Operators have, as far as technically possible, installed facilities in their own networks to temporarily absorb power interruptions. Telecommunication will be severely disrupted or impossible during the shutdown. There is limited autonomy for mobile networks; fixed telephony and the Internet will no longer function immediately, except Belgacom's analogue telephony, where the power supply comes from the power station, but only if the power station is still under power. Emergency services shall remain available as long as the communication services function. Emergency services will only be available in the switched-off areas via Belgacom's analogue telephone service for up to four hours and via mobile telephony for a maximum period of one to three hours depending on the mobile operator and the traffic penalty after switching off the electricity. On the part of emergency services operators, namely the ASTRID network, there are normally no problems in terms of continuity and access to emergency services. Research by the BIPT shows that most major operators have a business continuity plan. Such a plan shall include measures to minimise the negative impact of, inter alia, power interruptions. It naturally focuses mainly on the functioning of the core of the network, where the traffic of all customers is transported; this is protected. The BIPT has contacted the Executive Board of the FPS Economy. After consultation, it was decided that BIPT would act as coordinator for the telecoms sector in the crisis centre. In this context, BIPT has been working with the telecoms sector in recent weeks to ensure an exact state of play and to ensure that preventive measures are taken to minimise the impact of large-scale switching on the operation of electronic communications networks. A procedure for power interruptions has been worked out together with the operators. The BIPT, in consultation with the sector, provided the electricity distributors with a list of base stations, asking them to give priority to this when switching on the power to minimise the unreachability of the emergency services. The reply received shows that no action can be taken. The Royal Decree of 27 May 2014 on the security and protection of critical infrastructures has already taken a first step, laying down the basic content of the critical infrastructure operator's security plan. The operators of critical infrastructures still need to be identified. At present, ENISA is developing a methodology to identify critical infrastructure for the electronic communications sector. I believe that a Belgian policy on this issue is rather coherent in a European framework. Once the framework is stable, more steps can be taken to identify the entities considered critical infrastructure in electronic communications.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u27	On the one hand, it is good that there is a lot of consultation and that much has already been prepared, but you admit that, at a certain degree of force majeure, emergency services in certain regions will not be available when the base stations are switched off. In Belgium, apart from some mast problems in the Ardennes, there is a fairly good solution for ASTRID. Perhaps a specific emergency service could be opened up to ASTRID a little more. It is rather dramatic if, for example, there would be a cardiac arrest and the emergency service could not be reached. There is the fixed network, but for mobile phones the question is whether the emergency service plants are fully operational. How do citizens know if they have an analogue, classic service? Sometimes these are identical devices that can be connected to the two modes, but it works entirely via the digital network. The information campaign will continue to be important: one must be able to assess what one can no longer do, so that one can physically go to a particular post to report something. If one is not reachable in any way, there must be a second best solution, be it a physical displacement to notify someone. A kind of desk will have to be created with local authorities to deal with these problems as quickly as possible. You've been very honest, but the file requires further follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You've given us an honest state of affairs. It is important that the problems are certainly not minimized: even if the news is not good, it must be dared to bring it. You referred to the analog lines. Can you let me know, possibly afterwards, what the coverage rate is when one falls back on the analogue system? It can be said that they continue to function more or less, but what is the level of coverage? This is essential in order to know what further steps are needed in the context of the provision of services, especially in the case of emergency services. We'll assume a sausage case scenario, I'm aware of that. We wouldn't have done that interesting thought exercise four years ago; we wouldn't have thought about other calamities. So we'll learn something from that. If you can give me the analogue coverage rate in writing, we can see further and perhaps the BIPT can work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u29	Minister, thank you for the accuracy of your remarks. I have every confidence in your abilities and those of your government colleagues to manage what will be handled in due course. I would like to stress the importance of communication between citizens in the event of a crisis and the anticipation of behaviour by raising awareness about what could happen. In Liège, we experienced a crisis a few years ago with the shooting and we saw there the importance of social networks when telecommunications could not function in the city centre. I know that one situation is not the other, but I believe that awareness of the behaviour to be adopted in the event of unburdening and lack of means of telecommunications is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u30	First of all, you are talking about analog lines. It is indeed about analogue landlines, not about the old analogue mobile phone network. There it depends on whether the power plant to which one is connected has power supply. If you have that central power supply, then the communication goes as usual. Secondly, if you call 911 with a mobile phone, it doesn't matter which network works. A network A customer will still have access to the emergency number if network A does not work but network C does. If all base stations are disconnected in certain regions, there is of course no coverage.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u31	Can ASTRID mean something if the classic operators don't work? ASTRID has its own security infrastructure. It would be good if only emergency calls could go through that network. I'll give you that as a suggestion. It certainly seems to me worth investigating that ASTRID could only be used for emergency calls.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u32	We'll look into that. The question arises whether ASTRID's communication standards are useful for classic devices. To be honest, that would surprise me, but we will look into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u33	I think we will come back to this subject, while hoping that there will be no relief this winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u34	At the Minister's request, we will attach Mr. David Geerts' question No. 512 to Mr. Laurent Devin's question No. 301.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u35	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, PS and Sp.a. are interested in employment in the Public Service. This question could therefore have been asked by others of my colleagues. However, the social climate is visibly difficult at the central bpost headquarters in Brussels. Following the recent announcement by the bpost management of a screening of more than 3,500 jobs, trade unions and staff are concerned that a social plan might be put in place. A disaster scenario is mentioned, with almost 30% of jobs threatened. Indeed, the figure of 1,000 jobs directly threatened is mentioned. Deputy Prime Minister, to what extent has the federal government, as a representative of the shareholder state at bpost, been officially informed of this management initiative? Can you give us specific information about this 3,500 workstation screening? Has it started yet? If so, what is the planned schedule for obtaining the full results of this study? In addition, can you inform us about the types of positions that are screened? Has the bpost management met with the unions on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u36	Madam President, Minister, I am very pleased to be able to support Mr Devin's question. After all, it is a matter of concern that all postmen and postal women live across the country today. Mr Devin has already mentioned that they are particularly concerned about the screening that is apparently going to take place in internal services in order to identify the jobs that add value to the company. That is, of course, a very vague description, hence my next questions. Which places of employment will be evaluated? Is the figure of 3,500 that we could read? To what extent has the evaluation already been the subject of social consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u37	Madam Chair, the Alpha project was presented to the Board of Directors. bpost operates in a constantly changing environment, marked in particular by strong competition in the field of parcels and declining mail volumes. In order to increase efficiency and productivity and ensure its financial viability, bpost is forced to adapt its organisation continuously. Over the past 10 years, many changes have already taken place at various levels of the company, such as the distribution network or the network of post offices. Today, it is the support services of the company that are concerned with this need to improve managerial efficiency. To this end, bpost management has decided to carry out an internal analysis which will have to define the future optimal organizational model of support services. This analysis is under way. It concerns just over 1,200 people and is not guided by any numerical targets. This analysis will have to be completed by the end of this year. Management will then make the appropriate decisions. These will be implemented in 2015. At present, speculation about decisions and the number of jobs threatened is premature. For the sake of clarity, all employees in a commercial function or a framework function and all employees in support services are involved. Postmen, sorters, drivers, window operators, call center staff and maintenance personnel are not involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u38	You mentioned categories of people. Are they all concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u39	I understand that this is an essential element for you. Only managerial, commercial or support functions are concerned. As has always been the case with all previous reorganisation projects, the rules of social dialogue will continue to be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u40	Minister, I must confess that I have been very worried about your comments. I suppose you understand that. Indeed, if the factors, drivers, shopkeepers, call centre employees and maintenance staff are not involved, we are talking about support and commercial services as well as managers. You tell us that there are no precise figures at the moment and that there is no reason to be worried. However, the month of December is fast approaching. I imagine you'll be the first to receive information. That is why I will ask you to warn us as soon as possible and to exert all your influence so that the public services do not suffer from these decisions. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If we compare bpost with other European operators, we can still talk about a successful company. In my view, this has to do with three factors: effective management, good labour and, above all, good social dialogue, because both employers and employees have the best interests of the company. You just defended union initiatives, for example to deliver packages on Sundays. This means that people want to think about the strategy and growth of the company. So the social dialogue is important here. A number of categories were mentioned which will be reorganised and others were already subject to a reorganisation. For us, it is important that good social dialogue is organised and that, in accordance with tradition and after social dialogue, appropriate measures are taken to maintain the efficient organisation. That is what we want to continue to hammer, even in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u42	The Ecolo-Groen Group had called for a debate on Belgacom's involvement in the LuxLeaks case to take place in this committee. Normally, these questions should have been attached to the exchange of views, but as the minister came with answers, let's go.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u43	Minister, what we learned about the LuxLeaks affair was not always comfortable for the government. Belgacom is also mentioned in this case. Belgacom's spokesman also responded. The question is whether the construction has served in the context of handling the operating profit. Was a commercial activity added to the existing holding structure set up? Or was it the intention from the outset to create a structure there as well? It is important that we have maximum transparency in this. Even if this is in an atmosphere of illegality or is not really at issue, the government has an exemplary role to play in this matter. Minister, the government agreement states that public enterprises should be examples of good governance. Does this mean that they should not organise themselves to reduce contributions? I'm not saying minimize. That would be inappropriate, given the contributions Belgacom-Proximus makes to the government. I also have a question about tax optimisation. We were very strict on certain social groups. It was said that perfect legal mechanisms were used. That was denounced by public opinion. We must therefore ensure that we deal with this with some caution from a political point of view. Mr. Secretary, can you defend what happened? Will you address Belgacom about financial policy? After all, the same people from back then still bear a great responsibility. Has this issue also been raised in the Governing Board? Perhaps I should ask a new question on this or can we discuss this in the debate with the Government Commissioner that the President has announced. Silence could be understood as tacit approval. It is important that we know the file well first. I look forward to your answer with great anticipation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u44	Minister, LuxLeaks has already been mentioned in plenary. What is important to me in this debate is that there should be clarity. Belgacom was mentioned in the LuxLeaks case. I could read in the paper that they say nothing illegal happened. These are economic activities justified by the company's policies. You yourself said that you want more clarity from the company about the legal as well as the ethical aspect of this dossier. Good governance is important in public enterprises. Hence my specific questions on this matter. Did you ask Belgacom's management to clarify the situation? Could you give us some clarification on the outcome of this conversation? What exactly are the activities of Belgacom? Do these constructions still exist today? What next steps will you take in this dossier? In the previous legislature, we have occasionally had the chairman of the board of directors in this committee to discuss such matters, whether or not in camera. Could this be a subject of debate between the chairman of the Management Board and the members of that committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u45	Madam President, I want to be clear: I do not think that such practices can be defended and I share the indignation that many people have today. These kinds of constructions can't be tolerated. Those who have the greatest disadvantage are SMEs and citizens, who do not have the means to set up such structures. I was not a minister in 2004, when Belgacom would have made use of this, I speak in the conditional sense, because I do not have all the details yet, but today I do not accept this. I've asked Belgacom's management to clarify things. It may be legal, but there is also an ethical dimension to acting. This means that public companies have to make their tax contribution as part of good governance. For the time being, I have not yet received this detailed information on past practices and their vision of tax optimisation. With regard to your question about the work of this committee, that is, of course, Parliament's complete autonomy, and I would not dare to intervene in that, but if that question is asked, I do not see at all how I could stand in the way of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u46	Madam President, Minister, you take an important position of principle, you are very straightforward. We are waiting with you for further information to be given to the substance of the debate. The signal that the government is sending now is very clear, in particular that it should not be handled too creatively.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u47	Madam President, Minister, I have also spoken in writing about the ethical aspect. It is true that we, as a committee, can organise the work ourselves, but I think it is an important signal that you, as the minister responsible, say that you absolutely also think that this committee can do its work and, if necessary, take the necessary steps with regard to the public sector itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u48	Mr Minister, it seems as if I am going on the Community tour here, but my explanation will show that it is really the opposite. I am surprised that every now and then there are still disputes about the language of employees at bpost. We received a complaint from Vilvoorde because it appears that the language legislation in force would not be complied with in that post office. That's the law. On the one hand, the government agreement states that you would leave the operational objectives of the public sector to management, but, on the other hand, we must note that this company operates in a commercial environment in which other private companies are not taken into account by language legislation and can develop policies that have an international, multilingual dimension. So they have a commercial advantage. Hence the following questions. Can post offices offer their services in a language other than the official language of the region in which they are located? If that is not legally possible today, how can you ensure that this can be done legally, as other companies operating in the same commercial environment can do the same? Can language legislation today be regarded as an objective disadvantage to other postal operators? To what extent can this be remedied? My personal view is that bpost is currently being saddled with a commercial disadvantage regarding its commercial operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u49	Thank you for your question and the explanation. According to Article 12 (1) of the Law on the use of languages in administrative matters, local authorities are obliged, in their relations with individuals from their own language territory, to use only the language of their territory. However, the same provision provides for a derogation for individuals from other linguistic areas. Under the so-called courtesy principle, local services may reply to residents of another language area in the language of which they have served. The principle of courtesy seems to me to be an important principle in the commercial context in which bpost operates and in the context of customer friendliness. I have not yet received any indication that the current language legislation would be at the disadvantage of bpost. However, I do believe that we must remain vigilant and ensure that, as provided for in the coalition agreement, we strive for a level playing field. If it turns out that bpost services suffer from disadvantages due to the application of the current language legislation, then I think that we need to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u50	Minister, as you can see, it is not always a majority against opposition in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u51	That could change.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u52	In a number of cases that will undoubtedly change. When drawing up a next management agreement, we should integrate the courtesy principle so that a company as a post-post is not always unsuccessful in any complaints based on Article 12 alone and language legislation. The courtesy principle is an ideal landing slope, even within your government coalition. We have to make sure that the company does not suffer any harm from this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u53	Mr President, Minister, on 7 November last the Council of Ministers, following the recommendations of the European Commission, decided to reallocate the powers relating to the supervisory bodies of the SNCB by choosing two different ministers. I think it was a very wise decision. However, there has been no change in your skills. You are at the same time Minister of Public Enterprises and Minister responsible for the regulation of the postal sector and the telecommunications sector with, as such, the supervision on the IBPT. This double cap is amazing and unheard of. You answered a question from Mr. Peter Dedecker on the subject earlier. In the declaration of government, you say you want to strengthen the independence of the IBPT. At the same time, you are announcing a management contract. We will return to this during the debate on your guidance note next week. Minister, do you consider that the principle of separation imposed on Ms. Galant in order to avoid any conflict of interest applies equally in your case? Or do you think there would be no conflict of interest at all? I know the distribution part was allocated to the Minister of Economy, but it's just a small part of the regulation. Do you intend to continue wearing this double hat? Aren't you afraid of the blurry between your two positions and the reproaches that can be made to you at some point on specific issues? I would remind you that in your statement there is perhaps the idea of selling parts of bpost and Belgacom. How is the independence of the IBPT enhanced if it is bound by a management contract with the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that it is necessary to separate these powers because there is no conflict of interest as the regulator, the IBPT, is sufficiently independent. It is in line with the answer I have already given to Mr Dedecker's question. The European Commission called the previous government into question because there was at the time a conflict of interest at the level of the Council of Ministers. For the Commission, the fact that these powers are the responsibility of a single minister or different ministers does not matter, since the Council of Ministers looks at important decisions collegially. The situation inherited from the past needs to be rectified as soon as possible. Therefore, I intend to introduce without delay a draft legal amendment to this House committee in order to bring the Belgian law into line with the European framework and thereby strengthen the independence of the IBPT. The IBPT will thus be able to intervene independently and will no longer have to accept ministerial interference in its strategic plan. In addition, Ministers will no longer be able to delete the decisions of the IBPT. The IBPT files on which Ministers still have a say in the future relate to staff and the budget and are still under consultation with Ministers of the Public Service and Finance. In the past, it has already been the case that the responsibilities for posts, telecoms and public undertakings are assigned to a single minister, for example Rik Daems, without any problem, as long as the IBPT can act independently vis-à-vis the Minister of Telecommunications and Post Office. In short, it is crucial that the regulator be able to control the market independently. The relationship between the IBPT and the public authorities is clearly defined in the IBPT Statute Act. Therefore, an additional management contract is not required.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic023x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answer. For dealing with public companies at that time, I don't think Rik Daems was the best minister of public companies. I still remember his win-win model for the Sabena. It seems to me that this was not the best model for our public companies. On the other hand, I believe that the decisions taken by the following governments, of which you were a member, were very wise. There can be increased autonomy on paper. However, what happens at a given time in a firm between some who deal with public enterprises and others who deal with the IBPT, particularly at the appointment level, may give rise to suspicions of conflict of interest. Both in the energy sector and in the public sector, I am arguing for two things. On the one hand, the policy still needs to have a say because a public enterprise primarily provides services to the public. However, who defines public service tasks? It is not only Europe but also a minister. And if we wanted to go back to IBPT opinions, it was essentially about public service or universal service missions. It is therefore important that the policy which must be accountable to the citizens, unlike a regulator, still has a say in all this. This is a debate that we will certainly have together, Minister. On the other hand, I think that this non-separation of powers between two ministers is a bad signal. It would, however, take away nothing from your power.
