ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u1	Questions Nos 6, 9, 12, 15 and 76 by Mrs Jadin, Nos 22 by Mrs Dierick and 152 by Mrs Temmerman are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u2	Mr Van Quickenborne is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u3	Madam President, Minister, the last few weeks and months have not been a day without a balloon being launched with regard to the use of drones. Very recently there was a doctoral study in which the idea was suggested to use drones for the rapid delivery of defibrillator devices, in order to save people's lives. In the past, for example in the field of wind technology, we have lost a lot of innovation due to the lack of a legal framework. Quite a few innovation valleys are currently involved in the development and application of drones. I myself, in the Flemish Parliament, once lanced to use drones more effectively, including in the fight against large fires, such as the heath fires in Kalmthout. Through the rapid delivery of acute images that can be filmed by a drone, the fire services quickly have accurate information without endangering human lives or the need for helicopters to arrive on the scene. I am thinking, for example, of the dramatic heath fire in which the fire services were confronted with a sudden change of direction. Precisely because of the turn of fire, a lot of officers and volunteers were in danger. That is why I say that drones can increasingly be used for many societal tasks. I once asked an interesting written question about this in the Flemish Parliament and the answer to it showed that a lot of drones are already being deployed at the moment, including by the VITO and also in the field of real estate heritage. Today it is true that quite a few monument keepers literally climb on the monuments to determine its physical state, while a drone can provide precise images in a very simple way that allow to accurately map the state of such a monument, and without having to dangle people by ropes. A similar technology is being used today in the petrochemical sector. Instead of having to climb very high fireplaces and pipes, a drone makes precise images of the safety condition and condition of the installations. Also in the fire department, which brings us more to federal matter, more and more thought is being given to the deployment of drones. We note, for example, that Anzegem's fire department, which wants to deploy drones, is banned from doing so, whereas, for example, the Genk fire department in Limburg can use drones without any problems. In other words, both from a scientific point of view and from an innovation angle and from the point of view of a new economy that could be developed, there are a lot of questions for creating a legal framework for drones, although of course the aspect of privacy should be dealt with in particular. Hence my next questions. Firstly, is the development of a legislative framework for drone deployment indeed under way today? What is the possible state of play on this issue? When are you considering coming to Parliament with a proposal? Secondly, are there any bottlenecks that have yet to be resolved? I am thinking here of the privacy regulation in this regard. Thirdly, how is it ensured that, pending the legal framework, the use of drones by emergency services, both medical services and police services and fire brigades, would be possible during the execution of their mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u4	Madam President, Minister, you are the third Minister or Secretary of State to whom I am asking questions about the legal framework for the use of drones. I hope that the third time will be a good time and that you will eventually be able to provide an adequate solution. The social applications have just been explained in detail by Mr Van Mechelen and I will not go back to that. However, the fact that our country has a number of pioneering companies and innovative economic players in the field of drones who want to market such devices and make their social applications a reality prompts us to quickly come to a good legal framework with you, as the third competent minister. Your predecessor, Secretary of State Wathelet, has promised several times that he would provide a legal framework. In response to my last question during the previous legislature, he said that the Royal Decree, which he designed to that end, would be published in 2014. To date, I do not believe that the publication has yet happened. Moreover, I am increasingly hearing comments from the field of work that the intended royal decision will not allow the drones to be deployed on a reasonable scale. In the drone field, therefore, work is on the shelf, which needs to be dealt with quickly. Here are my specific questions. What is the state of play with regard to the adaptation of the legal and regulatory framework, both at Belgian and European level? After all, Europe is also working on a legal framework. What is the state of play with regard to the Royal Decree? When is the KB expected? Will this be published effectively in 2014 as promised by your predecessor? How is the consultation period with the Regions and the Council of State going? What is the official position of Belgocontrol, an important advisory body on unmanned aviation? Belgocontrol reportedly had put out rather strict conditions such as the maximum height of 157 m and visibility for the pilot. The pilot should have his or her plane in sight at all times. Have these conditions been incorporated into the Royal Decree or are they a separate procedure? How are the contacts and consultations with the organisations and bodies concerned? Is there any consultation with the industry's association of interests and can it agree to the proposed regulation? In what way will privacy be taken into account? Will there be a minimum distance to objects or a minimum height if there is no consent or will privacy be guaranteed in any other way? Finally, what position will you take on European fora with regard to unmanned aviation?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u5	Madam President, I am not going to talk about my predecessor here. I merely note that Belgian aviation legislation does not currently contain any specific rule applicable to drones. Consequently, it is not currently possible to register, certify, fly or operate a remotely operated aircraft in Belgian airspace. I want to fix this. In this respect, I would like to give you a number of clarifications which respond to your questions and concerns. The five stages with a view to the entry into force of this draft royal decree are as follows: the opinion of the Regions with a 60-day period, the notification of the European Commission with a three-month period, the opinion of the Treasury Inspectorate, the opinion of the Budget Minister and the opinion of the Law Department of the Council of State with a 60-day period, assuming that all these phases would follow each other without any delay. There is therefore no legislative text regulating the use of drones, which prohibits any flight in Belgian airspace, except in areas approved for that purpose. The future decision thus offers wider possibilities, including those that remain within sight range and do not exceed the height of 200 ft in airspace, and which belong to category G. I will meet the non-profit organisation that defends the interests of the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u6	Madam Secretary, you support the urgency, for which I thank you. However, I think that the timing in five stages is extremely long. I would ask you, if necessary, to develop a limited regulatory framework in the short term, which will create more opportunities for our emergency services. Of course, I trust you 100% when you announce that you will be able to come here in spring 2015 with a finished proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u7	Madam Minister, I would also like to join you in thanking you for the good will you have shown to address this issue. I understand that the procedures at the Council of State and the advice of the Regions have not yet been started, although this was promised at the time by your predecessor. Of course, there is little you can do about this, but I hope that no more time is wasted and that the non-profit association is properly consulted so that the framework is not overtaken by reality. The potential of the drones extends beyond the framework within which one will have to operate in the future if the RB is to be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 188 is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament No 199, by Mrs Temmerman and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 294 by Mr Van Hecke are converted into written questions. Questions Nos 254 and 255 by Mr Pirlot are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u9	Madam President, Minister, the latest figures received regarding (in)road safety in 2014 are not very good. Compared to the same period in 2013, the number of accidents involving personal injury increased by 8.4%. Every day, it is estimated that more than 150 people are injured or killed on our roads. This is a huge number that calls for the right questions to be asked and for effective and rapid action to ensure the safety of road users. Of course, it is the weak users - cyclists, motorcyclists and pedestrians - who pay the brunt of this widespread road insecurity. In this regard, Minister, how do you explain this increase in road insecurity in 2014 compared to last year? What measures are you going to take to reduce the number of people killed and injured on our roads in the coming years? In this regard, this summer, the IBSR sent you a memorandum containing several ideas. Can you inform us if you intend to follow these proposals? Finally, what special measures will you take to ensure the safety of the weakest users such as cyclists, motorcyclists and pedestrians?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u10	Dear colleague, in comparison with the first half of 2013, Belgium recorded a considerable increase in the number of injuries and injuries during the first six months of 2014, but a stagnation in the number of fatalities on the spot. It was mainly the first quarter of 2014 that led to the worst development in the number of injuries and injuries in the first half of the year. These poor figures can, in part, be explained by the weather conditions at the beginning of 2013 and 2014. The first quarter of 2014 was much warmer and had significantly fewer days of snow and was, in addition, much brighter. Both international research on the effects of weather on accidents and the preliminary results of an ongoing IBSR study indicated that these three climatic characteristics are traditionally associated with an increase in the number of accidents. This can be partly explained by a considerable increase in the mobility of cyclists, moped riders and motorcyclists in such atmospheric conditions. It should be noted that France and Germany have experienced similar changes in the number of injuries and injuries. Belgium has, however, achieved better results in terms of the number of deaths. Europe has set itself the goal of halving the number of road fatalities by 2020. Belgium is therefore expected to increase from 841 killed in 2010 to 420 killed in 2020. This is a very ambitious objective. Some areas of road safety have been regionalized. The measures to be taken to reduce the number of deaths must therefore be taken in consultation and partnership with the Regions. It is by acting together that we will be able to make our roads safer. One of the ways that the government has raised to improve safety and user-friendliness on our roads is to combat aggressive driving and dangerous driving, by intensifying controls, particularly against alcohol abuse, drug driving and speeding. The aim in this area is that of the General States of Road Safety, i.e. to subject one in three drivers to an alcohol, drug and belt testing and to carry out 40 million speed checks. Control of the vehicle's insurance, registration and possession of a valid driving licence will also be strengthened. In addition, the government will develop a systematic plan against recidivism. In this context, it will examine the most appropriate instruments, such as an intensification of the identification of serious infringements, a faster withdrawal of the driving licence followed by a new examination, a point permit, the obligation to undergo training and an increase in fines. The government will also make a thorough simplification of the Highway Traffic Code, in close consultation with the Regions, and correct any anomalies it contains. In addition, it will undertake a new codification. In the memorandum, the IBSR advocates, on the basis of its mission and expertise, for the realization of some ten points of attention in the years to come. Some of these recommendations relate to federal matters, while others relate to the regional level. In the coming weeks, I will be working with the IBSR to examine which leads we need to follow as a priority in order to achieve the 2020 target. Finally, in response to your last question, accidents involving weak users are particularly under-recorded. It is therefore essential, as a first step, to improve their registration in collaboration with the Regions. It will now take into account not only registration with the police but also with hospitals and insurance companies. In order to take more appropriate action, it is important to better understand the cause of accidents and their consequences. This is why the government wants to promote accident studies and, as the Knowledge Centre, the IBSR could assume the role of accident institute.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u11	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u12	Madam Chair, Minister, recently, Infrabel has equipped some of its crossings with a new warning bell. In the communication campaign that accompanied this launch, this ringing is called "the sound that saves". In this regard, I would like to ask you the following questions. Has this new warning system already been installed on all of our country's level crossings? If not, when is the completion date of the installation project expected? Would it be possible to have a detailed account of the territories for which this new warning bell has already been installed? How much is the overall investment for the installation of these new warning systems? Finally, can you tell us about the other projects already identified by Infrabel that will be launched during the next legislature in order to improve the safety of railway infrastructure and thus, de facto, of passengers?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the development of the new ringtones is under way. By the end of 2015, the entire Infrabel network will be equipped. I'll give you a list of already equipped crossings. The overall investment is €2.5 million. In addition, all the information about this project is easily available via belsignal.be or lesonquisauve.be websites. Infrabel has a comprehensive action and security plan, which provides an overview of all ongoing security actions at Infrabel. In particular, it provides an overview of the projects planned under the various action plans (suicide prevention, trespassing – crossing signals and crossings). In addition, it also includes the deployment of the TBL1+ system and the new European ETCS security system. This plan is reported quarterly to Infrabel's management bodies and is part of Infrabel's security management system.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u14	Madam Minister, thank you for sending me the list. I'll get to know it with great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u15	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a few days after the Linkebeek rail accident, information about the victims and their care is beginning to arrive. They are sufficiently intriguing to justify my questions. The handling of injured or uninjured passengers does not seem to have been optimal in some respects, or even non-existent in some cases. Indeed, there are several elements to be noted. This is, for example, the lack of information attested by a number of evacuees, left unclear as to what had just happened. Even more serious, it appears that follow-up and psychological support to passengers have not been optimally organised. Can you confirm that the identity of the persons on the train was not identified, as one witness interviewed in the press on November 6 indicated? Can you also tell me what the obligations of Infrabel and SNCB are included in the management contract for the support and follow-up of victims in railway accidents? If it is confirmed that nothing has been undertaken, possibly because the management contract does not provide for it, in the case of the Linkebeek accident, how can we ensure that such a situation does not happen again? Under the emergency plan, what is the division of labour between SNCB and Infrabel, both of which are likely to have a psychologist service capable of supporting victims? As you can understand, my questions are not so much about the accident as about the follow-up of the injured or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u16	Mr. Cheron, the collision took place at 1.29 p.m. and was confirmed at 1.34 p.m. Emergency services (call number 112) were called by the SNCB Security Operational Centre at 1336. The various emergency services (police, firefighters, ambulances) arrived at the scene between 1:45 p.m. and 2:01 p.m. and immediately took care of the passengers. It should be noted that the attendant of the train, although she herself injured the wrist and shocked, launched the necessary alarms and took care, to the extent of her possibilities, of the injured and shocked passengers while waiting for the arrival of the rescue. In particular, she asked them to go calmly to the front of the train in order to secure them. People injured and shocked in an accident are generally taken care of by the rescue services. In the case of the Linkebeek accident, the medical intervention was in real time and therefore all the victims were transferred to the nearby hospitals under the responsibility of the 100 - Samu service. The mayor of Linkebeek felt that the impact of the accident did not require the emergency plan to be triggered. Had it been triggered, the responsibility for psychosocial support to victims would have raised, under the terms of the Royal Decree of 16 February 2006 on emergency and response plans, the services of Discipline 2, which are dependent on public health. Third-party companies such as SNCB have a second-line support role and only intervene in the event of longer-term intervention. The establishment of the list of victims also falls under Discipline 2, while the identification of the victims is usually carried out by the police authorities. Since the rules on intervention in the event of an accident are governed by the Royal Decree referred to above, there is no specific obligation in management contracts between the State on the one hand and SNCB and Infrabel on the other. With regard to the division of labour between SNCB and Infrabel, since the 2014 reform, SNCB has been responsible for the reception and information of travellers, including in the event of a crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u17	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for the accuracy of her response. I conclude that there is no provision for monitoring by SNCB in management contracts. It's a surprise for me! I hear the emergency plan has not been decreed, so there has been no follow-up. I think we will have an opportunity to discuss this at the time of the discussion of management contracts, because I find this to be a bit strange.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u18	Madam President, Madam Minister, following the roadshows organized by SNCB to present the new transportation plan for the Walloon Brabant, we had communicated various comments and requests to adapt the plan. Our requests included more specifically the maintenance of the direct lines between Ottignies and Brussels (line 140 Charleroi-Fleurus-Ottignies-Brussels) and between Wavre and Brussels (line 139 Wavre-Ottignies-Brussels), the increase in the supply of trains between Louvain-la-Neuve and Brussels since a brand new car park is under construction in Louvain-la-Neuve, implying that probable future commuters will choose to take the train to Brussels, and the rapid and concrete introduction of this RER which the Brabanons Walloons have already expected too much. Minister, can you tell me if our requests have been met by SNCB to adjust its transportation plan? What does the investment plan 2014-2025 envisage in terms of the renovation of the stations in Walloon Brabant? Finally, what will be the concrete impact of this new transport plan for the Walloon Brabant province?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the SNCB's new transport plan has been designed for a period of three years. The problem of direct trains to Brussels starting from lines 139 and 140 and the constraints associated with the work of the RER, particularly for the service of Louvain-la-Neuve, have been developed twice by SNCB as part of the roadshows which took place in Wavre in front of the elected representatives of the province of Brabant Wallon. As a reminder, depending on the phases of work planned by Infrabel at the station of Ottignies, it will no longer be possible for a train to come from line 139 Louvain-Ottignies or from line 140 Charleroi-Ottignies and to continue its journey on line 161 towards Brussels. The service was designed in response to these constraints. A new 2,500-seat car park is under construction in Louvain-la-Neuve. The December 2014 offer still provides for three RER relations per hour, of which only one direct to Brussels. The other two connections run by shuttles between Louvain-la-Neuve and Ottignies and are in correspondence with IC relations to Brussels and Namur. This offer makes it possible to transport more than 1,500 passengers every hour of peak time and must be able to absorb the customers of the car park. The increase in supply will only be possible when the four tracks between the Louvain-la-Neuve bifurcation and the Ottignies station are actually available. Improvements in the province of Walloon Brabant include: the addition of an IC Dinant-Brussels relationship that will serve the Ottignies station and improve the offer to both Brussels and Namur; the addition of a IC Charleroi-Brussels-Luxembourg relationship that will serve the stations of Nivelles, Lille, Braine-l'Alleud and Waterloo and that will be extended to the airport when the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel is operational, i.e., in principle, in December 2015. Finally, with regard to line 140, following the requests expressed during the roadshows, it was possible to extend an additional L train, in the morning peak, to Wavre and a return train, in the evening peak, from that same city in order to improve the connections between line 140 and Wavre.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u20	Madam Chair, Minister, I am pleased to hear that these meetings have been useful: changes have still been made. With regard to the timing of the Louvain-la-Neuve RER project, do you have any clarifications?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u21	If you have a question on a different subject, you have to file your question and the minister will answer it. In fact, Mr. Maingain had asked this question, but he is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u22	Madam President, Madam Minister, SNCB and Infrabel have a lot of figures on the day-to-day operation, for example the number of people arriving and leaving at the various stations. These figures are useful, among other things, to study the flow of passengers and to offer more tailor-made infrastructure, including the number of parking spaces, bicycle storage, equipment, extension of stations and the like. These figures are also interesting for the modal shift, to get an overview of the different modes of transport that people use. The figures are therefore interesting for all kinds of reasons, including for the different partners of SNCB, such as the municipal authorities and the travel associations. There seems to be a problem in making these figures available. Apparently, the data is only shared with project partners to implement specific projects, but it is not intended to share those figures with the general public or various interest groups. However, we are convinced that the publication of these figures could contribute to the transparency of a public undertaking such as the railways and also to a wider public debate. On the basis of the figures, a better transport policy can be pursued. Madam Minister, is it possible to make figures such as the number of passengers leaving and their different modes of transport more accessible? What are the possible arguments not to do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that it would agree to make the figures relating to the number of passengers leaving stations public.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u24	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for that positive reply. I think that the various travel organizations, as well as the municipal authorities, will find that very useful. Madam Secretary, could you put forward a deadline for that publication?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u25	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u26	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u27	Madam President, Madam Minister, in a press release dated 31 October, the City of Ghent, urban development company and SNCB announced that they will develop the Wiedauwkaai business area together in the coming years. A sustainable business area for SMEs is of course always interesting, it is good for our economic development and for creating jobs, just the priorities set by this government. That is why this project receives the full support of the Flemish Government and the Federal City Policy. I found it a little strange to find the SNCB with those partners. There is no mention of what SNCB has to do with this, and I wonder to what extent this is a core task of SNCB. That is why I have the following questions for you, Madam Secretary. At which locations does SNCB still participate in such developments? Is this the first time or does it happen several times? How exactly does it work? What contribution is being made to such projects? In this case it is an old area of SNCB that is being developed. How exactly will that work? Does SNCB place that ground in a new company and will SNCB be able to participate later in the profits on sale and the like? How exactly are we going to proceed there? Do people have staff to do project development? Eurostation did, but for SNCB it is something else. Are such projects, in your view, a core task of SNCB and how does the decision-making process proceed for participation in such projects? Is there a separate organisational structure for this? You know that SNCB is a house with many rooms, a company with many daughters, and I would have liked to know if there is a separate organisational structure for the development of sites and business areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Wiedauwkaai business area is the only location where such cooperation has been established and this is because a Flemish grant was awarded in 2006 for study work to achieve the redesign of the site as a business site. A brownfield covenant was also concluded for the site in 2009. As far as your second and third questions are concerned, the intervention of SNCB is limited to the planned context, the specific arrangements for marketing and the selling price. For this purpose, a cooperation agreement was concluded with the city of Ghent and sogent. The valorisation of the entire site is done by sogent within the arrangements. The mandate was given to sogent. Therefore, no additional staff of SNCB was deployed. SNCB's intervention was managed by Real Estate, Stations Directorate. It is one of SNCB's tasks to make best use of the areas no longer required for the performance of public service tasks, and this cooperation was the most efficient way of doing so. The competent authorities of SNCB shall examine the opportunity as it arises and submit dossiers to the competent bodies of SNCB. For such a file, it is the Management Board that decides. The first decision dates from 19 December 2008. The cooperation agreement with the City of Ghent and Sogent was approved by the Governing Board on 28 March 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed reply. In short, I note that this is actually a sale of unnecessary or no longer necessary land. The fact that this is done in a rather interesting way by valorisation for SNCB and under project management of sogent is a good thing in itself, both for SNCB and for the economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u30	Madam Minister, I have repeatedly questioned your predecessors on this subject, which has, moreover, a long history. At the end of May 2006, the regional and federal transport ministers and the then State Secretary for Public Enterprises concluded a protocol agreement with the aim of having a unique ticket for public transport by 2010. That ticket became the MOBIB card, an electronic chip card that would be used as a ticket by all public transport companies in our country. It has also been used since May 2008 by STIB Brussels and since March 2013 partly for SNCB subscriptions. In the future, De Lijn van Vlaanderen, TEC van Wallonia and Villo too! of the Brussels Region with the MOBIB map. In the context of chain mobility, which can be switched seamlessly from one means of transport to another, it is very important that all public transport companies in Belgium use the map. It would greatly improve the comfort of the travellers. I was in London last weekend using the Oyster card. This card makes it very easy to switch from one public transport system to another. I believe that we too must move in this direction quickly. What is the status and timing of SNCB to extend the MOBIB card to all tickets and subscriptions? What is the state of play and the timing of De Lijn, TEC and Villo? to use the MOBIB card? Will it be possible to load a certain budget on the MOBIB card, so that it can be used for, for example, paying a bus ride? If so, when? Today there are travellers with a SNCB subscription to such a chip, but they cannot use it for a bus ride. I believe that it is important to make that possible. Other transport providers will also be able to join the project in the future. I am thinking, for example, of organisers of bicycle or car part systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u31	In 2015, SNCB will migrate the Jumpcard, which is valid in Brussels, to MOBIB. It will also focus on the migration of all MOBIB cards that are already in circulation into a new data model that can also be used for banknotes. The full migration of SNCB subscriptions combined with TEC subscriptions is planned for 2015. The migration of SNCB banknotes to MOBIB is planned in the course of 2016. The acceptance of MOBIB cards by SNCB and SNCB by TEC is planned from 1 February. This function is provided for by BMC, the joint subsidiary of the four operators responsible for transversal projects. It should be implemented by SNCB in 2017. STIB, TEC and De Lijn can specify their own planning. The BMC discusses the possibility of the acceptance of partners other than the public transport companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u32	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I understand that you have not yet been able to play an important role in this, given the recent nature of your position. I believe, however, that it is important to be a driving force behind this. After all, it all takes a long time. This is not, of course, a consequence of your personal policy, but of your many predecessors and many other ministers at other levels. When I find that a princess agreement was already concluded in 2006, we should have been farther in 2014, while today's unique ticket is only half and half operational. I hope that things will be speeded up in the next few years. It can only promote the use of public transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u33	I would just like to recall that I was sworn in on October 11. In the meantime, I have not been able to make up for all the delays that my predecessors have made.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic017x.u34	Questions Nos. 283 and 284 by Mr. Maingain are transformed into written questions.
