ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u2	The discussion of the Government's statement is resumed. The discussion of the government statement is resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u3	Mr President, Mr Jamar, Minister for Budget, promised us the figures. We thought we'd have them on our bench. We have arrived well on time to discover the budget tables, to know what is behind the words and 230 pages of the government agreement. Obviously, we have not received anything yet! Or maybe we're distributing them? I wanted to know whether the commitment made by the Budget Minister would be respected this early afternoon so that the further debate could be organized with knowledge of the matter. We need to stop hiding these numbers, we need to be able to broadcast them here in session.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u4	The Minister for Budgets is here, and I give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u5	Mr President, I am pleased that Mr Nollet is speaking on this issue because I have asked him for five years for figures on photovoltaics and I have still not received them! But we are too complicit to fall into controversy. However, it must be understood that, at 12.15 p.m., I still did not have the communications, according to the authorized bodies, of entities 2. Mrs Onkelinx tells me, and I would trust her, that this has been addressed, but I do not have the confirmation of this from the official bodies. What I mean is that the figures were agreed in Kern this morning, which ended at 9:59 a.m. They are being transposed and put into shape for Europe. There is still a minimum time limit within the framework of the communication. I did say that these pieces would be distributed as soon as possible. I am assailed by the questions of journalists who have sometimes saugrenus figures, from which I do not know where they come from. I also believe that we need to be able to make the difference between a show in parliament and the desire to have exact figures, on which we can discuss. We had two interventions by opposition group leaders, including Ms Onkelinx, who spoke at length. We have also heard from other parliamentarians. But, like the government as a whole, I would like to hear the statements on the substance. The figures will be distributed to you as soon as possible from a technical and material point of view, in accordance with the legislative requirement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u6	Mr. President, we have to stop playing cat and mouse in this case. The federal figures are clearly known and decided since 10:00 a.m. Words must be translated. But in this case, these are figures and they are the same in the north and south of the country. Translation is therefore not necessary. It's 2:30. We still do not know when we will have access to these figures. I am referring here to the figures for Entity 1. Indeed, the figures for Entity 2 should be transmitted to us later in the day, which is not a problem. But with regard to your responsibility, the one that commits the federal part of the state today, you will not be able, Mr. Jamar, to hide behind Entity 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u7	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u8	Mr Jamar, you must also bear the budgetary impact and the concrete consequences of the measures you propose. You are trying to ensure that the debate is only about principles. But when we know the concrete consequences, the impact of the measures you are advocating, but also – and here you are right – the measures taken by Entity 2, we will be able to intervene in this chamber to denounce these measures in substance. At the moment, there are principles, but we want to be able to calculate precisely, on the basis of the figures you are putting forward, the consequences of the measures you are proposing. These will no longer be mere questions of intent, etc. We are now waiting for the budget table for the federal part and, earlier, the budget table for the regional part.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u9	The Minister responded to questions on this subject. Technically, everything possible is being done to get the numbers here. If this is technically impossible, then I think we should accept it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u10	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u11	I assume that the figures still need to be put into tables and that we will get them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u12	Mr President, I simply note that the Minister said this morning, at about 11 a.m., that we would receive everything within two hours and that the opposition should remain silent. However, the figures are still not available. Maybe someday they'll come.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u13	That fix is on you. I note that the Minister has promised to do everything technically possible to get the figures into this assembly. I suggest that we continue the debate. Mr Ducarme has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it has been ten years since any government in this country was put in place in time for the start of the second Tuesday in October. Ten years! Mrs Onkelinx, you said in your speech that we would enter into areas of turbulence. However, we are emerging from ten years of political crises. Even if you are in opposition, it should also satisfy you, given the sense of the State you are known to be. The Belgians, in fact, knew that after the elections they would take it for months before a federal government was set up. Each time, the country was put at risk: crisis in 2007, crisis in 2010. Belgium was a subscriber to the crises! But in 2014, and we feel some pride in the MR, the Michel government ruled out...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u15	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u16	I'm sorry to be proud, Mr. Wathelet, for avoiding an umpteenth crisis, an umpteenth block in this country. Does that make you laugh? On the other hand, these successive crises did not make Belgians laugh! Yes, this government has ruled out a new and endless crisis. Mr Wathelet, you seem to be nostalgic about this period; that is regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u17	Nostalgic people are the people around you!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u18	That's what the deserter says? Finally, the executive is restarting. The country is no longer blocked. At the end of the federal training process, events took place with the sole aim of giving our country, as soon as possible, an exclusively socio-economic government with solutions. Mrs. Onkelinx, you spoke before me. I apologize for drawing on your reflections on a number of elements that are likely to be part of the debate and that will enrich, I hope, our confrontation. You said we were "churchillians."
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u19	No, I said you had churchillian accents.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u20	If it's just accents... Above all, you told us that the situation was not dramatic, at least as we dramatized it, that the situation was not serious. Is that also the speech you want for more than 500,000 unemployed people? That's what you said earlier; I listened to your comments. But yes, the situation is serious and more than 500,000 unemployed are aware of it every day. In this majority, thanks to this political stability, thanks to the economic and social project carried out by this government, we want to give as many people as possible the opportunity to return to work. Political stability is essential and some seem to have paid little attention to it after the elections. They themselves have laid the foundations for a Community crisis. Some have wanted – probably because they can more easily exist in this scheme – to put chaos, division and block again on the political agenda by precipitating the establishment of regional majorities that threatened the very idea of still being able to form a federal government in this country. But there was a burst! And we can only greet him. He intervened in four political formations at the heart of the summer. It consisted of establishing a federal majority in the Belgian Parliament. We've got it! Without this sense of the state, there would be no government or compliance with our budgetary commitments today, Mrs Onkelinx. It makes you laugh, but yesterday you were screaming! Today, you laugh. Choose! Without these commitments, our country's economy would have suffered. Social protection, Mrs Onkelinx, which benefits the entire population, would be in danger. That would have been the reality of this country if this majority had not taken up its responsibilities quickly! In July, there was no plan B in Sweden and some, no doubt, were relying on a new 541-day crisis scenario, a country still blocked, a waltz of failed negotiations. These predictions have been denied. We not only have a government, but we have a good government. Every day, you can see it. A good government that has finally been able to turn its back on immobilism, make real choices, tell the truth and find solutions!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u21	As regards the Community aspect, the national tear, the Community issues are clearly set aside. There is no line, not a word of these elements in our program. Have you read our program? I don't know! Our programme has more than 200 pages with real reforms, which will take no one by surprise, the necessary reforms that our country needs, socio-economic reforms and societal reforms. These 200 pages are concrete, precise. These are not words but actions to come. The problems are identified. Methodically, solutions are provided. As the Prime Minister said, we see the way. There is a clear direction, a course based on reform commitment, responsibility and solidarity. Responsibility and solidarity. We will do what is necessary to ensure the socio-economic recovery of this country, we will do what is necessary despite some. We will do so to protect existing jobs, create new jobs and ensure social protection. To this social protection, all Belgians, all the political formations of this majority hold to it. If we don't do anything, she's now in danger. It is always possible not to see the dangers, to plunge your head into the sand, or even to put people's heads in the sand, to rock the opinion of illusions. However, when our companies suffer from such a handicap of competitiveness, when they are subjected to such competition, when the weight of ageing weighs so much on our finances, immerse themselves in the sand, making politics – a little as some did yesterday in these places – it is simply criminal for the country and the Belgians. All right, I'm correcting: that's what has criminal accents. The MR Group therefore supports, with all its strength and determination, the government's choice to lower the cost of labour by almost EUR 4 billion, EUR 4 billion to protect and create jobs. Mrs. Onkelinx, does that make you laugh? Good if the opposition can find here a nice little side; I congratulate you. A sum of 4 billion euros to do this, it's never seen!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u22	Mr. President, a little reflection. For some time now, I have heard of the need for a reduction in the burden of labour costs. Everyone agrees on this point, but how can you guarantee that these reductions will not simply be used to enrich shareholders, but will create real jobs? That's the real question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u23	Mr Thiébaut, we want to take advantage of these 4 billion reductions in the cost of labour for all Belgian companies. That is the meaning of our policy of general interest. We have to get out of the caricatures!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u24	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u25	You're criticizing acts of faith. Acts of faith are important, you know, at times like these. Mr Thiébaut, you tell us that everyone agrees. Is everyone okay? I don't think so, because a drop in charges as large as that would have been impossible with you. Don't tell me everyone agrees! That's just not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u26	I know that Mr. Ducrame likes to do animation, and it amuses us. All this is extremely interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u27	The animation was on your side yesterday, Mr. Frédéric!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u28	For the time being, you are informing us of a number of intentions. You come with a concrete example: the reduction of loads. My colleague is asking you a question and you're going into lyrical flights worthy of Bouglione. You are asked a simple question: how are you going to force businesses to create jobs with the tax benefits you're going to give them? It's a simple question: how? I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u29	I give the floor to Minister Peeters. (...): You are not the president of parliament!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u30	Mr President, I would like to make a small contribution to the debate on labour costs and job creation. This is a very difficult debate, because there is not always a causal link. That is why we attach great importance to social dialogue. In the competitiveness pact we are now going through, the 450 million decided by the previous government, an important and wise decision, there was no direct link between the reduction of costs and the creation of jobs. The previous government also had the wisdom to realise that we cannot impose the creation of jobs, although we will do everything we can with the social partners to make this possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u31	Mr President, we have actually made structural reductions in loads, partly linear. It's always a compromise, but you know that's not my choice. We have also made reductions in targeted charges. The Plan Office or the National Bank also say: to create jobs, you need to target! I explained earlier that the method you used, which is to decrease facially from 33 to 25 – although we know that it is no longer 33 and that there are curves – means that low wages, which are already below 25, do not benefit from the reduction in social contributions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u32	Mr President, this is a debate which we would like to continue, both in committee and at the time when the issue of Work will be discussed here. Mrs Onkelinx, we have, of course, also taken explicit account of the situation of low wages. In terms of employers' contributions, they are below 25%. We will ensure that this situation does not deteriorate. They will also receive due attention in the Competitiveness Pact. Mrs Onkelinx, by the way, there was no condition in the competitiveness pact for the amounts released by the previous government, which is also wise. You cannot blame us for going through the previous government's decision, namely 3 x 450 and the adjustment of this in the employer's contribution, particularly from 33% to 25%, while ensuring that low wages do not go down. I hope that I will have the opportunity to explain the dossier of tables, if you like them, as well as drawings and graphs.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u33	I tried to work on the basis of the background data you mentioned. It can be seen that for a gross salary of less than 2,300 euros, wages will not benefit from the reduction you propose. So you're "retaliating" your job creation goal.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u34	Mr Ducrame, you introduced your point by saying that there was an important consensus in this Parliament that the cost of labour was a problem. I would like to inform you that two Members of this House see work as part of the solution and not as part of the problem and do not adhere to the liberal dogma that the cost of work is the problem of our economy. I would like to ask you a very clear question. Since the 1980s, when you were a member of the various radical right-wing governments, workers' social contributions have been reduced by 7 to 8 billion euros. Can you give me proof that this reduction in "social contributions" which you have renamed "employers' charges" for ideological reasons has created some kind of employment?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u35	Mr President, I think this is a very important debate. This government says that these burdens should be reduced and, in fact, everyone agrees. Again, almost all investigations and also our own Planning Agency state that this reduction is best made in the lowest wages. Minister Peeters is now saying it's in there. Mr Vice Prime Minister, in that case you will do nothing for the lowest wages, because that was already in it. After all, the previous government had already decided that. Now you say that employers' contributions for the others are falling from 33% to 25%, and I wonder if you will be able to receive EUR 900 million. However, where most job creation is possible, namely at the lowest wages, you do nothing, because you say that this has already happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u36	Mr President, the debate we are having today is in line with the debates we have already initiated this morning. Especially when we are following current events, it is logical that we should also exhaust this debate. Mr Vice-Prime Minister, I have read the coalition agreement very carefully and it says that the existing benefits must not be lost. Since it's written in black and white, that can't be a surprise for anyone. However, this is not mentioned as a problem either. The following two problems arise with regard to fiscal reform: The first problem remains, in my view, a very serious one. You say that you want social peace and also a future plan, so I hope that this problem can be discussed. For the time being, however, you are making a choice for a linear reduction in labour costs from 33 % to 25 %. Mr Van Biesen is satisfied with this and this has to do with his social perspective and his ideology. However, people who study job creation and purchasing power, such as the Planning Bureau and the Supreme Council of Finance, say that you need to cycle, that you need to focus on the lowest and middle incomes. The second problem with wage measures is the following. This was created during the negotiations. If one sits together for a long time, there will be some sort of Stockholm syndrome. You have made a mistake between the fight against high wage costs, the radically high labour costs, amounting to EUR 102 billion a year, a battle that must be fought, and the fight against wages itself. I am referring to the index jump as a fundamental problem, because it does not reduce the wage burden, but lowers wages themselves. If you genuinely want to make a future plan and hand it over, I invite you to re-examine these two fundamental problems with the social partners. It can be much better and much more just in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u37	Mr Calvo, we will be able to discuss this at length. For my fellow Members, I would like to point out that there are different elements. Firstly, there is the index jump. It's been corrected. We have already discussed this in detail. Secondly, there is the extension of what the previous government has decided: three times 450 million euros, the first of which will be combined in 2016. In this way, we will be able to reduce costs to a total of 960 million. Thirdly, there is the employer's contribution, which should be reduced from 33% to 25%. This objective is also being pursued by us. Those last two elements need to be clicked together. Mrs. Onkelinx has shown a schematic. There are also other schemes, because it is important to know what the slope will look like, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, where there are many middle wages and low wages. I can assure you that we will implement this reduction in the burden of wages in a very sensible way, so that certainly the low wages do not get any worse compared to what was decided by the previous government but was not implemented, namely three times EUR 450 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u38	Mr President, I come back to Mr Ducrame's profession of faith. He was being questioned, but I thank the minister for his reply! I would like to take up the statements made by the President of the Walloon Business Union in today's Echo: "It's not because someone is going to cost 30% less that I'm going to need him". That's what we told you. At some point, reductions in expenses must be conditioned on additional jobs, not on faith occupations.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u39	It's not a profession of faith. This is a debate about a government agreement. You do not seem to understand, or do not want to understand, that this government's first obsession will be to create jobs. You know well that the tax burden on work in our country is one of the most important. We therefore believe that we need to lower the cost of work to give our businesses the tax and parafiscal air that will create jobs. We assume it is an obsession for this government, without being doctrinal, without being ideological, simply by being pragmatic. That is the way we must take to meet this need in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u40	Mr Ducrame, I can hear you and I have also heard the Deputy Prime Minister on reducing the burden on businesses. For the past two days, we have been constantly quoted this figure of 4 billion. I am not going to give you my figures, but those of Christine Lhoste, the Secretary General of the Union of Middle Classes. You look at the situation only with what you're saying, maybe it's your numbers, but when you take into account the other measures that you've chosen, you find that they completely offset the relief of burdens for businesses. I am particularly interested in the coverage of the period of illness of workers, which goes up to two months. Ms Lhoste calculated that in 2012, it was a cost of €3 billion. Today, with the measures included in your government agreement, it costs twice as much as $6 billion. So, what you give on one side, you take it off the other. And if you add the fact that you will directly touch the middle classes, since there will obviously be no correction of the index jump,... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u41	Deputy Prime Minister, I see that Mr Ducarme would like to respond. Besides, he knows Mrs. Lhoste well. I have no doubt that he will not question his words. So I was saying that when you don't compensate for index jumping for the middle classes, it reduces purchasing power. This therefore reduces consumption. And this is obviously not beneficial to small and medium-sized enterprises. You are trying to make it seem that you have decided on extremely large amounts of reductions, but you are not saying that what you give with one hand, you take it with the other, through other measures that will weigh very heavily on employers. It is not in this way that you will allow them to grow and create additional jobs. On the contrary!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u42	Mr President, I would like to emphasise that this is a maximum amount of EUR 354 million. We are well aware of the sensitivity of employers and especially small and medium-sized enterprises. Some say that we have only listened to the employers, but that is not right and this is an example of this. Having said that, we would also like to discuss this in order to properly implement the modalities. Mrs Fonck, the maximum amount is 354 million, but not the figure you mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u43	I don't have a problem answering you. It's a government agreement. In this chamber, we often find that when a minister is not there, the opposition screams. In relation to this government agreement, you have the ministers in hand, but it doesn't suit you either. I think the Deputy Prime Minister's answer has been specific. I think you might be happy at that time that under a government agreement there is a Deputy Prime Minister to give you all the details of the agreement. We can keep playing this little politics game. We can go back to yesterday, but you have an answer that is precise and I think that the fact that the answer comes from the Deputy Prime Minister is quite interesting for the opposition as regards its need for precision.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u44	In relation to your comments here, Mr. Ducrame, it must be noted that since this morning, every time we have answers, it is on the part of the President of the CD&V, from the Deputy Prime Minister CD&V, but never from the MR.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u45	You will naturally have the answers that will come from the MR and the Prime Minister. You'll get them. But there's one thing I don't understand: you flatter the CD&V. We had to join him, so we had to go up with him. If I can sue... you're nice, Mrs. Lalieux, I can hear you so far. You're more friendly than last night. And so just for that, you'll allow me to thank you. It is therefore four billion lower labour costs. We have to take on this policy. There'll be an index jump. There will be one, socially corrected, with a wellness envelope that will fly beyond 100%. The Di Rupo government had executed 60 per cent. This majority will make an additional half a billion over the term of the legislature. Half a billion more social. More social than you. You can applaud the MR. Go on! We'll have half a billion more social than you in relation to this element. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u46	It hurts you, doesn't it? It hurts you that a majority of center-rights are more social than you are. I understand you've only been up to 60%. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u47	Go on, Mr. Ducrame.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u48	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u49	What's certain is that we'll never have as collabo as you do. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u50	You deserted the voter's choice. You deserted the federal. You have deserted (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u51	Colleagues, I suggest that we continue to listen to Mr Ducarme. Mr. Ducrame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u52	You know, we can have a number of disagreements. It's the political game that wants it. We're probably going to experience some tension. Our arguments will no doubt be opposed, and our attitudes will be frank. Having said that, I reiterate our call yesterday for dignity in our discussions. When a profit president says that, I think it's pulling politics down, it's pulling this parliament down, it's pulling the whole country down. Of course, we will be firm and answer you, but there are limits that we will not cross. On the budgetary front, to go back to more prominent things - if you will, Mr Lutgen - the government has made choices. This competitive effort was impossible without the easing of the fiscal trajectory until 2018. The government will defend him before the Commission. This should not be a problem, because it will see that we are finally producing the necessary structural reforms. It is therefore not just a budget for a year; it is a five-year road map, without a general increase... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u53	You're gonna get them, the numbers! You'll never get them this quickly! It is therefore a five-year road map, without a general increase in VAT, without taxation of rents, without a crisis contribution. Mrs. Onkelinx, I listened to you very carefully, and I took some specific notes. It is a delight to hear you in this rostrum; I would not miss a suspicion! You told us that this right-wing government... no! It's center-right. We are liberals! What are you trying to do with your cartoons, like the release of your party president on the "ultradroit"? You're trying to scare people, Mrs. Onkelinx. Your cartoons draw political analysis down. Let us try, please, to go beyond that! Yes, the burden on capital increases with this centre-right government. Yes, there will be more taxation on stock exchanges and banks. We are centre-right, and yet we have opted for these measures. These are the realities of this government agreement. Please stop your caricatures in this matter!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u54	Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Ducrame a technical question. You say that the centre-right government that you are – strange, you were already holding these words under the former legislature, but we are not at a close contradiction – foresees an important intervention on capital. Can you give me the figure to be reached, as part of this government's trajectory, including the new initiatives, to achieve balance? Can you tell me the percentages in terms of expenditures and revenues?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u55	Mr President, I observe that it is those who are sitting who speak the most and not those who are standing.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u56	Mr President, I would like to answer Mrs Onkelinx. It is about 11 billion to achieve a balance in 2018 and a ratio that has also been applied at other levels, i.e. 70% on the expenditure side and 30% on the revenue side. This is exactly 74 percent on the expenditure side and 26% on the revenue side, including new policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u57	Here are the details that have been provided to you, Mrs. Onkelinx! You said that we were already talking about centre-rights during the last legislature. It is true that your opposition is much more left-wing than when you were in charge.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u58	You're debunking big sentences, but you're not technically able to justify the slightest sentence you're saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u59	There! That is why the government is also present. It is not because I am not able to give you technical clarification, but simply because it is his role. Earlier, the Minister of Budget spoke and you didn't even listen to him; you were constantly interrupting him. We therefore continue in a pattern quite comparable to yesterday's. I have the impression that in terms of great sentences, Mrs. Onkelinx, I still have a lot to learn from you. A lot!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u60	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u61	You're saying you answered exactly? We'll be able to check in again, if you like. Frankly, you were talking about platitude? I heard you earlier: all that appears in your speech, Mrs Onkelinx, is a resentment, the resentment of being on the benches of the opposition. Mrs Onkelinx, you are in pain and I understand, because you have been a minister for a very long time. It had to stop at one point: alternation has its rights. In our country, the Socialist Party does not have to remain in power for 25, 50 years or a century. Mrs. Onkelinx, did you meet yesterday? Did you have the opportunity to observe how you reacted? If this is not grudge, what is it? The problem is that you forgot what it was like to be in the opposition! And you may have especially forgotten what it was like to lead a worthy opposition. That's where the problem is! Five years of projects, five years of stability, five years without chaos, Mr Lutgen – chaos that you may have wanted in your political formation –, five years to rebuild our economy, to reduce the tax burden. In short, five years to work, to give air to our country, to gather the Belgians. Indeed, for a number of weeks, we have sometimes felt that we would like to put them against each other. We are in the Belgian Parliament trying to bring the Belgians together around a shared project. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u62	Yes, we have projects and these projects, we will carry them out. You will be here to discuss it with us, but we will, Mrs. Onkelinx, chart our way. We're going to take action. We will achieve our goal. I hope you will be there, as well as a number of opposition parties, more worthy than Mr Lutgen was today! More worthy than the Socialist Party was yesterday! Beyond these fundamental elements related to job creation, linked to the preservation of social security, we have also been able to generate, at the level of the Reform Movement, a number of proposals that we made in the May elections. Yes, we got a lot of things. I won't be able to quote them all. I will still take up the displeasing of authorized work, the equalization of pensions for the self-employed. They're important to us. When I heard you earlier, Mrs. Onkelinx, I felt you didn't always like them! But these independents are creating wealth in our country and, of course, we will ensure, within the framework of these government agreements, that we meet what we have committed ourselves to. We will also ensure that we liberalize overtime, telework and the time savings account. In the area of Justice and Economy, we also met with some important proposals that we had made in the electoral campaign. Several colleagues will be able to detail them. We will continue to commit ourselves to a number of issues, which are dear to the heart of reformers. For years we have been proposing to set up the minimum service in prisons, at the level of SNCB! All this will finally be possible because we will no longer be blocked, as we have been for too long! We will, of course, continue to commit ourselves to asylum and immigration control. We will ensure, as we have committed ourselves to it, the tranquillity of the Brussels people. We want a solution for the residents around the Brussels-National airport. We committed ourselves to this during the election campaign. We get it! The right of foreigners to vote for all elections, we get it! An active fight against radicalism, we get it! A real policy for the victims, we get it! Language balance at the level of National Defence is also included in the agreement, as well as the National Security Council, the fight against social dumping, a plan against poverty. As part of the overall negotiations with this majority, we have had at heart to really build a number of common objectives, which are essential for our country. All of these commitments, all of our steps - this has been said and must be repeated - we will ensure that they are carried out, as far as possible, in a spirit of social consultation. In the context of these social dialogue negotiations, we want to involve the actors fully. We want to bring the Belgians together. We really wish, given the responsibility of this Parliament, that the debate can rise, that it rise a little higher than yesterday! We'll argue. We'll talk. For our part, you will see that we intend to continue, despite everything, to carry on, to raise this Parliament, to raise politics. For the past two days, the full demonstration has been that we need to raise the policy more than you have been able to do. My group will fully assume its responsibilities, support this government, and give it its confidence. It's a necessity! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, today we will disagree on many things, but perhaps we can agree on one point: the best savings this government has made are not to make Mr Ducarme a minister of this country. This debate deserves all the space. Mr Prime Minister, yesterday we had a start in minor. That is annoying and does not immediately give the most beautiful picture of politics. Today we are quite on our way to doing better. First of all, I would like to congratulate you. We have not heard much of you today, but you are about to be the prime minister of this country. In recent years, this has become a bottleneck profession. Very strange, because it's actually a wonderful job, a great challenge. Looking at the country, it is seen that it is a country with a lot of problems and challenges, with a number of files that need to be addressed urgently, but also with a lot of potential, with a lot of entrepreneurship and creativity, a country of 870 000 SMEs, a country of 30 000 start-ups every year, a country where a lot of people care for each other and where we have quality health care. One in ten of our compatriots takes care of another, is caretaker; 175 000 nurses work their backs bent every day in our hospitals for others. It is also a country where people are committed to strong public services. Take, for example, the 20 000 SNCB employees for the no less than 221 million passengers each year on our trains, although they are often absolutely uncomfortable. This is also a country full of young people with ambition in search of hope and perspective. It is the country where my grandparents came from Spain in 1960, because they knew that this country offered a great deal of perspective and had many opportunities: a country of opportunity and responsibilities, a country where one can build a future, which many people in this country want to do. It is a country that sometimes struggles with its past; we saw it yesterday, it struggles with the darkest pages of its history. I think every member of this government should seize every opportunity he has to clearly distance himself from that black page in history. It is a country that occasionally struggles with its past, and some of its fellow Members are inclined to do so, but above all it is a country that has incredibly many assets for the future and can do much better than it is today. That is our belief. It is with that attitude that we have analysed the coalition agreement. It is with the belief that this country can be better, different, more social and greener that we have looked at the coalition agreement. We did it our way. We analysed the coalition agreement on Monday, chapter by chapter. We have mentioned the positive and the negative points. That is how the Ecolo-Green Group intends to oppose it in the coming years. Prime Minister, we have not heard much of you today. It is quite bizarre, moreover, that we have not seen the presentation of your coalition agreement either. There has been no presentation of this government's coalition agreement. That is very strange, but we have already done our homework in our own way, in the way we want to do it in the years to come, in a belief that this country can do better, greener and more social. I admit that the government agreement contains a number of positive points, in particular the extension of training for workers, the adjustments made by Mrs De Block on hospital funding and the hospital landscape, and efforts on the first three workers. However, the choice in this coalition agreement is very clear. The choice is unbalanced and unjust and shows no ambition in terms of the environment and health. That is the choice that our group has already made very clearly today. It is also a very clear choice for another model of society, away from the Rhineland model, on which a top Christian Democrat recently wrote a book. It is a definite step towards an Anglo-Saxon model, where citizens are increasingly being reduced to customers, where people are being set up against each other, where there is superficiality and secrecy, and I refer to the chapter on Asylum and migration, where failure, illness and unemployment are their own fault, which is huge. I note that this government is also one of dogmas and symbols. That is very strange, because the world is changing and there are incredibly many interesting things written. I brought a book from Mr. Van Overtveldt. I don't know what year it appeared in; it's been a while, because it's already on De Slegte. It's about the Chicago School. Dear friends, the Chicago School is ready, dead and worn out. Today there are Wilkinson, Piketty, Stiglitz and closer to us Paul De Grauwe. Grab those things instead of sticking around in the dogmas and old recipes from the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u64	Mr President, Mr Calvo, just for information, which book by Paul De Grauwe do you mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u65	Mr De Roover, the recent version. Mr. Beke, it's strange that you're also defending the Chicago School, which is very strange for a middle party. It is much better, like Mr De Grauwe, to say that there is a financial crisis, an ecological and social crisis, to note that this market, that neoliberalism, should no longer be the alpha and omega of our society and to change its mind, than to continue to go for the same recipes and not to learn. So I have more respect for Mr De Grauwe, who says that the world is changing and that new things must be put on paper than the old recipes and dogmas I read in this coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u66	Mr President, Mr Calvo, you must learn to distinguish between an objective analysis of what, for example, a school represents or the personal and full agreement with it, which is something fundamentally different. When you talk about Mr De Grauwe's recent book, I have to repeat the question that has just been asked: what recent book, because there are a lot of contradictions in that too, which you may be able to explain, because I do not understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u67	I have so many things to say, I am not going to explain Mr De Grauwe's entire library. You have been very clear in your first interview last weekend; you have said very clearly what your course is and what the economic and social direction of this government is. You have already made that very clear this weekend.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u68	Mr Calvo, I think that is fundamental. It is very interesting what you say there, but I would like to have some more explanation about Paul De Grauwe, because I know several Paul De Grauwes. What book do you mean? What ideas of Paul De Grauwe do you mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u69	I will explain a lot of quotes later on in the chapter on taxation, so I will certainly get to it. However, I will let Paul De Grauwe know that you are particularly interested in him. Unfortunately, that's a few weeks late.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u70	Mr President, it is interesting to see how a right-wing majority still apparently needs to get acquainted with the ideas of an old senator of Open Vld who is now writing books in which he abandons the old dogmas. His ideas are, however, quite simple. In other words, the banks must be split up and, as André Decoster says, targeted measures must be taken. This is consistent with what 99% of all thinkers are currently saying about the economy, i.e. targeted tax cuts, etc. I'd like to bounce the ball back to Mr. Van Overtveldt. You are now Minister of Finance, but in 2012 when a ministership was not yet in place, you stated that Greece had to leave the euro. Soon, however, you will have to sit with the Greek Finance Minister. At the time, you felt that the crisis needed to get even deeper. I quote: "We need a Lehman moment." The crisis must become so great that everyone is waking up. Only when the panic strikes and there is a run on the bank in several countries will there be a Lehman moment. It's gotta get a lot worse than it is right now. I can only say that the coalition agreement is taking good steps in this direction and making it much worse for the ordinary people. We cannot agree to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u71	Mrs. Almaci, I can reassure you. I have had a very enlightening discussion with the Greek Finance Minister in Luxembourg over the last two days, and not just with him. Speaking of my books, I invite you to read my book on the end of the euro, published at the end of 2011. I have also discussed this in Luxembourg for the last two days. I made two things very clear here, hence the title The end of the euro. There were two possibilities at that time. We could go on as we were at the time, and we all agree that the euro would have gone down. You should have realized that, too. However, the option chosen was to launch structural reforms of the euro area. In this way, the euro would look so different that we would experience the end of the euro as we knew it originally. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u72	Mr President, Minister Van Overtveldt, I am going all the way back to the coalition agreement, which, in our opinion, is an agreement of symbols and dogmas. More specifically, I mentioned that it is my sincere conviction and the conviction of our group that, with this coalition agreement, we are moving towards a Belgium with more inequality, in which the prosperity there is is divided in a less fair way. We are also evolving towards a Belgium with more pollution and therefore with more health problems. Let me first consider the injustice of the agreement. Our group is focused on the future and considers the interests of future generations to be very important. That's also a bit of every green politician's mission. It is therefore clear that the budget must be put in order, which no one disputes. However, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we note that the corresponding efforts are being made in an unjust manner. This is about much more than just the index jump. Mr Peeters, on the index jump, for example, I would like to know how many people actually apply the exceptions. Our calculations show that there will be an index jump for 95% of people. That is the first example of the fact that, in our opinion, this government is unfairly dividing efforts. However, there are more examples than just the index jump. There's the pay freeze for all employees. One hundred percent of our employees, even in sectors for which there is room, will be faced with a wage freeze in the coming years. Ninety-five percent index jump and one hundred percent pay freeze. Waiting benefits are drastically abolished as well as those who work part-time and try to reconcile work and family life. Mr Beke, Mr Peeters, today the ACV has calculated for us that your measures consume the income of people working part-time, i.e. by - 23%. We have only just received these figures. It is about people who work part-time and do their best, who want to be active and who want to take care at the same time. There is the pension bonus for those who work longer and there are energy prices, where we see injustice coming back very strongly. Energy prices for ordinary citizens may rise again in the coming years; these prices are released and no longer controlled. However, there must be an energy standard for large energy-intensive companies. That is one of the many imbalances in this coalition agreement. Then there is the next step, ladies and gentlemen, because if we save on SNCB and reduce the government donation of bpost, then the mail and the train will become more expensive. There will be less investment and justice will also be less accessible, as the costs of justice will increase. That is what we read in this coalition agreement. So when it comes to injustice, there's a lot more than just the index jump. The list is long. The coalition agreement is unbalanced and will also increase inequality in this country. I find that strange, Minister Van Overtveldt. One of the authors I have just referred to, Wilkinson, has made a very simple, beautiful table entitled'more inequality', more problems'. More inequality means more illness, more school drop-out, more crime and so on. A government agreement that consciously chooses to increase inequality in this country is not good for anything. Inequality does not work, ladies and gentlemen, and is not good for anything. The coalition agreement is not only unjust and unbalanced, but also anti-environment. Little has been said about climate, environment and energy, Prime Minister. We did not hear everything about your speech yesterday, but I listened very carefully and I heard the word 'climate' drop no more than once. The government agreement does not mention Paris 2015, the important climate conference, an agreement with the future, which this generation must not miss. Paris 2015, what is that? You don't seem to know that. Belgium is already the fifth largest polluter in the world today. We were able to read that a few weeks ago. So what is this government doing in terms of mobility? It further saves on the already very weak and limited investment budget of SNCB, 2 billion a year, over the next 13 years. The government will bully the commuter and make the service of SNCB even less attractive. In a few years' time, you will be able to say that SNCB is actually not working properly and that you may have to liberalise it completely. This is what is behind it, namely the anti-environment and a clear ideological agenda, which Mr Van Overtveldt has already exposed over the past weekend. Ladies and gentlemen, the lack of climate ambition and the lack of environmental ambition are foreign to the world. The world has changed in this respect over the past ten to fifteen years. This could be an agreement of 20 years ago, but not today, in terms of the environment. A few weeks ago, four hundred thousand people came to New York to ask for a global, binding climate agreement. It was the biggest climate demonstration ever. Never before have entrepreneurs, trade unions, young people and individual citizens been so much involved in this theme. Only when they read the government agreement will they see zero climate ambition, zero ambition in the field of the environment and health. I have already said, ladies and gentlemen, that the choices made by this government are clear to us. There are still some uncertainties; Minister Jamar is still calling for the budget table. Is that table coming up?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u73	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u74	We are waiting for that budget table. Minister Borsus, I have here an article from the Walloon coalition agreement. The only numbers that appear in it are the page numbers. So that's exactly where the same thing happens. Mr President, I regret that we do not have the figures yet, because that would make the debate even more interesting. I would like to make another comment on the lack of clarity in the coalition agreement. Mr Prime Minister, have you counted how many times the word "Evaluate" is in your coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u75	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u76	Less than before? I don't think so. I didn't do the exercise until World War II, but at least you'll make it to the stage, because it's got 130 times in it. So we are not getting figures and apparently there are a lot of atoma writings with a lot of things we shouldn't know, because 130 times this government says that things will be evaluated. There is therefore a great deal of uncertainty, and I believe that the citizens and businesses are entitled to transparency and clarity. Ladies and gentlemen, although this coalition agreement is unclear, unbalanced and unjust in our view and has zero ambition in terms of climate and health, it is clear which side Mr Beke, Mrs Rutten and Mr Peeters have taken at the negotiating table, particularly on the side of the greatest capabilities, the speculators and the polluters. No one disputes, not even the citizen or the average SME, that everyone has to make a part of the effort, but that is precisely the problem: not everyone does their part. What happened to the community service for the greatest assets, my dear fellow Members? Where is the community service for those who become rich, day after day, thanks to the wealth they already have? Where did that community service go? So, Prime Minister, we are seeing quite a few losers in the coalition agreement: families, workers, young people, women, people who are already struggling today. However, there is much more than just the invoice. Mrs De Block, our group is also concerned about health. A number of reforms are being initiated, but we are concerned about the combination of a number of work measures and the lack of environmental ambition. I'm declaring myself. When we look at the labour market chapter, we see that people have to work harder, work longer, work more and that mini-jobs and flexi-jobs take their place in Belgium, today in the hospitality industry and as a next step according to the government agreement in construction and industry. Mr. Van Quickenborne nods. That kind of labour market causes even more stress and even more burn-outs. Today, one in five...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u77	Mr President, I find it a very strange argument from a party like Green, who is catalogued as a progressive party, with a group leader who is catalogued as a progressive group leader, that she opposes the fact that we allow people to work in the hospitality industry next to a permanent job or to update in the construction sector and other sectors. They are opposed to this. It is unlikely that we will not allow people who want to work that freedom. It is time for us to put the brakes on labour and give people the opportunities they want to take. That's progressiveness, that's progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u78	Mr Calvo, you say that a lot of work is stressful. Do you know what's really stressful and I know that from my previous jurisdiction? That's living in poverty. That's stressful day and night. We want to give people who want to work to move forward, to feed their children, the chance to do so. You don't call that social policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u79	Mrs De Block, you really do not need to convince our group that we need to step up our efforts to combat poverty. Who, by the way, was responsible for combating poverty in the last legislature? Who was that? That was you, Mrs. De Block. You're being put on a pedestal. You're a sympathetic madam, and I'd love to hear from you. What, however, have you done in the last five years in the field of poverty reduction? We do not want to deprive people of the opportunity to work. If you are really concerned with those people and if you really thought that those people should be able to develop, instead of cutting back on their working conditions and opting for a pervasive form of flexibilisation, you should have focused on reducing labour costs. This would be the best measure for employers and employees in the catering industry. But you choose a different model of society. That's the choice you made!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u80	Mr Calvo, you are right, I was responsible for combating poverty and I have taken many measures on the ground. I've managed to keep so many people out of poverty. If you had bothered to come to the committee and follow these measures, you would have known now.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u81	Mrs. De Block, I noticed you weren't here this morning. At that time, I said that it was always very difficult in a debate to assess the impact of economic measures, such as reductions in costs, employment, social security and poverty. It is difficult to do that properly in a parliamentary debate. That is why I referred to the opinion expressed today in De Standaard, written following a report by two researchers from the Centre for Social Policy, you and we are well-known. You weren't here this morning, Mrs. De Block. So I'll quote again what Professor Marx and Professor Van Lancker wrote today: "It's always been watchful with predictions. Everyone agrees, I suppose. However, on the basis of what we read in the coalition agreement, we will be able to experience Abba's reunion rather than poverty." I believe that we will have to be strong on our qui-vive and take a good look at what is happening. In any case, I will always take that fine article with me when I come to the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u82	Mr Calvo, just now, in your response to Minister De Block, I think you have touched on a point that is right, namely the high wage burden, particularly in the hospitality sector. You are right on that point, because wage costs must indeed go down, and we will do so effectively. What you say, however, is in stark contrast to your earlier statement referring to Paul De Grauwe. I read an article by Paul De Grauwe, published only two weeks ago: 'Currently high wage costs'. Which Paul De Grauwe are you referring to? I'm gonna ask that question again. And what measure do you really want: high wage costs according to Paul De Grauwe, or still low wage costs? You can choose.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u83	Mr President, I notice that the majority parties are really very interested in Mr De Grauwe. I don't think it's fair to talk about him all the time without him being heard. The difference is that we obviously know what is in his books and the fellow Members of the majority parties do not, because they are always asking for it. I therefore propose that, at the next meeting of the committee, Mr De Grauwe be invited so that he can come and explain it himself, so that everyone knows very well what it is about and that my fellow Members no longer have to ask us what is in Mr De Grauwe's books. That saves them the reading.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u84	Mr Calvo, continue with your statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u85	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u86	Mr Dewael, that is a nasty remark. I'm finding we're wandering a little bit. I have only mentioned Mr De Grauwe's name once, and that is enough for me. The point I was trying to make is this. We discussed this this morning, but you were not here this morning, Mrs De Block. You may have had an important meeting. As regards the labour market vision, the government agreement itself says on page 37 of the CD&V version that the labour market measure will push people towards the OCMW. What is emancipatory pushing people to welfare, Mr. Van Quickenborne? That's the first problem. The second problem, which I was just telling you about when I was interrupted, is this. If you opt for a radical form of flexibilisation, for which the majority indeed opts, people pay a price in terms of quality of life and health. If one in five fellow countrymen has a burnout, I don't take it laconically. Mr Van Quickenborne was very laconical about this, but they are people who have a problem; they are looking at these debates and wonder what solution you have in store for them. You suggest as a solution longer, more and harder to work for less pay. Unrighteous and unbalanced, as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u87	Mr Calvo, what is your option? Less work and more pay? Do you know one economic system in the whole world where that can be guaranteed? Do you know of one economic system in which such nonsense can be sold, in which people are led to believe that by working less, they could still earn more? Explain to me how you can guarantee that? Mr Van Quickenborne made a point. The truth is that in a society like ours, there are enormous opportunities for labour. The whole discussion about a full-fledged job, a job that can be accepted, since the rest is peanuts, I have also experienced during the discussions about interim work. Interim work in the government was not allowed. I remember the negotiations in 2007 and 2008. The majority of the Walloon parties were at that time largely opposed to this interim work, but it was applied in the Walloon Region. However, Interim Labour was not allowed to join the government. For example, there are a lot of opportunities for achieving work performance, while our structures make that impossible. Often there are jobs written on the body of people who do want to do something, but that is and cannot be done, because it does not fit in with the existing structures and collective agreements. As a society, we try to organize an economy that destroys labour. Labour, as you have just said, is emancipatory and liberating. I used the word "empowerment" this morning. I prefer people who feel useful because they can get to work effectively, then people I repeat that we are putting on an infusion, a baxter of a benefit to ease our own social conscience.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u88	Mr Dewael, that is rhetorically perfect, but you know very well that this does not resemble our programme in any way. Should we not consider with this Parliament the fact that one in five Belgians today are facing a burn-out? Do we have to step over it so lightly? Can no longer be asked about the quality of work? Can we no longer ask a question about the well-being of our workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u89	I am concerned about a society and a political system that ultimately spends more money not to let people work than to get them back to work. That has been the case at times. We have come up with a whole series of systems to either eject people from the labour market in the past or to provide facilities for not having to work. Finding work that is written on the body and tailor-made does not always correspond to the rules of collective agreements. I know that, too. As a result, many employers and self-employed people are not inclined to give one or the other a job. I think that's a shame, and I think we should break that trend. That's what this government stands for.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u90	I would like to respond to what Mr Dewael says. It is the classic trick in a debate to make a caricature of what others have said first and then shoot sharp. I want to confront you with a number of realities in our labour market. Our labour market is the champion of interim work. There are few or no European countries that have such extensive interim work as our country. We are also particularly attractive as an investment area because of the great flexibility of our labour market. However, the essential difference is that to date this is being accepted in social consultation, with collective bargaining agreements, in consultation with syndicated delegations. When I read the coalition chord, people ignore it. You make a caricature of the worker in receipt of benefits. I refer once again to what Mr Calvo brings to your attention. In distribution, the major stores where women usually work in split shifts, a lot of these women survive today because there is such a thing as an income guarantee, because they still receive benefits on top of their part-time pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u91	Reduce the income of people who work by 23 %, that's what you do.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u92	On Belga, I read that a secretary of the ACV has calculated exactly what the measure in the government agreement will mean for the income of those women. In other words, they will lose 23 percent of their income. If you know what group of people it is about, these are those people whose CSB researchers may have registered that they are at risk of supplementing the poverty group. And that is what we differ on. Otherwise, I agree with you. We should not be too rigorous, but let us negotiate and make agreements on the basis of collective agreements and not abolish IGU and drive people, especially those vulnerable groups of women, into poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u93	Mr President, this debate is very interesting. I would rather take them seriously, with the necessary rationality and wisdom, in this House instead of playing games with regard to Professor De Grauwe and others. I think this is an essential discussion because I find that in our society there is a polarisation, a dualisation: people with a lot of work, no time and often a lot of money and other people without a job and without money. Having a job is a very important tool for integrating people into our society. I want to fight very hard for the right to work for everyone. This means that we will have to have a number of discussions about the conditions for us in our society to ensure that everyone can work, but also have a job that is happy. I have the impression that I disagree with Mr Dewael in his remarks. He says work and make a lot of money. For me, the basic theorem is: working and above all being happy. One has to earn something, of course, but one has to be especially happy about it. That's where we part ways, I think. I'm not a woman of 135 lines and 37 good reasons why I can't. However, I have the impression that some people here want to go back to a system of upstairs downstairs. I want to avoid that at all times. In addition to Mr Bonte, I have a lot of experience in activating people. There is the story that there would be large groups of profiteers. In fact, this is what officials of the RVA are accused of not doing their job. I can assure you that they are doing their job very well. I've been up close. There may be regional actors who do not do their job, but that is another story. At least 80% of people want to work very hard and want to have a job. They think that's important, not just for the pennies. Fifteen percent of people are just having a hard time for all kinds of reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u94	Mr Dewael, you raised the question of which country promised to earn more with less work. That country is called Belgium and it happened in the 1960s and 1970s. In those years we have started to work less and we have received more wages, for the good reason that productivity has increased very much in our country. So you shouldn't go looking in the Caribbean, it happened to us. What is happening here today is that in the 1980s 58 % of our Belgian gross domestic product returned to wages and that today it is only 51%. Thus, wages are now subject to less and less gross domestic product. Mr Dewael, the answer to your question is quite clear: the increase in productivity in Belgium is enough to pay a certain reduction in working hours or pensions. This is the subject of the debate in Belgium in 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u95	Mr President, Mr Calvo, I apologise, because you have of course been standing there for some time, but I suspect you would like to be there. This is certainly a rather fundamental debate. Firstly, there is the social dialogue. Mrs De Coninck, I welcome your intervention, because if we had allowed social dialogue to take place, you would not have achieved any results in terms of the single statute. At some point, therefore, politics must be able to transcend that. In a parliamentary democracy, I cannot imagine it any other way: we define the lines and then we consult with the partners. I have great respect for that, but it cannot be possible for a partner, whether he is from the employer or the employee side, to block everything. If a partner knows that there are parties in the government who, at a meeting at the negotiating table, ensure that there is a njet within the government, thereby freezing the measure, there is no real social dialogue; then the government is the hostage of the social partners. That is a very important element.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u96	That's a very good one!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u97	We should have a social dialogue with the results and accountability of the partners, both the patterns and the workers. In the end it is not just about the Group of Ten, but there are 10 million Belgians who are not all represented in these organizations. We stand up for the public interest, for the 10 million citizens, for fellow citizens, and not just for those who are members of a trade union. I note, moreover, that a trade union is naturally more inclined to defend those who have work than those who do not yet have work. That's pretty fundamental. Now it is said that if consultation with the partners leads to a blockage in the social dialogue, then we cannot go any further. There is still the primacy of politics. If the partners do not get out, then politics decides, that is the alpha and omega of democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u98	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u99	Yes, Mrs. Lalieux, it's not your school. But we are in a parliamentary democracy. After negotiations with the social partners, it is Parliament that decides It is in this way that things happen in a democracy. Perhaps it is a little difficult for you to adapt to it, but if you make a little effort, you will succeed! Mrs De Coninck, I am in favour of flexibility in labour. Let us stop imagining the Scandinavian countries and Germany as countries of social barbarism. Now let's stop with the caricatures! In all possible countries, a perfect synthesis has been made between, on the one hand, strengthening the economy and, on the other hand, strengthening social security. They are Socialists and Social Democrats who have done so, for example in Germany. Gerhard Schröder was one of the people who led the way ten or twelve years ago to modernise the economy. I therefore call for us to move away from the carcan and rigidity in order to create work, which are potentially the victims of both workers and employers. I know a lot of employers who would, but they shouldn't. I know workers who would like to accept this, but it should not be in the current system. People take pity about that and call it inferior jobs. One then comes up with the story of the German mini-jobs. In the coming years, however, we must ensure greater flexibility and allow meaningful economic work to emerge from negotiations between employer and employee. What would you prefer as a terminal? Would you rather keep the people in unemployment than give them the chance to work? Then say so, but give me a clear answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to say that the debate has no substance. However, we may have to put a bit of a limit on the interruptions, otherwise the debate will take a very long time, given what awaits us. However, I am the defender of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u101	Mr President, I would like to respond briefly to what Mr Dewael said. Mr Dewael, first of all, when you talk in general terms about the relationship between politics and social dialogue, I can still follow a la limite. If social dialogue is to be blocked, then politics must take its responsibilities. However, what I read in the coalition agreement is more or less the patronal agenda of greater flexibility, more overtime, night work and linear reduction of charges, without any agreement between the social partners. Of course, that's the world upside down. Secondly, you refer to Germany. Look at the impact of the Hartz reforms that have been carried out over the past few years. We are currently looking for solutions to rising poverty, especially among workers. After all, where one has deregulated labour in the way in Germany, one ends up with people who have to have two or three jobs in order to achieve only one standard of living. The problem of working poor is therefore not exclusive to an American problem. It is also increasingly a problem in the heart of our European Union, namely in Germany, which should not become a leading example for this government, although I fear it is too late.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u102	Mr Dewael, in terms of style, you have made an excellent speech, but you have flown out of the bend a number of times. I have three comments to make. I know you're upset that you're on the list of speakers so late, but you might be a little more in the lead in the next election.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u103	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u104	That is democracy, Mr Dewael, and you must take care of it. Our group will not tolerate you suggesting that we want to keep people in poverty. I will not accept it if you say that our group is primarily concerned with benefits. On the contrary, we advocate real work, quality work, so that people can develop. I come to my three specific points. Firstly, you have described a number of situations in which people are confronted with nonsense rules that prevent them from working. You told those anecdotes. I also meet people who say they want to work, but they cannot work full-time and want to work part-time. Now, and that is my first specific remark: this government is deleting 23% of their income. However, these people want to be active, but they want to combine work and family life and thus work part-time. And these are the measures taken by this government in the field of part-time work. Secondly, the reason why you are not credible when you say that you want to get the bottom of the labour market moving, Mr Dewael, is that, if you really want to do so, you should re-launch a targeted reduction in labour costs, more pronounced and targeted, for the lowest incomes and middle incomes. Thirdly, with regard to social dialogue too, you and the government have a credibility problem. What is blocked today and over the next two years in the area of social dialogue? The wages and the pay freeze! You cut the wings of employees, you deprive social organizations of their bargaining power and you say you want to valorize work. People who work in sweat for our country want to appreciate you. Then why, for God's sake, put a 100% wage freeze on employees, even in sectors where there is room for extra wages?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u105	Firstly, as far as the wage standard is concerned, we will continue for the next two years, as happened in 2013 and 2014. We'll do exactly the same. You don't have to convince me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u106	No, because we were not incredibly enthusiastic about the previous government, Mr Beke.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u107	That's what I understand. I was a little more enthusiastic about that, but well, that's the difference between you and me. Secondly, with regard to social dialogue, yesterday the Prime Minister stressed the importance of social dialogue in his declaration of government. He has raised three points, which I would like to remind you of, as far as everyone is concerned, also with the majority of my fellow Members. I quote: "Social dialogue must ensure the stability and legitimacy of reforms. The quality of social dialogue deserves constant attention. The social partners and the government have a shared responsibility to maintain this dialogue and thus the capacity to develop prosperity." I have heard today, like you, that there is a desire to take action on 15 December. The trade unions can take action, but it will be much more fruitful to adopt in the long term the hand the Prime Minister gave yesterday, sit around the table and see how the necessary structural reforms can be properly implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u108	Mr Beke, the table above the action does not have to convince me of that. In fact, I believe that it is the task of trade unions to deal with this in a responsible way and to engage in the reforms in the present circumstances. I believe that this is also acceptable, but you have to choose now. You cannot say, on the one hand, that you appreciate the social dialogue and, on the other hand, choose the wage freeze. You know better than anyone that wages are a very important element of social dialogue. If you do not know that, then Mr Verherstraeten certainly knows it, as the mandatary of movement.net. Wages are essential in social dialogue. It's either one or the other. In terms of style, too, it is either one or the other: either Mr Dewael's battering is the primacy of politics and the Citizen Manifesto, or Mr Peeter's outstretched hand. It's one of two. The government cannot talk to people in their faces one day and ask them to sit down at the table the other day. You will have to make a choice and you will have to be clear in your reply tomorrow. What will be the government's relationship to social dialogue? Should Mr Dewael shine a little bit in that respect? Is it going to be Mr Peeter's hand or the confrontation that you have already put in place with this coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u109	Mr President, I must disappoint Mr Calvo. It's both. Mr Calvo, there is no contradiction between, on the one hand, organising a good consultation and asking the social partners to take their responsibility and, on the other hand, taking a decision if that does not work. By the way, I believe that this should work; I still believe in the consultation model. If after so much participation there is no verdict, then someone has to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u110	What participation has there been so far?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u111	Participation consists in the development by the public authorities of a framework which they then submit to the social partners. Let me give you some examples to make it clear that it is not just about wage formation. It is about measures that have been adopted by the government for some time and that have to do with flexibilisation. I am talking about the cancellation of working time, I am talking about the school bell contracts. These are matters that have been submitted to the social partners and that have been vetoed. They said they didn't go through with it. Then that's politically blocked. That is not normal in parliamentary democracy. That's the point. You shouldn't try to play us against each other...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u112	You do that yourself. I don't even have to do that. You'll do it yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u113	I should like to reply to the previous speaker immediately. Social dialogue is a very important instrument. The Prime Minister underlined this yesterday. If you look up whether the terms "social consultation" and "social partners' advice" are included in the government agreement, perhaps you have done so, then you will see that this is the case in very essential areas of the federal government agreement. The social partners are consulted on flexibility. Among other things, discussions are being held with the social partners on the IGA, which was the subject of the debate earlier. The question is, of course, whether the social partners will come to the table. I hope they accept the outstretched hand. If they ask for words and explanations, we will be happy to give them. A novelty is that we then go into tripartite talks. In the coalition agreement it was agreed that the Group of Ten, through the social dialogue between employers and employees, should solve as many questions as possible separately. That's obvious. Moreover, by analogy with what exists in Flanders, we will give the tripartite consultation some structure, in the sense that we will build a secretariat to give the tripartite consultation every opportunity. That's the outstretched hand. You, Mr Bonte and others will of course agree that a decision must be taken at some point. I hope that most of the decisions will be taken through the tripartite talks. If that is not the case, then there must be tranched. The first priority is absolutely the consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u114	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to see maximum clarity on this matter. You know how attached our party and our group are to good social dialogue. Is it true that the planned wage freeze and index jump depend on the social dialogue on this? One of the most essential elements of the interprofessional consultation is wage formation. Will you wait for your effective decision on an index jump and wage freeze until the social dialogue is completed, or not? That is a clear question. I have a second question. I refer to the text of the government agreement, which differs from what you say about encouraging participation in the labour market. It does not contain any reference to social dialogue. Not a word! I read: "The government will continue the increased degressivity of unemployment benefits. The definition of appropriate employment will be supplemented by Community service. As far as the income guarantee payment is concerned, I am literally reading the following: "The IGU payment for part-time workers is being recalculated as before 2008'. It will then be explained what that arrangement was. It does not refer to social dialogue. Hence my second question. Is this chapter also conditioned by the social dialogue? In other words, will the government refrain from doing so if the social dialogue does not produce any results? I believe that these are two clear questions, which could perhaps clarify the debate a little.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u115	Mr President, a while ago I had the pleasure of being part of the Group of Ten and other discussions in Flanders. So I know how important social dialogue is. I also know that when the government decides, and on the index jump it has already taken the decision, it is not easy to achieve social dialogue as quickly as possible, but we believe in it. There are many other areas where social dialogue is very important, both for the government and for the social partners. Social dialogue does not have an exhaustive agenda. At certain points in the coalition agreement there is an explicit reference to social dialogue, but if the social partners ask for certain matters to be discussed further around the table, I am glad to be prepared to do so. For the sake of clarity, I would like to point out that a number of decisions have been taken. To be honest, the index jump is a decision of this federal government. I hope, however, that on the other points, which are so important for the socio-economic aspect, the social partners will also come to the table for the tripartite talks, as has just been explained.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u116	Mr Bonte, I would like to point out that the thematic debates are still under way, but you will now have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u117	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I can only agree with Mr Calvo. He said that it meant that the government would first reduce the workforce's pennies, then deal with a number of central, sensitive issues for the trade unions, which were always put forward by employers, such as the IGU or the flexibility measures, and then inform the trade unions that it was reaching out to them. Mr Prime Minister, for the record, this is not how our social dialogue works. You know that, too, better than anyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u118	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, at least I hope that your government will get on with this quickly. After all, it is my sincere conviction that, when this country is to be reformed, polarisation can be missed as a pain in the tooth. Mr Prime Minister, it may be too much respect for Parliament, but we have not heard you today. I would also ask you to play your role as Prime Minister in this respect in the coming days, weeks and months, to connect people, employers and employees, and to have the reform train bulge together. Before the break just an hour ago, I was making a point that, at least according to our group, was particularly relevant to Mrs De Block. It was about the quality of jobs. After that, the whole debate on labour began. That debate is certainly not exhausted and is also a very interesting and very fundamental debate. I have already said that our group is concerned about the quality of work, about a number of measures and about their impact on health. Mrs De Block, in the same spirit, we are also concerned about the effects of the absence of any environmental ambition. Ladies and gentlemen, today one million compatriots already suffer from asthma. A fifth of them are children, small Belgians, small Flemings, small French speakers. Two hundred thousand children suffer from asthma. This has to do, among other things, with the fact that this country is not taking the necessary steps in terms of the environment. Mrs De Block, the combination of a number of labour market measures, particularly harder and more work for less wages, but without ambition in the environment and health, puts this government agreement at risk for public health. In fact, every minister in the government should also be Minister of Health. The coalition agreement opens up a lot of avenues, and I hope at least that you, as the Minister with special competence, will pay a great deal of attention to this. I know you have quite a few qualities. Dr. Maggie can do a lot, but you're not a miracle doctor. If social policy and environmental policy are distorted, health problems arise. I would therefore recommend that you do something about this. I come to a third point. I am trying to speed things up, because my colleague Nollet also has many important things to say. For us, this coalition agreement is one of dogmas and symbols. I can't list them all, but I'll highlight three specifically. These are measures which have been clearly demonstrated in the past that they do not work or offer no solutions. A first example is a dossier which our group attaches great importance to, in particular nuclear power stations. My fellow Members who have been following the debates on this in recent years have heard talk about the cracks, the leaking barrels and the sabotage. Nuclear power is more than ever the problem. If we are concerned today about security of supply in the coming winter, it is because the old nuclear power stations are dropping. However, you continue with that nuclear dogma and say that the future of our energy supply in the short and medium term lies in the persistence of nuclear dominance, in the focus on nuclear power plants. However, that focus makes us so vulnerable and so I do not understand this measure. The extended opening period of Objective 1 and Objective 2 to 2025 is a dogma. Nuclear power isn't working. That is a first example of a very pronounced dogma in this coalition agreement. A second example is the index jump. That dogma will cost people a lot of money. Minister Peeters did not reply to my question earlier about the exception. How many people does the exception to the index jump actually apply? What amount is provided for this exception? Are we talking about the EUR 127 million you spoke of? After all, we have already heard several possible exceptions, such as the lowest benefits. Where will the exceptions take place and what is the budget allocated? That is a very important question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u119	Mr Calvo, there is first and foremost the welfare envelope and also 127 million to correct the index jump for the lowest benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u120	That brings the benefit of clarity. It means that the so-called social index jump will be an index jump for everyone, except for those with the lowest benefits. This means that 95% of the population will see its purchasing power fall in the coming years, not for one year. And it's not just for this year, Mr. Michel. I read in the newspapers that index jump would only concern this year. This is not the case: it is for the rest of life! That costs 276 euros for the average employee. You take more than you give back afterwards. For a two-earner family with a monthly income of 5 000 euros, this amounts to 780 euros per year. This is not an index jump for a limited group of people, but for 95% of our countrymen. That's the so-called smart index jump.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u121	Mr Calvo, we are going through this index jump to make our companies competitive and create jobs. Secondly, it is a smart index jump that is being corrected. Hence the 127 million for the lowest benefits. Thirdly, there is also purchasing power for the active population. The Prime Minister referred to it. This has to do with the flat-rate professional costs that are being raised. Fourthly, for the purchasing power of the inactive, we have the wealth envelope. You have to look at that from that angle. One, an index jump to create jobs. Two, the purchasing power for the active is increased by the flat-rate professional costs. Three, the purchasing power for the inactive is addressed through the welfare envelope. Four, there will be a social correction for the lowest benefits of 127 million. These four elements should be viewed together when talking about the index jump.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u122	For 95% of people there will be an index jump. You may repeat it a hundred times or even a thousand times, but there is no social index jump. An index jump is always an antisocial measure. I invite you to read last week's HIVA study. The HIVA was the second study service of CD&V. In that study, two researchers say, and I quote: "There is a danger that a symbol battle will once again create symbols and dogmas, dear fellow Members, only victims and fails to take the policies that really strengthen attracting the economy without creating inequality." That's what the index jump does. That is what academics, people on the periphery of the movement, people close to you, Mr Beke, write, and you ignore that. Dogma number two: an index jump for 95% of people. Thirdly, a subject that has often been reviewed has been discussed and I shall move on quickly. The absence of any fiscal reform is a matter for the Council. That is the greatest disappointment for our group. If we want to reform this country, Prime Minister Peeters, then we need to reform taxes. I mentioned the figure this morning, when Mr Beke was still present. Today, the burden on labour is EUR 102 billion and the burden on capital is EUR 11 billion. This means that today's labour costs amount to 26.4% of GDP. With your measures, that percentage will decrease by 0.2 %. Capital income will increase by 0.1 % of GDP. That's not tax reform. That is not reform; that is more of the same. If we look at the other measures, that is even less social. However, there is prosperity in our country. There is room for fiscal reform. The 10% of the most wealthy today have 877 billion euros. There's nothing radical about asking for a capital gain contribution. The only thing radical today is the burden on labour. That makes you unbelievable in your plea for real jobs and job creation, Mr Dewael. I would like to dwell briefly on two sides of the majority. For the N-VA it is the dreamed coalition, the Antwerp model, especially if there is something in the atoma writings about Article 195, which was suggested at the N-VA congress. For Mr Dewael, the socio-economical coalition is obviously also the dream coalition, but liberalism is hopefully more than just the pennies and the market. When I read a number of chapters of the coalition agreement, I really wonder if bloody liberals feel at home in the coalition. It's a question. Do the liberals feel at home in the coalition? Look, for example, at the chapter on Asylum and Migration. In Sweden, a Bosnian refugee made it Minister last week. We have a Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, who speaks in terms of removing people. You should think about that. People don't say that about people. Not everyone can stay here, but everyone deserves protection, a decent reception and at least a decent, humane language of the politically responsible in this matter. Mr Dewael, this is the first question I am asking. As a liberal, do you not have a problem with the rancid side of the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u123	Mr Calvo, on asylum and migration policy, the previous Secretary of State responsible for this is the absolute benchmark for me. That's not gonna change. Human, correct and just. And that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u124	I hope that will be the line, Mr Dewael. However, we also read the newspapers last week. A second reason for your concern as a liberal is the sloppy handling of individual freedoms in a number of dossiers. My fellow Members will come back to that later. If liberalism is more than just the market and pennies, look at the chapters on Justice, Home Affairs and Asylum and Migration. There's quite a bit of deprivation of liberty in there. This is perhaps why Mr Tommelein had to become Secretary of State for Privacy: to stop the entire government from doing so. I'm really worried about the eagerness in this matter. I also have sincere questions for another party. Mr Verherstraeten, you can already feel me coming. I have made the list: an index jump of 95% of the people, wage moderation of 100% of the people, the measures relating to waiting pay, part-time work, time credit, the more expensive trains, registry fees, a less accessible justice system and so on. I ask Mr Dewael whether he feels well in the coalition. To you, Mr Verherstraeten, is my question: what the hell are you doing in that coalition? The fiscal reform has not been implemented. As far as social policy and the labour market are concerned, you have achieved nothing. Mr Peeters said in the campaign that he would be the social conscience of Flanders, because the others would hurt people. Now you're hurting people together. What are the Christian Democrats doing in the coalition? I'm asking the question and apparently a lot of other people, too. I hope Minister Jamar will have the figures soon. As soon as the budget is available, my group will take up the challenge and take up the gauntlet to draw up a counter-budget. This counter-budget will focus on fiscal reform, it will propose a more balanced pension and career reform, it will go for a more targeted reduction of burdens and so on. I will conclude, Mr President. Our country needs ambition. Our country has incredibly many possibilities, much more than what the coalition agreement shows. I quote Rutger Bregman, author for The Correspondent, because I think it stands up for our country: "We don't have to be overly optimistic. We do not need to be overly pessimistic. We must be possilist." We have to be possilist. There are other ways, dear people, we can do better in this country. This coalition agreement makes Belgium a country with more inequality, with more environmental pollution, while reform can also be social and green. We love this country. We do politics for people and for that reason we will not give you the confidence with much conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u125	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a new government and, of course, a new policy and also a new opposition. Allow me to begin with the latter. This morning I was able to listen admirably to the intervention of Mr Onkelinx, who has effortlessly made me not surprised by the move from Deputy Prime Minister to the leader of the opposition. And yes, we all get different qualities in politics: intellectual flexibility in politics is an advantage. This afternoon we got two or three positive points in the coalition agreement, but after that it was also done quite quickly. I didn't even hear anything positive this morning. If you exaggerate, you lose credibility. If we burn down everything that this government is proposing, it is not credible. If it is said that this government is the shortest way to a social graveyard, then it is not credible. If one reads the coalition agreement and states that only gifts are given to entrepreneurs, then one is not credible. If it is said that this is the right-wing government after the Second World War, then it is not credible. This also applies in this debate, particularly in French, which is the opposite of the previous legislature, when it is said that this is a government against the French. Ladies and gentlemen, there has never been a government, and I have been allowed to sit in this House for a long time and to comment so much on a government before it has been established. And yes, this is an unpublished coalition. During the last parliamentary term, when discussing the sixth state reform, it has been pointed out, among other things, that our current Constitution is a binding constitution. It is a block constitution that actually requires that there are majorities in every language community in order to get this country moving. I do not want to polemicize, but despite the so-called bolt constitution, we are starting here today with a majority of three Dutch-speaking parties and one French-speaking party. When I started speaking in the evening of the last legislature, I was told the same thing over and over again, namely that we ruled without a Flemish majority. Well, all those who blamed me then, now shut up. And all those who didn't talk about it at the time say that there is no French-speaking majority. This is not the first time that we have had a government without a French-speaking majority. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not play hide-and-seek. It is not about the lack of a majority in a particular language group. Those who use this argument, like those who used it during the previous legislature, those who use it today do so because they are opposed to this government's project that wants economic growth with social progress. That's what this is about. Mr Prime Minister, I refer to your statement yesterday, with which I fully agree, in which you said that your predecessor did so also during the previous legislature, namely that this government will be there for all Flemings, for all French speakers and for all German speakers. Every minister and every secretary of state is there for all Belgians. This government is, as it should be, joint and should get a majority federally in this Parliament, no more but no less. Ladies and gentlemen, this majority is indeed unpublished, but that is also the opposition. Despite being allowed to sit in this House for a long time, I have never seen a resigning Prime Minister for which I have a great deal of respect profiled itself as an opposition leader before the new government was formed. I've never seen that before. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the critics on one point. This coalition makes choices, difficult choices, and we will all indeed feel them. The question was asked just now. Why does this coalition actually make these choices? My fellow Members, it is because this government is not conservative. It's because this government doesn't just want to keep what we have cramped. It's especially not because we want to put the problems ahead of us. It's not because we want to shift the burden to the next generations. But it is mainly because we want these and the next generations to have it better, or at least as good. That approach may be challenging, but I also think it is progressive. He is challenging because we dare to question some things that have seemed self-evident for decades. This approach is forward-looking because we want to prepare the future and safeguard our social model, with strong social protection. That is why this government is progressive. I am not surprised that many people and also many civil society organisations and interest groups have responded. I am not surprised that this coalition agreement provokes reactions. That is good, because that means that everyone and those organisations are involved. It doesn't bother me. Interest groups should also defend the interests of their members, and there is nothing wrong with that. In addition to individual interests, in addition to legitimate group interests, there is a general interest, and it has just been said that it is also the general interest. At certain moments, ladies and gentlemen, one must dare to reach the trenches, to go beyond one's own and to enter into agreements through dialogue, which is so important. If the position is not me, but the other one must be spared, then one chooses to divide people. We Christian Democrats do not want to divide people, we want to bring people together. This government will do the same. It is therefore no coincidence that the importance of social dialogue is already underlined at the beginning of the coalition agreement. It is the ambition of this government and of this majority to make a future plan with economic growth possible with the social partners. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made clear choices before the elections. Over the next five years, we will not be negotiating a new state reform at Community level. We place our priorities on the socio-economic problems, on jobs, on the affordability of pensions and on the maintenance of our social protection. These are choices for both economic growth and social progress. We are convinced that there is no social paradise built on an economic graveyard. We are also convinced that there is no economic paradise built on a social graveyard. Those were our chalk lines for the elections and during the negotiations. It will also remain our chalk lines in the next five years. Ladies and gentlemen, these choices are also reflected in the coalition agreement. This is indeed the first government in 20 years without a Community agenda. It's a government with socio-economic priorities. I think that everyone, both the majority and the opposition, agreed on it even during the campaign, and is that we have lost a lot of competitiveness lately. In an open economy like ours, in a small country like ours, that's disastrous. It's trouble for us. A loss of competitiveness means a loss of jobs. Less jobs mean less income for social security. Less income for social security means more poverty. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we want to break this vicious circle. Friends, just as I do not understand that everything is being burned down by this government, I will never be told that I am burning down what the previous government has done. In a difficult budgetary context, the previous government has made efforts to reduce the wage handicap. We'll continue that line. We are making important additional efforts to accelerate the removal of this handicap by 2018. Yeah, we do that with an index jump. It has already been discussed in detail and I am not going to repeat it. Ladies and gentlemen, the previous government has also been working on the index. We do an index jump once in this legislature, the previous government did several index jumps. Let us not deny that either, that is the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u126	Mr Verherstraeten, you know that I respect you. You have just said that you will not question the measures taken by the former government. You said that you assumed – I congratulate you because others here do not – your participation in the former government. But be fair and do not truncate the facts: there was no index jump during the previous government. We have opposed it and will always oppose it. At least respect this state of affairs. Ms Temmerman explained earlier how the index was improved for the benefit of Belgian citizens, taking into account the reality of consumption. No, there was no index jump during the previous government. Yeah, there's one today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u127	Mr Verherstraeten, I will not repeat what I said this morning about the index. You are well aware that there have been no index jumps under the previous government. I think it's a little small for you to say that again, but if you want more explanation about that, I'm sure I'll be available to give it to you in the next few days. What bothers me most is that you say you need to take care of the public interest and more jobs. I can fully understand that, but tell me who will pay for it under this government, Mr Verherstraeten. Why don't you explain that to me? We say, once again, that we can raise EUR 4 billion by means of a tax on capital. I am not just saying that, Mr Verherstraeten. I'm reading some quotes. I find it strange that CD&V ignores that. Mr Marc Bafort of Deloitte recently said in De Standaard: 'We are attractive to the rich, let us just admit that.' I wonder what CD&V has to say about that. Bernard Jolly of Compagnie Het Zoute, also no leftist comrade, said this year in De Standaard: "Why are all the rich French coming to Brussels?" Belgium is not the fiscal hell, is it? I'm reading a third quote. I do not know if you were there, but many of your fellow Members were at the hearings on possible fiscal reforms. Tijdens die hoorzittingen zei Pascal Saint-Amans: Now you have to explain to me, Mr Verherstraeten, why your party in this government has so opposed a tax on capital, which according to our own National Bank could have raised EUR 4 billion, so your index jump of 2.6 billion would not be necessary. Explain that to me!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u128	Mr Verherstraeten, you are right. The previous government has indeed shattered the index. However, since when is such a determination for CD&V an excuse to go one step further and advocate an index jump? Since when is CD&V proud that the index is being eroded, not only by the previous government but now by the new government? A further step is now being taken, with an index jump that will affect 95% of people, benefits and wages. How come your party has evolved in that sense? Where is the common sense of CD&V not to advocate capital tax here, so that there is financial space to reduce the burden on wages and labour? Where is the common sense of CD&V to be proud to knock on the chest here because there will be an index jump? Where is the common sense of CD&V to advocate a government agreement here today that does not mention global warming? Where did the stewardship of CD&V go? Where did CD&V's responsibility go? You are turning away more and more from ordinary people, from people who work and from families, which is not our politics and not our vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u129	Mr President, I have heard Mrs Temmerman speak in a very indignant manner, with quotes from Deloitte and many others, who have denounced things. I have only one simple question on the subject. Mrs Temmerman, if your indignation had been as great as it was today over the last twenty-six years you have spent in the government, then you could have done something about it. After twenty-six years of socialists in the government, it is easy to point out what should have happened in the last twenty-six years. Mr Vanvelthoven, I would like to say two words about the index jump. I said earlier that we are not defending the index jump with pride. However, we assume him. Mrs Temmerman, the last index adjustment was made in 2012. It was then predicted that an index adjustment would be made by the end of 2013. The measures taken by the government at the time did not provide for an index adjustment, because it had similar effects on the mechanism. I have already mentioned it this morning. The big difference with this government, Mr De Vriendt, is that of the index jump, which does indeed generate EUR 2.6 billion for the competitiveness of enterprises, so that the people who have a job today and will not have a job tomorrow will be able to get a job and a future perspective, will return EUR 1 billion to the people who work and EUR 1.6 billion to the people with benefits or pensions. That is what is in this coalition agreement and we are proud of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u130	Mr Beke, if you say with such emphasis that you are proud of that, then I must say that you are not proud of the other, and that is right. Mr Beke, I said the following this morning, but perhaps you were not here at the time. Or is it? Then you didn't listen carefully. No, you were absent, because I brought something for you, but I gave it to Minister Peeters; I hope he has already given you that gift. Mr. Secretary, you wouldn't keep that to yourself, would you? It was a gift for your party chairman. Mr Beke, you are always trying to explain that you are only defending the index jump a little bit, not really, because that is a bit difficult, but you are defending it. However, I have not yet received the answer to the question as to why taxes on large assets are not levied. I would also like to ask CD&V, as I asked this morning, but I did not get an answer to it, how can it defend that it raises prices in the Flemish government, such as for childcare, schools, water and electricity, and then reduce wages in the federal government via an index jump. You have to explain that to me, because that is a reverse index mechanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I find this rather hallucinating. I would like to remind you of many of the debates that have taken place in recent years. From the opposition, we have always rightly accused of undermining the index mechanism. Today, we are faced with a president of CD&V who admits that and literally says that the previous government has shattered the index. Mr Beke, you used that word literally. Our country has a very simple protection mechanism. If the prices of products from the supermarket are rising in people's shopping cart, then wages and benefits must also increase. Mr Beke, you are now admitting that you have condemned that purchasing power protection mechanism in the previous government. In addition, you admit that you are going a step further today, by making it even more difficult for 95% of wages and benefits to follow price increases. This means an even further erosion of purchasing power for 95% of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u132	Mr Beke, I think your reasoning is fantastic: it is okay that an index jump is imposed because there was an index jump last year. As a political decision for the Labour Party, I will immediately tell the friends of the ACV that there will be a second index jump in Belgium. I think this is intellectually interesting. For the holidays I had a debate with Mr Van Rompuy in the Seventh Day, in which he even explained to me in Latin that the index would not have been touched. I'm getting something else from CD&V. I think this is a really bad idea. Let us be clear. Not only according to the Labour Party, but also according to the National Bank, we have a problem in Belgium with lowering demand. That's one of the problems. What you are about to do is to give 95% of the workers and servants in this country even less purchasing power for the demand in our economy. So let us stop this spiral and find other solutions, Mr Beke.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u133	It's an interesting debate. However, many elements are repeated that we have already heard this morning. However, I would like to repeat the following. You say that we are attacking the truth when we say that we are doing an index jump and that the previous government did index jumps. I am simply referring to two examples. I would like to understand your argument this afternoon that the reduction in VAT on electricity has obviously affected the index, but also represented a reduction in the price for the population. However, that argument did not apply when we changed the basket and took account of the solders. Of course there are soldiers in January and in summer, but they were there before we took that measure. If, for example, we have included mobile telephony in the index, during the past legislature, it has to be admitted that half of Belgium, if not all of Belgium, used mobile telephony well before that and that this aspect had a real impact on people's wallets. In other words, they adapted to a reality, but that reality was already embedded in the rules. By adjusting it, the process has been influenced, with the results as Mr Beke has just outlined.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u134	Whether that index jump is decided by an orange, blue or red minister, an index jump remains an index jump for people. That is not the most important debate. However, what I find strange, Mr Verherstraeten, is that you account for the turn of CD&V over the index jump, not by saying that you have brought in other things, but by saying that you have made leaps with the previous government. That's not exactly the best and most solid defense. Mr De Vriendt criticized the manipulation of the index very often during the previous parliamentary term, but that does not justify any real index jump. Mr Beke finds it annoying that his party is now being targeted more than the other parties in this debate. That also makes sense, but it's about much more than the index jump. We tried to explain that earlier, but you did not agree to it. When you add up all these measures and the Flemish measures, it is normal that a lot of people in Flanders wonder what happened to CD&V, where the middle party went, where the new and the old balance went. It is unbalanced and so these are logical questions. Moreover, I do not understand at all the defence that Mr Verherstraeten is building.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u135	Mr Calvo, you are an excellent debater, but I have the impression that you are not an excellent listener and that you have not listened to Mr Beke or Deputy Prime Minister Peeters today. We'll account for the index jump. We remind those who criticize it that they did the same under a different form. We justify the index jump by saying that we use it to create jobs, not to close the budget deficit. And what's more social than giving people a job? We motivate him by the fact that we are socially correcting, as Mr Beke said just now, in the sense that the money that the people lose because of it will be returned to them and to the route.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u136	Mr Verherstraeten, can you explain how you give this back to the retired person who is getting less pension due to the index jump and cannot incur professional costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u137	Mr Temmerman, thanks to the reduction in personal taxes, we are giving about 1 billion through the reduction in professional costs, which makes us, and that is my absolute conviction...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u138	Mr Verherstraeten, I am talking about the retired person who is unable to pay professional costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u139	Just be patient, I'll get to that. ... making the difference between work and non-work greater, and thus we hope that even more people will come to a job, which will win social security and all of us. We justify that also through the welfare envelope and through this interpretation, not more than 60% as we have done in the last parliamentary term for the sake of the budgetary context, but now at 100%. Have that account made by 2019 and then the result is 1.5 billion. One billion plus 1.5 billion is 2.5 billion. It is our absolute conviction that this will generate additional jobs, thanks to the strengthening of competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u140	Mr Verherstraeten, I promise you that I will stop after this, because you will not answer my questions. You did not answer the question of why there is no capital tax. Nor do you answer the question of how to explain it to pensioners. I'm just talking about modal people with a modal pension, who can't bring in professional costs. As far as the welfare envelope is concerned, you should also explain to me what it means to tax. In this way we get to 100 %. You will have to explain that to me again, but perhaps it will be possible to do so later in the debates. Will you tax that extra? What does that mean? Your government agreement is full of all kinds of things that refer to the future, with great words, but without really saying what it is about. We could, of course, check that if we had the tables, but unfortunately that is not the case. It is a pity, therefore, for pensioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u141	Again, the debate on the index jump is important. This is a very serious measure, and I have no problem with the opposition always emphasising it. The index gap should be fully framed in closing the pay gap and making our companies competitive. This is also important for employment and jobs. It is very important that we have made this choice and that we close the pay gap by the end of this legislature, referring to the 1996 law. As far as the welfare envelope is concerned, fiscalisation does not, of course, mean that people would not get their money at the same time as they do now. That does not mean that one euro less would be received. I also refer to the law on the Generation Pact, in which the wealth envelope originates and which lays it down every two years on the advice of the social partners. Your concern that this would constitute an additional burden is unjustified. On the contrary, by taxing this, we hope to be able to give people their money faster and more efficiently and to allocate at least the same amount at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u142	Where are the numbers? It's now 5:00. We still haven't had the opportunity to translate them? What's the problem here? Mr. Jamar and the Prime Minister are here. At 10:00, they agreed. Is there a problem with the photocopier in Parliament? [[...]] Are you sure?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u143	Mr Nollet, we have already asked the question a few times and we have also listened to the answer. I assume that everything possible will be done to bring the figures to Parliament as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u144	Mr Verherstraeten, Mr Beke, I am a little surprised to hear how you are trying to defend the index jump. You proudly tell us that the index jump will yield jobs. Can you tell me how you support that? Mr Beke, I have seen people close to me who have turned in 12% of their wages. What's the result? Ten thousand people are on the street. Surrender was therefore not a guarantee of maintaining the job. So tell me how you're gonna harden the index jump jobs?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u145	Mr Kitir, we are a small country with an open economy. The level of our wages is crucial to the viability of our companies. We have a lot of exports. If there are companies that are highly competitive with companies in other countries, then competitiveness is really crucial. If we do not catch up as quickly as possible, we will lose jobs. I don't understand. You heard Mr Van Rompuy this morning, who gave a little lesson in political history. In the 1980s, there was also a government that has done three index jumps. We only do it once. The economic reality of that time has shown that it has given our companies oxygen again and used it to create new jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u146	Mr Verherstraeten, there are two debates next to each other. After all, it is too important. The figures are being asked again.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u147	Madam President, I do not want to exaggerate, but when I see that the Minister for the Budget is leaving saying, 'I don't care about Parliament', I think that is enough!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u148	We have heard you, and I propose that Mr Verherstraeten continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u149	No, there are limits!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u150	Go on, sir.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u151	This morning, we received a commitment from the government. At that time, our group did not ask for the debate to be stopped. After yesterday, that's a positive signal. Now, however, we are exaggerating. The Minister for the Budget is here astutely suggesting that the question of figures is a matter for him. Either you bring back the Minister for the Budget within five minutes, or our group asks for a further suspension. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u152	Mr President, I have a doubt as I hear you, colleagues in the government, promising us the tables from this morning and seeing the Budget Minister come in and out. Maybe you could play transparency with us. I have the feeling that you do not yet agree on the outline of your budget and that you are in the process of amending the line-by-line tables. It would be easier to tell us. That would prevent us from asking you for these famous paintings every half hour. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u153	Mr President, I have made a very constructive proposal. There was another debate on the figures, and Mr Jamar left astutely. I have proposed to your temporary replacement that Mr Jamar should be back here within five minutes, rather than ostentatiously resigning and renouncing Parliament in his mandate; otherwise, as an opposition group, which we have just explicitly not done, we will ask for the suspension again. You have a choice. Get Mr. Jamar back. A little respect in this respect is the absolute minimum.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u154	Mr President, I think that here, clearly, the opposition is pinning a micro-event.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u155	Mr. Jamar wanted to speak on several occasions. We never gave it to him. So he just left for a few moments. He'll be back. Mr Jamar simply wanted to say that he was not given the floor. He was briefly absent. I propose that Mr Verherstraeten take up the thread of his speech. We're pinning a non-event. Mr President, I ask you to move on.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u156	Mr President, I have the floor at the moment. Mr. Clarinval, we're going back in time today. This morning, your own minister says that there's no problem, that he has the numbers and that we'll get them all within two hours. Because he couldn't answer a question, he says it's no problem and we'll get the numbers later. And now you're saying it's a mini-event? Moreover, about the most important thing a government can do, especially for you as an MR, as a liberal party, is to come up with the budget. If you say it's a mini-event, I think it's very misplaced. Again, it is your own minister who proposed it, not the opposition. Your own minister said earlier that the tables would be here within two hours. In the meantime, it's about seven hours later. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u157	You can do that, but you know that Rule 50 requires you to do so in writing. Mr Verherstraeten, please continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u158	Colleagues, I will return to my discourse. This government, ladies and gentlemen, is doing what is necessary. Yes, we are in favour of the competitiveness of companies. Yeah, we're in favour of cutting charges. Yes, we agreed to an index jump. But we also want to protect the weakest, and so we increase the lowest pensions, and so we increase the lowest benefits, and so we strengthen the purchasing power of the workers. Our aim, ladies and gentlemen, is to prevent jobs from going abroad. And what's more social than giving people a job, what's more social than keeping people's jobs?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u159	Thank you, Mr Verherstraeten, for trying to answer the question about the index jump you are going to make. You are committed to maintaining and creating jobs. Mr Verherstraeten, members of CD&V, what is more antisocial than taking people's purchasing power without guaranteeing them that you can give them a job?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u160	Answer me!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u161	I already replied to that earlier. Others have already replied. You may repeat that question ten, twenty or thirty times, that is your right, and I will always respect it, but there is a cry here today from the roofs that this is an antisocial government, because it is taking structural measures in social security, among other things. Colleagues, may I refresh your memory? What government has strengthened the degressivity of unemployment benefits? What government has raised the age of early retirement? What government has changed the system of bridge pensions? What government has changed the composition of the index basket? What government has also blocked wages? These are measures that we have taken together, ladies and gentlemen of the PS and sp.a. Were they antisocial?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u162	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u163	For you, yes, but we're thinking about the future. Social security, Mr Calvo, has been important to our grandparents. She's important to our parents. We are proud to have been able to build on it for decades, but we want social security to be and remain important for our generation and for our children and grandchildren. That is why we are taking these measures. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is taking measures not only in terms of competitiveness but also in terms of affordability of pensions. All the calculations show that if we didn't do anything else in pensions, they wouldn't be affordable anymore. Mr Vande Lanotte has been present this morning and has been repeatedly referred to the writing he wrote ten years ago with Mr Vandenbroucke. I will not repeat what has been said this morning, but I have recently taken up reading again. I would like to quote one sentence from it. Mr Vandenbroucke and Mr Vande Lanotte spoke about the difference in the length of the career between our country and other European countries. The average career in our country is much shorter than that in the neighbouring countries, making abstraction of France. A little further he says: "The difference between Belgium and the other countries is unsustainable. It is impossible to want the best pensions and health care in the world and at the same time the shortest careers. I totally agree with him. It is for this reason that we are taking the measures contained in the coalition agreement today. Reference was made here to the former Minister of Pensions. I quote: "I can guarantee everyone that there is no fundamental problem of paying pensions until 2015. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this government wants to ensure that everyone will receive a good pension after 2015, in 2020, in 2030 and later. That is our ambition! Colleagues, this too must be admitted by everyone in this Assembly: the previous government has given good impetus to this. I just quoted a few of them. Everyone, majority and opposition, knew that there were still steps to follow. That is also why the former Minister for Pensions and the then government has set up an expert committee to make proposals. That is why this government is making additional structural reforms. Early retirement is being increased further. The retirement age is being raised. The conditions for the runways are tightened. But also the time credit is improved for people who want to take care of their sick children or their sick parents. The various pension systems are also harmonised in order to eliminate inequalities. Let me make one thing clear: if you have worked for 45 years, you will no longer have to work to get a full pension. I refer to the party chairman of the sp.a: someone who starts working on 18 years does not have to work for 49 years. He can retire after 45 years, at 63 years old. In certain circumstances, for example in the heavy professions, or in the category of long careers, this can be done even earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand, of course, that these pension measures are sensitive. As a result, some people's expectations change and they have to adjust their expectations. That is why this government says it will work it out in consultation with the social partners. It will be implemented gradually, with additional transitional measures, especially for those close to retirement. Ladies and gentlemen, it would only be antisocial if we thought only in the short term if we thought only of the current pensioners. I repeat: this government is doing what must be done, we are obliged to take care of pensions, not only for those of us today, but also for those of us who, within five, ten or twenty years, are going to retire and have a good pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u164	Mr Verherstraeten, I would like to begin by proving the contrary to you. It is indeed a good measure to continue and equalise the time-credit when justified. I would even like to cast this point out of the coalition agreement. I am really concerned about the group of part-time workers with IGU, the weak group I was talking about earlier and about which the ACV and the LBC are talking today in a press release. One calculates the effect of applying the measure in the coalition agreement: a substantial loss of income of almost a quarter of the income, and this for a group that is actually unable to carry out a full-time job because it has to do very fragmented part-time work during peak hours in distribution. You have explained very precisely what the fate of the time loan is. Was the government's measure on the reform of part-time involuntary work made clear whether the periods which are now considered part-time involuntary and which are now equivalent to retirement will be treated in the same way tomorrow? In other words, should people in distribution not only fear losing a quarter of their income but also losing half their pension rights? I would very much like an answer to the question of whether the reform, as it is literally stated in the coalition agreement, also eliminates the half-time period or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u165	Mr Bonte, the technical details of the whole pension reform are obviously not yet on paper. The drafts and drafts in this area are still to be issued. It is precisely in order to be able to talk about certain things with the social partners that we specifically stated in the government agreement that there would be a tripartite meeting before the texts were finally written out, before the final and complete pension reform would be brought before Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u166	Can I simply ask the leader of the Christian Democrats what your group's position is on this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u167	Mr Bonte, our position on pensions, in all the dossiers, has always been that we do not want to sit still, which would ultimately lead to a worsening of pensions. We want longer work, because that is the only way to get full pensions. We agree to increase the retirement age in this respect. We are always prepared to discuss this further with the social partners, as did the previous Minister for Pensions. After we had a coalition agreement, he consulted with the social partners, and some changes were made to the left and right, and the texts were then brought before Parliament. Well, we're willing to do that, too. If there are social sensitivities that can be solved, we are prepared to do so. We go in consultation with the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u168	Mr Verherstraeten, now the people, those tens of thousands of workers, should really be worried. If you do not defend them in this majority, they will lose not only a quarter of their income but also half their pension rights. That's the naked reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u169	Mr Verherstraeten, you refer to the report of the Pension Reform Committee. I note that you probably read that report selectively. I'll read you a sentence from that. I would have liked to hear from you where I can find that part of the coalition agreement. The report of the Pension Reform Committee states: "We believe that financing on factors other than labour income and on the basis of assets should play a role in this. I would have liked to have been clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u170	Mrs Kitir, this suggestion is not a clear suggestion when I hear the quote. I got the impression that the expert committee didn't agree on that. I got the impression that some people thought that and others didn't at all. As far as pension reforms are concerned, Mrs Becq said this morning that the proposals of the Committee of Experts were not acceptable. The proposals of the expert committee are not binding. They're highly advisory, though. That is why we have taken on board various elements. The Committee of Experts also explicitly stated that it was up to the political authorities to decide. I'll come back to the power taxes later.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u171	Mr Verherstraeten, you must not abuse the truth. I'll repeat it again. The Committee of Experts made it very clear that this was a compromise text and that it was quite important. One cannot take out certain things and others cannot. It was about the whole, with giving and taking on both sides. You only take out the things that make sense to you; the things that do not make sense to you, let you fall. I have another question, Mr Beke. You said just now that you are ensuring that pensions will be paid in the future. According to the few information I have, you have to improve me, because we still do not have any figures, but I think Mr Beke or the Prime Minister said this morning, there is additional 7 billion for pensions. Now the Planning Office has calculated that we need EUR 9.6 billion in an unchanged policy. You provide EUR 7 billion. So a calculation gives us a negative result of - EUR 2.6 billion. You are now suggesting that the government will increase pensions and that they are insured. You're gonna have to explain that to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u172	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, we want to raise the lowest pensions and guarantee the other pensions. We will invest EUR 10.5 billion more in social security over the next few years and throughout the legislative period, in order, among other things, to pay pensions. This government will be there for five years. We will keep the situation on a monthly basis. If additional measures are needed, we will take them if necessary. People can sleep on both ears, as far as we are concerned, and despite your false concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u173	Mr President, Mr Verherstraeten, you have to excuse me, but we have no figures. So I can only rely on the figures we get. However, the same reasoning applies. You mention the figure of EUR 10.6 million extra.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u174	I was talking about EUR 10.6 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u175	You were talking about EUR 10.6 billion. Otherwise, the situation would be even worse. So you are talking about EUR 10.6 billion. However, the same Planning Agency has calculated that we need more than EUR 13 billion. So it's no extra at all. Again, there is a saving. The reasoning is therefore the same as for pensions. Please explain that to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u176	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, pension measures have been taken by the previous government. They have, of course, had an impact on pension expenditure. They have made sure that people stay longer on the job, which meant that fewer pension expenditures had to be paid. This is, of course, the intention of the government's measures. In the long term, this will lead to savings, i.e. less pension expenditure, because people work longer, pay more social security contributions and generate more income for social security. Mrs Temmerman, that is how we will finance this. Ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has already been said about fiscal reform. I refer in this respect to reports by the National Bank, the High Council of Finance, the OECD, the European Commission and the IMF, all pointing to the excessive burden on labour. That is why we want to change something about it. The suggestion was always a shift to other burdens. Well, it is the first time that the principle of tax shift has been incorporated into a government agreement. For some, that is far too much and far too little for others. In any case, we are taking steps that were not possible in the past. I learned from the current President of the European Union: Step by step we're going a long way. We are carrying out a tax shift, which no one can deny, of 1 billion for personal income tax, 1 billion for the reduction of company charges and 1 billion in 2015 for the lowest benefits, in order to give oxygen to the economy. It might also be good to talk about what is not in the coalition agreement. We have not yet discussed this, not even in the morning debate. For example, the duration of unemployment is not limited in time and the degressivity in unemployment is not tightened. Now let me stick to taxation. We had a permanent tax regularisation in 2005 and in the last legislature we turned it into a temporary regularisation. Well, that is no longer in the coalition agreement; that regularization is permanently buried. There will be no tax regularization under this government. Taxes must be paid by everyone and those who do not must bear the consequences. Over the last few months, a fascinating debate has been held between politicians, civil society, scientists and commentators on the European Union's and the Member States that are part of it. We just talked about that. Some people think we're trying to save ourselves and others think we're not going far enough. Several economic theories were referred to earlier, but differing views. I'm not a formed economist myself, I'm just a simple lawyer. However, common sense teaches me that debts incurred have to be repaid sooner or later. That refund should be made as soon as possible. The longer one waits, the greater the debt mountain. They also do this best in a rhythm that is bearable for everyone. A few months ago, the then government presented a stability programme to Europe. In doing so, she guaranteed a balance by 2016. We moved that up to 2018. To those who blame us for being too strict, I would like to say that we have met these economic theories precisely in order not to act brutally and certainly not to break or break the very beginning of economic growth. Any government would have done that, however it would have been composed. Colleagues, I'm closing. This government has the ambition to implement a socio-economic future plan and to strengthen the economy. However, this government also has a social agenda. It wants to strengthen the economy to get people working, to keep pensions affordable and to maintain health care. This requires structural reforms and efforts by all people. We do not reform to reform, we do not reform to break down sacred houses, we reform so that people will be just as good tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. We want to do so in consultation with the social partners and not against them. That's what the coalition agreement actually starts with. Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in 2011, the Flemish Christian Democrats negotiated a major state reform. In 2014, we negotiated to enable economic growth with social progress. That is what this government is trying to achieve: a new balance to ensure the future. Mr Prime Minister, that is why we give you and your team the confidence and wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, I have received a request for the application of Rule 50 of our Rules of Procedure. I read it to you: "On a written proposal from a member, the Chamber may request the presence of a member of the government. I have a text before me, signed by Mrs Temmerman, Mr Calvo, Mrs Lalieux and Mrs Fonck. I read it to you: "In order to be able to discuss the coalition agreement on a sound basis and taking into account the announcement by the Minister for the Budget to make figures available to Parliament, the Court requests the presence of the Minister for the Budget and the availability of the budget figures. Does anyone want to speak on that? I would remind you that if we start a debate on this, speaking time is limited to five minutes per group.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u178	Mr. Speaker, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, our Prime Minister made a statement, not here in Parliament but in the press. In Le Soir, the Prime Minister said: "It is remarkable to have such a precise multi-year budget until 2018!" The Prime Minister went on to say, "Citizens know what to expect." Today, Mr.President, Prime Minister, citizens still do not know what to expect. Where is this budget? Are we living in a state with this government that is such that we are no longer able to deliver to Parliament the fundamental elements, those that support your policy? Where are these numbers? Why are you hiding them? What do you not have to show here, now, in Parliament? Prime Minister, your Budget Minister, earlier at 10:30 this morning, announced the figures for 2:00 p.m. It's now 5:40 and we don't have those numbers. I asked the Speaker half an hour ago. Is this a photocopying problem in the House? Do we ever know... he said no. What's the problem? Is this a computer problem within government? Have you changed things so much that today you are no longer able to make them work properly? Is it logical in the 21st century, when a government tables a draft government agreement, that it is not able to base its proposals on a budget? No, that's not acceptable! You said it yourself: citizens need to know what to expect. Prime Minister, today you must table these figures and we must suspend the sitting until the figures are at our disposal!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u179	Mr President, Prime Minister, if we are not allowed to get these paintings, I see that some of them are already on Twitter. At the very least, therefore, I believe that the Prime Minister could make these available to us. Prime Minister, if you wish, I can send them to you. More seriously, you haven't provided any information yet. Contrary to what Mr Ducarme said yesterday, this is a real problem, which is nothing like a habit. You have come before the House without making available the general figures of the budget framework of your programme. I am not talking about the detailed figures, but only about the generals. Nothing, nothing! Neither for members of the opposition nor for members of your own majority. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, would you dare buy a cat in a bag and vote for confidence without the slightest number? Prime Minister, not to expose them or to make them available to the elected members of the people on the day of the government declaration in Parliament does not encourage me to believe that the government, as the Prime Minister says, is a government of courage and responsibility. On the contrary!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u180	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are still some reactions! No one is fooled by the game that is currently being played. I would like to recall that the debate is about a government statement. It is therefore a question of defining the guidelines, the decisions that we want for the next five years. Throughout the debate, on several occasions, I welcome this because it is the democratic debate, opposition parliamentarians have seized the opportunity to question ministers, who have provided answers. I therefore confirm that this government statement is not a classic one. Nor is it trivial, since, unlike other government statements, as I demonstrated yesterday in my statement when I had the opportunity to present it to Parliament, we are in a degree of precision on certain points that go beyond a usual framework. At the same time, I observe that for a quarter of a century, never in parallel with a government declaration, budgetary tables have not been delivered, having been reserved for budgetary debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u181	I'm not done! I would like to confirm what I said yesterday. At the time of the thematic debates, each member of the government will also have an opportunity to explain in detail the commitments made in this government statement. I have also indicated that, when all technical data are validated and finalized, they will be transmitted to Parliament. And I will not allow my Government to give him figures and notifications that are not fully validated!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u182	Prime Minister, I am glad that we have heard you for the first time. The day before yesterday you discussed the budget table in Le Soir and yesterday our group requested it. The budget table was promised to us this morning by your government, it would be made available to this Parliament and that is a good thing. We said at the time that we would not stop the debate and we would not proceed to a procedural battle. We look forward to those figures that have been promised, but they have been postponed, and just now the low point of your budget minister has said that he has had enough of that question. The problem is very simple to solve, Mr Michel, because no one is getting better from this spectacle, especially your government. You take Mr Jamar back from the buffet and you say: "That soup has been eaten, you come back and you put the table on the table." The problem at the moment is not the opposition. Nor is it the President-in-Office who is trying to make the best of it. The problem is your government, which already promised figures eight hours ago, to which citizens and businesses in this country are entitled. Solve it, it's your responsibility as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u183	Mr President, once again I have the feeling that the debate is taking on a strange, even surreal, meaning. I heard Mr Nollet wonder what we want to hide and say that the citizens do not know what to expect. Coming from you, Mr Nollet – that has already been said – it is very surprising given the management that was yours when you were a minister on a number of files. You should wait a little longer, Mr Nollet, before you forget a past that is too recent, and ask yourself publicly what people are hiding from by pointing out that they do not know what to expect. We really want to move forward. It is useful to resume the order of business and, if necessary, Mr President, we will ask for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u184	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, Prime Minister, Mr Ducarme, once again, history must not be violated. It's not like it never happened. I may be quite new in Parliament, but my more experienced colleagues from the group confirm that it has happened very often. In fact, I think it is a shame that we should debate this, Prime Minister. We are losing time and cannot continue the substantive debate. I say it again: this is due to your government and your minister. After all, he could not answer a number of questions this morning, but he said that the tables would be available two hours later. In the meantime, we've been eight hours, and we don't have the tables yet. So don't blame the opposition. Mr. Ducarme, don't tell me we're playing games. The game has begun with your minister. Will the government continue in this way, Prime Minister? On one day, things are first promised, and then they are not fulfilled. I therefore fear that you are facing a very serious problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u185	Mr President, I would just like to respond to the Prime Minister's remarks. Of course, Prime Minister, it is not the budget tables that are being requested, since they will be discussed in the Budget Committee. We're not fools! We know that this is not what needs to be tabled today. On the other hand, in the course of your negotiations, you have – I hope – made tables in which you put more and less to draw up the budget that you are presenting to us today. You boasted about it in the press. "This has never been done so precisely," you said. What I can also tell you is that under the previous government, with Liberals, including an appropriate minister, Open Vld, we have tabled, by presenting this budget, tables, which are not budget tables to be tabled in committee. With you... [[(Brouhahaha]] In the context of the declaration of the second Tuesday in October, like the discussion today. We did it! And I thank Mr. Jamar for coming home. Prime Minister, you told us yesterday in this forum that you wanted to be brave, transparent, show citizens the measures. But show them! Tell us how you finance them! Show us these tables that allow you to have this budget that you say is so detailed, so precise! Give them! We could have saved a lot of time, Mr. Ducrame, if Mr. Jamar had fulfilled his commitment just now. At 10:00 a.m., he promises to pass them on to us by noon. We could have saved six hours simply by fulfilling a commitment. If this government says things, makes commitments that are unfulfilled, if that is your way of doing things to re-enhance, to re-establish this link with the citizens, let me tell you that you have gone wrong! Either we work properly and you respect your commitments and you allow us to do a healthy work of opposition, or do not surprise you that debates are going on, because we continue to have to inform us! You participated in this discussion. You have these paintings. If you are not afraid, if you are proud, give them! It will save us all a lot of time and allow us to have a calm debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u186	You will have noticed, ladies and gentlemen, that the Minister for the Budget has now arrived. In other words, the request is without object, because it concerned the claim of a member of the government. (...): There were two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u187	One question can be put on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, the other not of course. The request is therefore without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u188	Mr President, I think it is useful for everyone to listen. The proposal that was made was that the figures would arrive quickly; that they would be presented to you quickly, because we have nothing to hide. So, as soon as possible, when in a government statement, these tables are never there, as the Prime Minister said. It is true that we may seem good to you in this majority, but we will still have to wait a while. In order to wait until such time as the data are complete, precise, as part of the opposition's request, we ask, Mr. Chairman, for the vote so that we can continue the work, the subject of the discussion on the government declaration.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have had an interesting debate so far. However, this is a debate on a procedure which is not subject to discussion, because the Minister is here. The second question, Mrs Temmerman, cannot really be put on the basis of Rule 50. So I suggest gentlemen simply continue the debate as we have been doing. Mr Nollet, two members of your group have already spoken. Quite apart from that, that is actually against the Rules of Procedure, but you may nevertheless make a very brief comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u190	Mr President, thank you for this greatness, which honours you. I just wanted to point out to Mr.Ducarme, who was perhaps not there this morning, that this has nothing to do with the past, but with a commitment that was made by the Budget Minister. It was seen and heard. Now, Mr President, before you proceed to the vote, if there is to be a vote, I propose that you circulate the words that appear in the record and that were delivered this morning in the sitting. Obviously, not everyone has heard them. I know that the services are able to display them on the screen. We can simply reread Mr Jamar's words, which were clear and explicit. Since the latter does not want to contradict himself, since he does not want to speak, these are the words that must be shown. Let him talk! He wants to speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u191	Mr. Chairman, I just wanted to turn myself into a lawyer to the Minister of Budget for 30 seconds so that he could be allowed to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u192	Dear Mrs. Onkelinx, I'm very Zen. I don't need a lawyer. I'll defend myself. Thank you very much, though, it says very kindly. I have asked for the floor four times and have been here since this morning. I haven't had the word four times; I've been cut off every time. That's it. I'm cut off. I'm done... Then, Mrs Onkelinx, excuse me, we get along very well, you presented me with a document adding that the Wallonia-Brussels Federation was in order. No, she's not. Hence my departure, which is the consequence of the figures which Entity 2 must send to Europe. Excuse me, because this is Mr Flahaut. These figures had to be verified. I would like to hear moral lessons here; I heard on television quote my name, which was accompanied by names of birds. I'll hear everything. Mr. Wathelet knows the budget, and he's also a friend. I'm just saying that none of this day has escaped me. I have provisional figures, but they are mainly because of Entity 2, i.e. the Walloon Region and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, we can describe these figures as work in progress. As long as the figures are not definitive and not validated, we should not use them, because that puts us on the wrong track. I therefore reiterate my proposal to continue our work and to continue the debate. Everybody okay? I assume we can just continue with the debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u194	The next speaker on my list is Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u195	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is first of all to you personally, Prime Minister, that I will speak to members of your government team. The last seven-two hours leave us with a bitter taste. We can agree or disagree on your political choices, but in a democracy, the establishment of a government and the declaration of government are two important moments. And yet, what a waste! Prime Minister, your ministers have sworn fidelity to the King, obedience to the Constitution and the laws of the Belgian people. Barely settled, your Minister of the Interior said that his participation in nostalgic meetings of the Eastern Front was a diverse fact and that the Nazi collaborators had their reasons. On the day of his swearing-in, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration and Flemish Minister N-VA of Mobility take part in a small party for the founder of the Vlaamse Militanten Orde, a banned extreme right-wing militia in our country. That's not all! We have also learned that the Minister of the Interior has just designated Mr. D., who was caught in flagrante delicto in front of the television stations, to throw his report on the public road while he was taking in his vehicle the president of the N-VA. In addition, he was illegal as the front and rear registration plates of his vehicle were different. What an example! The Minister of the Interior is also the head of the police. What a signal you're sending! You send the signal of the refusal to respect the rules and the disregard of the laws, unless you consider that your government is above the laws of the Belgian people or that the chief of staff of your Minister of the Interior considers himself untouchable. The Minister of the Interior, who has the first task of enforcing the laws of our country, must first enforce them himself by the members of his cabinet, should we recall that? And the story does not end there since this morning it is the emails of your Secretary of State to the Asylum and Migration in which he makes threatening and homophobic remarks, which resurface. Mr Franken also expressed his hope for the end of Belgium. It's humor, he says. Humor in any case in accordance with article 1 of the statutes of the N-VA. Is it necessary to remind here, Prime Minister, that organizing and instigating extreme right-wing meetings is criminally reprehensible? Is it worth recalling here that speaking homophobic words in writing is also condemnable in the eyes of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u196	I won't say too much about this, nor let it rush me, don't worry. If our colleague, Secretary of State, Theo Francken, is again accused by you of homophobia, I would like to point out that in the meantime two very competent fellow Members of Parliament, Piet De Bruyn and Lorin Parys, have said: "If Theo Francken is homophobic, we are straight." That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u197	This afternoon, Prime Minister, we also learn that the same Secretary of State, I quote, "hates his nationality". Prime Minister, your silence yesterday in the House on these facts - as I told you yesterday but I repeat - was deafening. Nothing, you didn't say anything here when you spent four hours with us in this assembly. My point here is not partisan. This is not a question of majority or opposition. Nor is it a question of the North or the South of the country. It is a question of democrats or non-democrats. Your silence yesterday, Prime Minister, is tantamount to condoning unacceptable behaviour. Because to remain silent in Parliament is to accept the unacceptable in our Belgian democracy. Prime Minister, your silence yesterday was a slap on all the Belgians who, like me, knew a member of their family deported to Germany during the war. Yesterday, you repeated the word "freedom" several times. "Freedom," you said! If your conception of freedom is to accept that the ministers of your Belgian government support a neo-Nazi organization, then we have no view of freedom in the same way. If your conception of freedom is to accept that your Minister of the Interior has as chief of staff someone who would be above the law and above the police, then we don't have the same conception of freedom. If your conception of freedom is to accept that one of your ministers speaks homophobicly and promotes extreme right-wing meetings by e-mail, considering that these words are anodizing, then decidedly, no, we do not have the same conception of freedom!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u198	Mrs Fonck, if it is your view of a parliamentary debate that you are allowed to spread gross lies here, then we have a different view of a parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u199	What message do you send to the general population? What benchmarks do you send to our young people? Try to explain to them what you're doing, Prime Minister. Are you going to tell the young and the old that you prefer to save your government, that you preferred to drug and save the nationalists of that government rather than to forcefully reaffirm the essential values of what underpins our democracy? You wanted a breakup government, you said. You got it. But what breakup? It's not the breakup you claimed. Never, ever, Prime Minister, could I have believed that a democrat such as you could get there! If you want to find, Prime Minister, a minimum of serenity for this government to work, we will have to do three things. First of all, we ask you to remove the Secretary of State, Mr Franken, from your government without delay. It no longer has its place in your government, after the accumulation of facts and attitudes that I have recalled. He should, no doubt, keep his explanations for the courts. We ask you, then, Prime Minister, to condemn here without delay, without concession, without any ambiguity the acquiescence of certain ministers with the collaborators of the Nazis and to pledge that this will not happen again. Finally, we ask you to take your responsibilities so that the Chief of Staff of the Minister of the Interior is dismissed. There can be no question of compromise on this subject, under penalty of sending the signal that the government is above the law, of sending as a signal to all the police officers you sit royally on their job! Prime Minister, you are a democrat, wake up! After your team, I come now, ladies and gentlemen, to your intentions. The N-VA-MR government finally has its program. It must be noted that you have not been rushed to present the fruit of your four and a half months of negotiations. Several versions of your government agreement have circulated. No press conference, no presentation of your program. In the first instance, it was necessary to play the trick and listen to each other's statements to find out what you had actually concluded. We have just spoken to each other about your credibility in view of those famous figures that we are promised but that we are not brought in. Not the detailed figures of course! You are not asked to present your budget before the hour, but at least the budget framework of your programme. We don't get anything when you announced a government of courage and responsibility. In this context, it is difficult, you will agree, to give credit to all the commitments made in the agreement. At this stage, however, I would like to highlight a number of positive points. Among these, I would like to mention, in particular, the extension of the time credit for sick children and palliative care – this measure is of long-standing importance to us – the alignment of self-employed pensions with employees or the strengthening of tax support for researchers. There are also some positive points in the area of taxation, provided you see what you will do with it in reality. The increase in the exchange transaction tax is a measure that can be approved pending the implementation of the financial transaction tax. On this point, I note that the government will continue the work of the previous government. At European level, Belgium is committed to implementing it. It must live up to its commitments. However, the party of the new Finance Minister is a member of a group in the European Parliament that has never supported this measure. We will, of course, be vigilant to ensure that you do not follow this group's position at European level. The government agreement also refers to a transparency tax on trusts and other legal constructions abroad. The future will tell us whether the additional revenues that are planned by the government will materialize. Apart from these elements, what is significant in your agreement is above all what is not in it, despite the promises of each other, despite certain promises from all the parties making up your majority and yet promises in key areas. Among these promises of the parties, including yours, Prime Minister, I will mention the contours of a tax reform. Words have been spoken, but nothing concrete has been announced: a few measures, at most, whose few expected benefits will be largely swallowed up by the jump in the index, to the detriment of the people who work, or other decisions that will seriously damage the budget of SMEs. I'll come back. Despite your promises, we do not hear anything major about the involvement of speculators and fraudsters. Nor is there any change in corporate tax or notional interest, while these represent 6 billion euros, of which only 10 % go back to Wallonia. No commitment or objective on the fight against tax fraud either. No immunization of spending on police or justice as planned by the previous government. Nothing about environmental policy, however, is known to be a major challenge of the 21st century. So many beautiful promises that you made, so many promises that disappeared as if by enchantment, so many unfulfilled promises, so many renunciations. Let us now study your measurements. The cdH can share a number of your goals. Is an accelerator needed at the socio-economic level? Yes. Is it appropriate to reform pensions to ensure their viability? Yes. Is it necessary to clean up the finances so as not to carry the debt burden on the heads of our children and grandchildren? Yes. Is it a matter of improving the competitiveness of our businesses and doing everything possible to increase the employment rate? Again, yes. Where the cdH doesn't join you, it's about how to get there. Your measures appear to be penalizing and unfair, because they will affect especially those who are already making the most of their efforts today. They also appear to be ineffective because certain measures, such as raising the legal age of the pension, are penalising and do not focus on the essential: supporting the career ends of older workers. Inefficient also because the loss of the standard of living of families and middle classes will affect consumption and activity. Let's detail these measures. As far as pensions are concerned, it is a little – not to say more – the world backwards. Raising the legal age of access to the pension makes no sense since the effective age of withdrawal from the labour market is considerably lower: on average 59 years. Yesterday, you argued that this decision was based on the conclusions of the Committee of Experts on Pensions. None of them confirmed this position. On the contrary, in recent days I have heard these experts say that they did not accept the raising of the legal age of pension in their conclusions. Prime Minister, that is just the opposite of what you supported us yesterday. Priority should be given to continuing efforts to gradually raise the effective age of retirement and to increase the employment rate of workers between 55 and 64 years of age. All of them, but especially this age group. You will reply that you agree on this point. At the same time, you decide on the contrary to delete the pension bonus. Go understand! I hear you, every member of this government, for the past week, completely trivialize this element of legal age. In your opinion, this measure will affect almost no one. I have heard him say by some ministers among you: this will affect almost no one. You add that this is not for this legislature, but for much later. Excuse me, but for you, it's swollen! Take the example of a nurse working in the hospital. The impact of your measures means to her, today, an increase in her career of five years, without guarantee in addition to taking into account at this stage the penitibility of the career. You're telling us that the 67-year-old transition isn't going to touch anyone. But, dear members of the government, all those who are now under the age of 50 are affected by your decision. All of them! Do not try a posteriori now, after seeing the reaction of the entire population and the media, to make us believe the opposite, that this is an insignificant measure that will not affect anyone. What is the meaning of raising the legal age of the pension without first taking measures to support and promote the employment of persons under 64? Many measures must be taken in this respect in terms of training, working conditions and reduction of working time. And it can be regretted that your decision without nuances and, moreover, incomprehensible does not fit into an overall plan for career ends. I told you, it's even worse. These announced measures go in the opposite direction: abolition of the pension bonus, restriction on end-of-career arrangements. No, it is no longer a question of encouraging people to work longer, but of punishing those who may not be able to reach the age of 65 and also punishing those who already make the most efforts, who are up to the age of 65, who will be the first to be affected and thus the first to be penalized. The government agreement also provides for various measures that will have an impact on labour costs and competitiveness. Should the competitiveness of enterprises be improved? Yeah, I said it a moment ago. Should the burden on work be reduced? Yes again! Impact of the index jump: if I believe the information on Twitter, Deputy Prime Minister – I saw you retweeted it –, 2.4 billion euros and the increase in the reduction of social contributions on the cost of work, is that real? Yes! But the only real question we are interested in is whether these measures will lead to an increase in activity and employment. And this index jump, it leads to a decrease in the consumption and confidence of families. In a context of near-deflation, this measure – and you know very well – is counterproductive for activity, and especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which direct their activity towards domestic demand. In addition, you tell us that this index jump will be socially corrected. In itself, it is very good for the lowest wages. But what does that mean? It means that again, it will be those who make the most effort that will again be penalized. On average, for an average wage of 3,200 euros gross, this gives a loss of at least 500 euros in the first year. I'm told the index jump will only happen once. But not of course, since this wage restriction will obviously be added to the entire career, which represents for a career of forty years, a loss of 20 000 euros. It's huge! The reduction in the social contributions rate from 33 to 25 per cent is a facial decrease. In reality, the actual rate is already much lower. So obviously, and that's why I'm very curious to see your tables - the famous tables - you recycle various existing measures to finance this reduction in the rate. I see you nodding your head, Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you for your honesty! The previous government had already provided for an envelope under its competitiveness pact. The real additional effort that is planned and announced to us by this government is EUR 1.3 billion. I have not seen any writing, these are your own words. So that's not exactly what it is. It's obviously much more limited than what you're announcing in your big statements because for many, it's recycling. In addition, it was mentioned earlier, but I will come back for a moment, I would be curious to hear you say: there is no intention of targeting these reductions in contributions, yet - and I am not saying this - of the studies, of the experts, I could mention a lot of them, you know them as well as I, clearly demonstrate that the impact is more important if these reductions are targeted at low wages. And worse, lowering the rate reduces the comparative advantage currently enjoyed by low-wage workers. What is striking, and what I have not heard from you yesterday or these last days in the media, is the fact that the measures you are proposing are obviously offset by other measures which clearly have a negative impact on the cost of work. I come back to what I mentioned earlier, namely the coverage of the period of illness for workers. It is increased by fifteen days for the workers and one month for the employees – you know the degressive scheme – and, for the self-employed, by two months. The additional cost to employers is important. And this, without taking into account - and I do remember the promises of each other - the increasing administrative complexity that this change will entail. It is particularly penalising, again, for small and medium-sized enterprises. Why? Because they have a much more limited capacity to absorb this extra cost. I was talking to you earlier about the reaction of the Secretary General of the Union of Middle Classes, Mrs Lhoste, whom you know very well, Prime Minister. What you give with one hand, you take with the other. She says it, she says it and she confirmed it. The bosses and independents I've met over the last few days have all asked me about this decision, in three ways. First of all, I have just said so, because there will be major negative impacts on their competitiveness. They also tell me about it because it is mainly Wallonia that will suffer the effects, because of the richness of its fabric in small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, because sick people who have the courage and the will to work are at great risk, tomorrow, of being no longer engaged - precisely because of this. That's it! The cost of labour is also likely to increase as a result of other changes in the government agreement: higher health insurance premiums, higher travel costs due to higher excise duties and SNCB tariffs, higher diesel, to mention just a few. I have just spoken of the Secretary General of the Union of Middle Classes, but I would like to read to you here the reaction of the President of the Neutral Union for Independents, Mrs Christine Mattheeuws: "This government had said that it would not tax entrepreneurs even more, but it seems that it is once again words in the air". The president continued: "We are still afraid that other absurd measures will come out of Charles Michel & C°'s magic hat" These are the words of the president of the Neutral Union for Independents. The parties of this government coalition have all campaigned on the need to restore purchasing power to families and those who work. However, I must note that the N-VA - MR government decides exactly the opposite. With this government, the standard of living of families and middle classes will decline. I've already talked about index jumping, it's the middle classes that will be fully impacted. Yet, Prime Minister, during the election campaign, you said you didn't want to touch salary indexation. But it is true that you are not in your first renunciation and misappropriation of your electoral commitments. The increase in diesel excise duties will penalise rural areas or all those who travel many kilometres to work. The impact of these various measures has been estimated on a worker currently receiving an average wage of €3,200. You don't have a picture, even with the budget outline. So I'm offering you another picture. We don't have your macro tables, so we did a little exercise on a micro table about the reality of a worker with a salary of 3,200 euros. When measuring the impact per year, the following can be seen: - increase in professional fees: + EUR 250; - index jump: - 500 euros; - wage moderation: - EUR 316; - excise duty on diesel, based on a journey of 20 000 kilometres per year: 192 euros. This alone gives us an impact of the measures decided, a negative impact of 750 euros net per year. And this does not take into account all that I have not been able to calculate: the possible increase in SNCB's tariffs or a series of larger costs, in particular the increase in VAT in the construction sector, the abolition of the bonus-pension, the reduction of the income guarantee allowance. You wanted a breakup government, you got it! These measures are a clear break in citizens' confidence and will lead to a decline in consumption with negative effects on employment and economic activity for SMEs. Prime Minister, I have already sent you three requests. Here again, I would like to present you with new socio-economic proposals this time. First of all, to implement a genuine tax reform worthy of this name, by reducing the burden on labour, with a raise in pocket wages, a decrease in the burden on SMEs and a decrease in ISOC. We ask you to do so through a reform of notional interests, because all this costs and we must be able to find financial mannes. Let us stop massively supporting multinationals that create only a small number of jobs in Belgium or, for some, if they create them, outsourced employment. Instead, let us promote a tax system that is heavily oriented towards our SMEs, which create jobs that are anchored in our home and few, if any, outsourced. Start tomorrow a consultation with the social partners to review your copy on pensions and index reform. A few proposals in this area: first, to put the pension bonus back in place, improving it – of course, it is improved – but maintaining it and combining it with qualitative improvements at the end of the career. There is nothing to prevent you at some point from allowing those who want to continue to work after 65 years of age to do so; but necessarily to reduce the legal age of the pension to 67, I told you earlier, it is nonsense. Review your copy also on the index jump. We cannot accept that those who are already making a great deal of effort, and especially the middle classes, should be penalized. Because even the bosses of small and medium-sized enterprises are not in favour of index jumps. It is true that this provides a one-time benefit of 2%, but at the same time it also leads to a decrease in consumption. On the contrary, it would be essential not to reduce the worker's net wage but to reduce the burden on work to enable employers to find ways to grow and hire staff. Prime Minister, you have told us, and others have repeated it in this rostrum, that the government agreement does not contain institutional reform. And yet, from the community, there are everywhere! Several decisions of your government have an important community connotation. The composition of the government first, in the figures, in the competences: domestic policy, justice. Ministers N-VA, who have particularly important powers for the respect of Francophones: the control of the use of languages, the organisation of elections, the staffing of police areas, appointments within the federal police force; and, more symbolically, the organisation of 21 July. Several measures, as I said, have a heavy impact on SMEs. In terms of mobility, the same thing. Are there Community dimensions? Yes, very clearly! I am thinking here, in particular, of rural areas. The same goes for bpost. As far as Defence is concerned, there is no commitment to the balance between French- and Dutch-speaking in the army. And what about the institution? The institution, you will tell me, there is no question of it. However, it was not necessary to wait until your government's oath was given that Minister Weyts, a member of the N-VA, with competence in the field of Mobility at the level of the Flemish government, was already trying to undermine your commitment to comply with the sixth reform of the State by wanting to regionalise the driving licence. Weyt operations like this one risk counting in dozens. The big question is whether your government, Prime Minister, will resist the Flemish government's permanent will to encroach on federal jurisdiction. This is also where your commitment not to look at the institution and the Community will be judged. I cannot, of course, speak now and here about all the issues and themes of the government declaration. My colleagues will address them earlier in the thematic debates. For the time being, I would like to address the last part of my speech. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you have announced a government of rupture, responsibility and courage. First of all, it is a government that breaks with the commitments made during your election campaign. You're going to say that when we negotiate, we have to compromise. But there is no compromise here. This is a break from the founding elements – in any case, I thought – of your electoral programme, in which you made public, strong, and repeated commitments. The decline in the legal age of the pension has, to date, become a common subject. The N-VA has become perfectly frequentable. The index jump has become obvious. Legalizing SMEs by doubling the duration of the guaranteed wage has become a formality. This agreement therefore severely penalizes families, middle classes and SMEs: loss of standard of living, impact on economic activity and employment, in particular – I repeat – in SMEs, are at work. The list is not exhaustive. We will have an opportunity to come back to it later. These are all renunciations one after the other. These renunciations undermine the link of democratic trust between elected officials and the population. Your agreement is not an agreement that unites, it is an agreement that divides! It will lead to a loss of cohesion in Belgian society. Maybe that's what some of you want. I regret that a party like yours, Prime Minister, has fallen into this trap. These repeated renunciations also undermine the breath and ambition that we could, which we were entitled to expect from a new government. For all these reasons and many others that will come later, during the debates, my group will not give you its confidence. Before I finish, I would like to ask you one more question, Prime Minister. Who is the boss of this N-VA-MR government? Mr. Michel, you are the Prime Minister, but we understand, we heard that Mr. De Wever is the architect and conductor of this government. It must be acknowledged that Mr. De Wever did a great job! The N-VA could not destroy Belgium from the outside. So she's trying to destroy it from within the government. What a paradox! Prime Minister, your party allowed him to settle in. Hat! Hat, Mr De Wever! The N-VA will core the core of the federal state with a single objective: to succeed in defining policies only according to the needs of Flanders and, if possible, to do everything possible to implement Article 1 of the statutes of the N-VA. The N-VA managed to block the core of the federal reactor according to its own objectives: the independence of Flanders; all this by remaining on the balcony in Antwerp! If it works, it will be thanks to it and if it doesn't work, it will be because of the others but, in any case, for the N-VA, it will be the jackpot!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u200	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u201	Mr President, I have no problem with the Prime Minister being heard, but a very clear agreement has been made at the Conference of Presidents, part of a broader package of agreements on the arrangements for the work, which the Prime Minister would intervene at the end of the various speeches. That was the deal. You were there, Mr Bracke. We have sought a consensus. Mr Vuye was there too, by the way. That was an explicit agreement, inter alia at the request of a number of colleagues from the opposition. As far as I am concerned, the Prime Minister can intervene, because he must do something about this. However, after the last forty-eight hours, it seems to me appropriate, if agreements were reached at the Conference of Presidents, to respect them as well. This majority represents a very clear choice. Either she tries to make good agreements with the opposition, or it will be carnival here every week, and I fear that this is not a good idea. An agreement was made, but apparently it is not respected, and that does not seem to me to be an ideal way of working.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u202	Mr Calvo, first of all, you yourself have asked a number of times for a response from the Prime Minister. Secondly, Article 100 of the Constitution provides that when the government requests the floor, it cannot be refused. I therefore give the floor to the Prime Minister without discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u203	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to all the Members who have intervened and I would like to thank both the members of the opposition and the majority for their interventions. We are having a political debate here at the heart of democracy. The start of this new legislature is an important moment for our country. For the next five years, we must determine what direction we are going to take, what political decisions we are taking and what social and economic decisions we are taking for our country. The first point I would like to stress is that this government is based on the political commitments supported by four parties. Some members have already intervened on our first commitment, namely our strong will to give priority to socio-economic measures. That is a very clear and strong commitment. When I look back at the last ten years, I see that any form of government was accompanied by a permanent Community debate, with Community difficulties. A second point concerning the institutions of our country and the institutional standstill is the question of the revision of the Constitution. There too, I have listened carefully to the questions. We will do what is always done in Belgium in this regard, especially at the end of the legislative term, taking decisions on the revision of the Constitution. That is what is being done systematically in our country. This was also the case during the previous legislature. A few weeks before the elections, there was a political debate within the majority on the future of the Constitution and its revision. That's very clear. For the rest, we have a strong political commitment, namely a full and loyal implementation of the sixth state reform. The sixth state reform was supported by many parties. Some of these parties are in the majority today, others are in the federal opposition. There was a large political consensus with a broad political majority to move towards the sixth state reform. The political commitment of the four government parties is the loyal and concrete implementation of the sixth state reform. I am of course aware that, within such a framework – and this is the will of the entire government – it will be essential that the concertation committee, which brings together the federated entities and the federal state, be able to find its full place to put in order in a correct, wise, realistic and responsible manner the decisions that have been taken, which concern both the funding mechanisms between the federal state and the federated entities, but also the transfer of powers. Would there be naivety? Is there a somewhat silly feeling in this government that this first institutional commitment would eliminate any discussion with a Community dimension? Of course not! There is no shadow of naivety either in the government or in the majority. Of course, in a systematic way, behind economic and social issues, there may be issues of a community nature. During these three months of negotiations, I have seen a willingness to be in the spirit of an economic and social solution for our country. I wish and pledge that this spirit of solution can dominate in the coming months and years. This is something I wanted to highlight. Ladies and gentlemen, you have clearly understood that economic and social reforms are the government's absolute priority. They are a top priority for us, following the stabilisation of our country in 2010 and 2011, with the sixth state reform, which was decided by a government of which my party was also a member. I'm assuming. Now is the time for social and economic reform. Firstly, we had to take responsibility for the budget and the budgetary framework. That was crucial. At the same time, we must fulfil our European commitments, with a balance in 2018. The easing of the trajectory was a clear political choice. We do not want austerity for austerity. On the contrary, we want to give this government the full capacity to succeed in fiscal consolidation and to implement in parallel – and it is not simple – clear and responsible economic and social stimulus measures that I will return to in a few moments. In the budgetary framework, a first choice was made and was highlighted by my colleague Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters: we chose to consider that there could be no overall tax and parafiscal increase. This means, unlike the choices that have been made in the past, that the bulk of the fiscal consolidation effort is based on savings in spending: ensuring that the State reduces its life cycle and, in addition, undertaking reasonable and responsible reforms in the field of social security. I will also come back to this important point. I would add that all this will be done with a 70/30 report, 30 per cent in new revenue, 70 per cent in expenditure cuts, which is exactly the opposite of what has been done in previous years. This shows the extent of the structural nature of the reforms that we want to implement economically and socially. To say that we want to implement these reforms is not enough for us. We have the absolute will to add the word to the acts. For us, the first major objective – and I hope it is shared by this House – is the creation of activity, the creation of jobs. Because the only truly convincing, truly sustainable social policy, the only long-term policy that guarantees the possibility of paying for pensions, quality health care for everyone, and of assuming responsibility when faced with the opposite winds of existence, for example when one has an accident at work, is to create additional jobs, it is to broaden the base of those who, through their work, are in solidarity, and through their contributions, contribute to the financing of social security. In this respect, we are 100 % coherent. We have made decisions for competitiveness, which means that there will be capacity for our small, medium and large enterprises to grow, to innovate more and to create more jobs thanks to more resources. Our decisions in this area are a strong political signal: we are using about EUR 4 billion to eliminate the pay handicap completely before the end of the legislature. That is a political choice, an important political signal that has never been given in recent years. For the government, for the four partners, a strong signal in terms of competitiveness was not enough. That is why we have also decided to give more purchasing power, not only to those working, but also to those not working. We want to achieve fiscal reform and we do not want to wait. That is why tax resources will be provided for those working in 2015. To do this, we will use professional fees. In short, this will make it possible to focus more heavily on the low- and middle-income people who work and who - this has been recognised a few moments ago - will receive, year after year, an average of 250 euros per year and per taxpayer. It is therefore a clear signal that is given. Finally, at the same time, in connection with the decision on index jump, I want to put the points on the "i", because I have heard a few fariboles about it. We consider that this "well-being" envelope should be mobilised at more than 100% in comparison with the previous legislature, since it will be increased by around 130 million euros. That is the social decision we have taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u204	Stop making us take bladders for lanterns! With regard to the Monitoring Committee, I invite you, Prime Minister, to reread pages 118, 135 and 138: following the decision of the former government, 100 per cent of the sums intended for well-being were recorded. So this is not a new policy. It is not a question of compensating for the index jump that will impoverish the workers, but of copying a decision that was taken at the initiative of the Socialists at the end of the legislature. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u205	Stay calm, relax, everything's going well. Allow me to react, Mrs.Onkelinx, because it is probably a detail for you – as the song says – but for us it is not. Not the first euro of financing was foreseen in this decision. Secondly, is it correct, yes or no, that the previous government only mobilised 60% of the "well-being" envelope? That means half a billion euros less!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u206	We know that Mr. Michel has sometimes said misconceptions. We found this between the pre-election campaign and the post-campaign. I repeat what I mentioned at the rostrum earlier, namely, that I accept all the decisions that have been taken by the former government. Indeed, initially, the envelope was used to 60% and in the competitiveness pact, which we decided at the end of the legislature, on the proposal of the Socialists, the envelope was increased to 100%...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u207	Without funding! Without money!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u208	It's on the Monitoring Committee, my dear Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue by saying that for us, if we want to create jobs, it is not simply a matter of working on the reduction of burdens, which are barriers to hiring and which put the ability to maintain jobs in difficulty. There is indeed a need to work on the easing of the labour market. We respect the fact that there may be different views on this subject. We are convinced that when we are working on measures to promote overtime in the Horeca, or when we are considering the annualization of working time so that we can better reconcile personal and working life and, at the same time, give our companies more capacity for development, when we are freeing up student work to remove the rigidities that exist today, we are helping to take positive measures for the capacity to create jobs, which is extremely important for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u210	Prime Minister, you're talking about what's going to get into the workers' pocket and the support you're giving to businesses. You said it and repeated it. But what you are not talking about, or even now - and out of honesty, you could answer us - is what you are taking away from them on the other hand. You tell us about the additional 250 euros per year related to the increase in professional fees. In parentheses, if that's what you call a tax reform that was supposedly 15 billion in the election campaign, we're far from it! But let's go! However, beside the additional 250 euros, you withdraw 500 euros for index jump, 316 euros for wage moderation, not to mention diesel excises. I made it to you earlier: minus 750 net euros per year. And what do you say to the Union of the Middle Classes? What do you answer to the Neutral Union for Independents when they tell you that your measures are not positive for companies, because you withdraw more than one hand than you give from the other. I come back to the coverage of the period of illness of the workers, as you know very well, this will have a major impact on the employers. Prime Minister, it is good to talk to us about what is in the agreement, but out of intellectual honesty, answer both what is in the agreement and what you are much less proud of.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u211	In terms of intellectual honesty, it is true that I will experience some difficulty in being able to compete on the... Is it possible to speak without systematically hearing almost hysterical cries? Is that possible for you? With regard to the question of purchasing power, I have responded with clarity and referred to it in the government statement. It is precisely because we are mobilized to increase the volume of employment that we are implementing the first and best possible measures to ensure that those who work, who have low or low wages, can be encouraged. Secondly, as far as the status of the self-employed and SMEs is concerned, and I was going to do so, it is a subject that is at the heart of the coalition as a whole. I welcome your concern on this subject, and we have not always seen the same mobilization in previous years to implement the necessary reforms in the area of social protection for the self-employed. A few very concrete points simply. First, we have mobilised more than EUR 150 million to ensure that progress on the social status of the self-employed can be finalized. This means, very concretely, finalizing the equalisation of pensions for the self-employed, calculated as for the employees. Additional point: Access to the second pension pillar for the self-employed is now allowed. Finally, it concerns the self-employed too, and I would like to highlight this: from now on, without any limit on remuneration, the self-employed and the employees who wish to do so will be able to continue to work without being punished. You have in the past fought a lot against this measure! On guaranteed wages, we fully assume the favourable, positive measures, and the more difficult, more delicate measures. You said a few minutes ago that the figures were farfelus, talking about EUR 6 billion. The Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Kris Peeters, corrected the point just now by saying well, and I repeat here for clarity, that this is a maximum amount of more or less EUR 350 million. Modalities must be defined in consultation with the government and stakeholders. Furthermore, this measure will not come into force until 2016. These are clear, precise, numerical answers to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u212	Mr President, I actually asked to speak at the beginning of the Prime Minister's speech. You didn't think it was necessary to give it to me then, and I understand that. I thought I would have the Prime Minister give a full statement and then reply to him, but you have interrupted him yourself and given the floor to Mrs Onkelinx. That is why I am asking for the floor again for two points. First of all, there is a new fact. Prime Minister, you said at the beginning of your speech that it would be the first government without federal or Community reforms. Perhaps we have heard this here a few times, different versions of the coalition agreement. There is a CD&V version, there is another version and I now have to conclude that the N-VA apparently has another version. Mr Bourgeois said the following in the Flemish Parliament this afternoon. I read from the Minutes: "The federal government agreement does contain a passage that will be submitted with a declaration for revision of the Constitution in the course of this term of office." So that's what the coalition agreement says!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u213	I give a precise answer to such questions, and I do measure that it embarrasss you. The text of the government statement is clear. I persist and sign: I confirm. I also confirm this in Dutch. As usual in this country, there may be a debate on the revision of the Constitution at the end of the legislature. That's nothing new, nothing more and nothing less. Period.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u214	I now give the floor to Mr Calvo. Mrs. Temmerman, you will also be discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u215	Prime Minister, I have a very specific question that you have already asked 137 times. I am waiting for you to finish your speech and perhaps you will put that table on the table at the end of your speech. I'm gonna leave it that way. I'd like to let the Prime Minister finish first. I'm expecting the table later.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u216	I would now like to continue with the inquiries that have been addressed to us on the ground of the...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u217	There is a sentence that I do not understand well in your government agreement: "At the end of the legislature, as the electoral system provides and allows the Constitution, it will be up to the voters to decide on the various political projects." Admit that this sentence is difficult to understand, unless we listen to the comments made again by your Deputy Prime Minister Jan Jambon who says: "As Kris Peeters said, for the next five years there is no reform of the state, but we cannot accept an institutional status quo for ten years. No reform of the state is possible under this legislature because Di Rupo locked everything up." Yes, indeed, Prime Minister, it was not you, it was indeed under the former legislature that everything was locked up. Jan Jambon continued: "On the other hand, all choices must be open so that, at the end of the legislature, the will of the electorate can be met. If in the elections Flanders and Wallonia together call for a reform of the state, it will have to be possible to carry it out. The elector must be able to decide." So I ask you, by listening to Mr Jambon's comments in an interview, whether there is, or not, an agreement between you to open the articles of the Constitution to a large extent for revision and then to prepare a reform of the State? This is a simple question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u218	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is an agreement, a 152-page agreement, which we will carry out in detail, from the first page on the top left to the last page on the bottom right. That is the agreement we are bound by. In addition, there are the Constitution and the laws of this country. Of course we can apply it. Mr Peeters says that it is possible that in the next legislature we may have to implement the electorate's will and carry out institutional reforms again. I will then be on his side to secure the reforms that we will be implementing over the next five years. Perhaps that will require a constitutional change. However, we will see this at the end of the legislature, as the Constitution requires. That is in our agreement, no more and no less.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u219	Mr President, some have been working for 15 minutes on the question of how Parliament will be dissolved. I propose that we return to the questions and give the floor to the Prime Minister to answer the question of how we will work in Parliament over the next five years and what content of the project we intend to implement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u220	Mr. Speaker, with respect to a government policy statement, we have the right to ask questions throughout the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u221	Mr President, Mr Jambon, in his speech, wanted to reassure us; on the contrary, he threw the trouble. It's not new to him. What he tells us is extraordinary: "If we do not have the guarantee that what we will do under this government will be sustained, we need the guarantee of a commitment to carry out a revision of the Constitution". That's what Mr Jambon just announced! Mr Michel, that is the contradiction of what you are telling us. It is permanent blackmail to the reform of the state if you do not have the policy that the N-VA wants!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u222	I can measure the extent of the sadness of Mr Olivier Maingain: he, politically, has been living with institutional and community bombs for many years.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u223	One important aspect is forgotten in this discussion. It is true that at the end of this parliamentary term this Parliament will have to give its opinion on what articles are to be revised, but the ministers must also do so, not the State Secretarys. So Mr Onkelinx's question is quite right. Is there an agreement, yes or no? I conclude from Minister Jambon's reply that there is only an agreement on what is in the coalition agreement, no more or no less. I can therefore conclude that the French speakers in this Council of Ministers can block things perfectly and veto them at the end of this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u224	Mr President, Prime Minister, I too have read the agreement. Second page of the agreement: a sentence is incomprehensible: "We will take into account the will of the voters". But that's all that's missing! "As the Constitution allows", but why do we need this authorization? Secondly, you are already announcing today that there will be a revision declaration. And Mr Jambon confirms that this revision declaration must allow for institutional reforms. Say it!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u225	Let me say that we are in a fun, totally fun, very, very fun situation, where we have a clear and precise government agreement on institutional issues that says there is a standstill on institutional issues for five years. We have the government that repeatedly replies that, as is customary in Belgium at the end of the legislature, any questions of constitutional revision will be considered. I note in passing that in this country many institutional reforms can be made without even touching the Constitution and therefore without making a declaration of revision of the Constitution; I remember because I have a little memory, that Article 195 of the Constitution was a proposal of the Socialist Party a few months before the end of the legislature and that we, together with the CDH and other parties, have marked our opposition to that. But we want, repeatedly, to try to provoke institutional guerrillas, community guerrillas! It doesn't work on socio-economics and so you try institutional war; it won't work! It won't work!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u226	Mr Calvo has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u227	Colleagues, the smallest child can see what is being tried here. Both colleagues in the opposition and in the government are looking for polarisation. I agree with you, Prime Minister. We, as ecologists, have helped to put the Community agenda in the refrigerator. We felt that socio-economic reforms were necessary. So I agree with you when you say that we must stop communitizing every debate, but start with your own ministers and your own secretaries of state. They must also put their symbols, statements and polarisation in the refrigerator for five years. Start with that. My second point is the figures. I wanted you to have the figures, but Mr Jamar has an A3 with figures up to 2019. The paper's here on the table. The budget table is on the table here. He's reading it. Divide that table, make it public. Stop the movies! Give me those numbers! Give me those numbers!!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u228	Mr Michel has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u229	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u230	Later, Mrs. Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u231	(...) gets the floor twice and I never get the floor. I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u232	Come on, Mrs. Temmerman. Mr Michel has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u233	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u234	Mr Michel has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u235	Is it possible to continue quietly and serenely? I would like to have the opportunity to respond to the other points raised by Members in the debate. Tax has been mentioned by several members of this Parliament. I want to confirm to you, as has already been said earlier, that we want to protect as much as possible the people who work, the people who want to work. In fact, there is, for one thing, a tax slide to avoid, as much as possible, penalising people who work. This is how this government proposes to increase taxation on banks, stock exchanges and legal constructions abroad also known as trusts and, lastly, – this had not been possible in previous years – to put an end to the tax privilege of intercommunals which, while subject to competition with the private sector, did not pay taxes. In the future, they will pay taxes like everyone else. In terms of security and justice, several of you have intervened. Security is the first of our citizens' freedoms. The State has a huge responsibility in ensuring security. That is why we also make strong decisions on security. This is how we continue the reforms in the field of justice. At the same time, there is the political will to reform the Criminal Code and also to reform the procedures, with the overall aim of increasing speed in a judicial process. This is very important for the victims and in a broader sense for all citizens who may be involved in justice. For example, we will introduce the guilty plea procedure to save time, where possible without questioning fundamental rights and the rights of the defence. In the field of security, we will continue to make efforts to ensure that, as far as possible, our police officers are present in the field, as close as possible to the concerns, to ensure security; and as little as possible to be held by administrative burdens in the offices. This is an extremely important course of action for us. We're going to be very involved. Finally, there is another important security issue: the rise of extremism, radicalism and terrorism. We are facing a world that is changing. We are no longer in the period of bipolar regime with two worlds facing each other and facing each other. International threats have become multipolar. Governments are facing new forms of danger. Of course, I can imagine that in this House we are all terribly shocked by the rise in power, sometimes a few hours away from our borders, of regions of the world where extremism, barbarism and terrorism are the law and the rule. We are convinced that our Government must take seriously this threat to all our citizens, by being mobilized in a form of international solidarity in terms of the ability to defend fundamental values and principles that hold us to heart, but also by being mobilized and determined on Belgian territory, with clear, strong measures, which I outlined yesterday in the government statement and on which we will have the opportunity, in parliamentary debates, to come back to implement legislative initiatives. I also confirm that a high security council with the ministers concerned and the Prime Minister will be an important initiative. He will play a very important role in this context. That is an important signal and an important message.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u236	Mr President, I am trying to find out what part of the debate we are in. I hear the Prime Minister answer questions raised this morning in the Chamber. I also hear him answer questions that have not even been asked yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u237	You should have been there.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u238	I've been here all along.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u239	You have to listen, then.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u240	You even answer questions about justice. Prime Minister, I am not speaking to you right now, and I do not want to argue with you at this stage, but with the Speaker of this House. I do not understand very well where we are in the debate, since not all the speakers for the general statements have yet spoken. There will then be thematic discussions. And it is at the end of these that the government speaks, often through the voice of its Prime Minister, to provide the answers to Parliament. I therefore do not know why we are anticipating, when the debate is not over. Does the Prime Minister have to leave us or will he still answer the many questions that await him?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u241	Mr. Brotcorne, yes, he'll answer later. Ms. Onkelinx, for example, asked questions about justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u242	Mr President, thank you for allowing me to continue to respond to the questions that have been asked since this morning. I would now like to turn to an important point, in particular social dialogue. Many things have been said about this and I want to be very clear. Firstly, there is a general commitment in our coalition agreement to social dialogue. Belgium is a country with a very strong tradition in this respect. Social security is an example of the progress made in recent years in the context of strong, positive and constructive social dialogue. That is a very important point and a very important issue for the four parties of the coalition. The decision has been taken to work as much as possible in the logic of a tripartite and to try to conclude agreements with the government and the social partners as far as possible with a view to the important socio-economic structural reform that we want to implement. That is a first overall strong political commitment. I'm not deaf. I see the nervousness and I hear the questions that are being asked in the context of the social dialogue. Today I reaffirm the government's invitation to engage in a positive and constructive dialogue on our coalition agreement next week after the parliamentary debates with all the social partners. That's an important message. In thirty passages of the coalition agreement there are concrete commitments to implement the reform in consultation with the social partners. There is no doubt about that. If one finds at some point that it is not possible to take decisions in the context of social dialogue, I confirm that it is then the responsibility of the government and Parliament to take decisions. That makes sense. That's important. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close this reaction by trying to finalize it. I heard words yesterday afternoon and this morning again at the limit of insulting me, personally, with the heavy words of implying, with insidious words. My two grandfathers experienced war; one of them returned from the sick camps and died some time later. For me and for my entire government, without any ambiguity, we condemn collaboration: it is a crime. And an unjustifiable crime. Yesterday, only a few minutes before the beginning of the plenary session, I read a statement from a political party on facts that concerned one of the Secretaries of State, a member of that government, present at a birthday party of a person I did not know and on which I inquired. I found that Bob Maes was a member of the Senate for many years as part of his membership in a political party, Volksunie. It is a political party with which, during certain Senate mandates of Bob Maes, the Socialist Party, the Christian Social Party, the FDF and the sp.a participated by a majority during three governments; that the Socialist Party was present three times in a government in Brussels with the Volksunie.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u243	Mr Michel, that your new political friends take liberties with history is already not glorious. But if you take it in your turn, it's either ignorance because you would be misinformed, but then you have to learn to keep quiet, or it's malicious insinuation! If you are going to reread the parliamentary annals, you will find that for the three governments of which my party was a member, with the PS and the SCP of the time, each time, Mr.Maes opposed these governments and did not vote for confidence in governments. That is to say, Mr. Maes was not in the majority government. So he was not an ally of a majority. He was out of the majority. That is the historical truth! You're lying, Mr. Michel!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u244	In your opinion, he was not so much a member of a majority that he even chaired a commission in the Senate, which would not have been possible without the support of your majority!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u245	Clearly, Mr Michel knows neither his history nor the functioning of Parliament, where including members of the opposition committee chair! That's bullshit! Beyond that, I have never questioned Mr Michel's democratic convictions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u246	Good news!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u247	What I blame him for is what he just did. Try, in a way, to explain that his secretary of state could go to a facho birthday party. Secondly, it is not to condemn those members of his Government who make unacceptable statements. That is what is expected of you! (...): You cover them!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u248	Mrs Onkelinx, ladies and gentlemen, I have been extremely clear about this!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u249	If this can help you, because obviously you need to hear several times to understand the message that is given, we have experienced it on issues related to institutional reform... I also confirm it in Dutch for the sake of clarity. Collaboration is a crime; we condemn it! The whole government shares this conviction, there is no doubt about it! You have been trying for several hours to insinuate, shockingly and scandalously, doubt on my personal ability to assume democratic convictions. Very objectively, the words that have been made are injuring, shocking. They insinuate doubt about fundamental freedoms, beliefs and rights. I persist and I sign: there is no ambiguity in my government! We are committed to our democratic convictions: tolerance, freedom, responsibility! There is no doubt about this!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u250	The democratic debate is harsh, and that is normal. I accept the debate on the confrontation of ideas, arguments. I accept the respect we have to show ourselves. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u251	That's not a sign of respect, for example! I would point out, with great sobriety and calmness, to the opposition colleagues, for whom I have respect, and despite the fact that I do not share their convictions, that this majority will be part of cohesion. This majority is gathered around a government program for the next five years. We will not be under pressure, we will not be intimidated! We will act, take responsibility to give a positive capacity for the future, in favour of all the citizens of our country. This is the commitment of responsibility that we take tonight, in the months and years to come!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u252	Mr President, Prime Minister, it would have been expected of you today that you would have distanced yourself, that you would strongly and unambiguously condemn the various statements made by your two ministers, first of all Deputy Prime Minister Jan Jambon, who said that the collaborators had their reasons. No reason can explain the collaboration. You didn't do it when it's the third or fourth time you've been asked. Then the chief of staff of the same Deputy Prime Minister of the Interior committed crimes. There can be no justification for this type of behaviour on the part of a chief of staff of the minister in charge of that department. Prime Minister, you also used the political technique when you were asked to be ethical, ethical and up to a statesman. Don't get upset, Mr. Michel, I know you're trapped. I'm just saying that you also have a secretary of state who – he acknowledged it – sent emails with homophobic, racist and extremist content that are criminally reprehensible. Yet we have not heard anything about it. There has never been a condemnation on your part, a condemnation that could have brought some serenity to your government. As you know perfectly well, you cannot have in your government a character – he is sitting a few meters away from me – who wrote this kind of speech. Indeed, these are extreme and violent statements. Yet this same character is, today, at the heart of your government. Prime Minister, you have installed the N-VA with everything that it represents extreme in certain behaviors. These are proven behaviors, not suspicious behaviors or some kind of printing. You said, however, Prime Minister – but you said a lot before the election – that the N-VA had racist hints. This is not a question of relents, but of writings:scripta manent, flying verba, and only the resignation of your Secretary of State will allow Belgium to save its honour. But you prefer to save your own skin and that of your government. It's your decision. We can only regret it!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u253	You're worrying, Mr Lutgen, or you're deaf! Did you not hear what our Prime Minister said just a few minutes ago on behalf of his government? Didn't you hear? But you are in very bad faith! If you have not heard it, the whole House has heard it, as has Belgium as a whole. Continue to be in bad faith as you are, it is worrying!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u254	Mr President, it is now repeated and it has been for months that the N-VA, which is a democratic party, has been called racist by some members of the cdH. I have already responded to this in the press, because in Flanders these words are unacceptable. I would like to put the following question to Mr Lutgen and Mr Delpérée. Do they really think that I am chairing a group of 33 racists here and that that group has gained the confidence of 33% of the Flemish people? Are they all racists?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u255	Mr. Chairman, the question does not arise with respect to your group members; it arises first, Prime Minister, with respect to two members of your government. [[...]] Is that your respect? Just listen and calmly to what I'm going to tell you. You asked a question, I'll answer you. Yes, there are people in your group who are now sitting in the government who either make extreme remarks or have organized secret far-right meetings and have made homophobic comments – it's written black and white in an email. We can't be clearer. It's punishable. I will even tell you one thing: at the National Front, in France, when someone speaks homophobic words, we get him out of the party. In the Belgian government, we do not dare to do so. You think that's normal, sir? I'm not. This shockes me deeply in my convictions. I did not say that the 33 members of your group were racist. Certainly not, I never said that! But attitudes, attitudes and ambiguity about proven facts, yes, show that! When we talk about extreme parties, for example VMO and VNV, it was hatred of Walloons – but not only. When your party president, my dear sir, called the Walloons "junkies," yes, they were racist statements in the broad sense of the word. That means we reject another community. That's not my vision of society. If this government wants a unifying and unifying project as it tries to say in an incredible incantation, but it shows - and now! – that the defence of our country's fundamental values, tolerance, the fight against xenophobia and anti-Semitism, etc., cannot suffer any ambiguity in a Belgian government. Mr Franken made clear homophobic and racist remarks. So he no longer has a place in our country's government. Punt!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u256	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, unlike Mr Vuye, I never engage in personal attacks, attacks that call into question the person, whether he is his physical, his behaviour, his attitudes. No! I am debating ideas because I am a parliamentarian and I, as the representative of the Nation, must participate in this debate of ideas. So I never said – you won't find a word from me saying that – that all the elected or all the voters of a political party would be racists. On the other hand, as President Lutgen just said a moment ago, when a political party stigmatizes with its speeches, its attitudes, its behaviors, a part of the population – the Walloons not to mention them, do not speak of the Brusselsites, they do not exist, they simply have to relate either to Flanders or to Wallonia – I say that this stigmatizing speech is racist in the general sense of expression. Then, Prime Minister, you answered the questions you were asked by talking about Mr. Maes, talking about Mrs. Maes, talking about the elected members of the Volksunia. But that's not the problem at all. No one's questioning Mr. Maes. Mr Maes had his ideas, Mr Maes still has his ideas, that's his right, but I don't share those ideas. The problem is not here. The problem is not Mr Maes, the problem is Mr Franken! You didn't even mention his name! You answer completely next to the subject, allow me this formula a little quick.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u257	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the cdH and the PS, since this morning 10 am 00, you have been completely idle with Mr Francken's evening activities or the content of Saturday evenings, although this is entirely his personal life. Mr Francken has been a hard-working Member of Parliament for four years, and perhaps nobody here will dispute that. He succeeded in getting the law on family reunification adopted by consensus with parties that are now part of the majority and not with parties that are now in the opposition, even though the cdH was involved. My next question is not addressed individually, but is addressed to the entire CDH and PS and reads as follows: can I assume, since you have been talking about these issues all day long, that you fully agree with what is in the government agreement on asylum and migration? This is an inquisitive debate. This is a substantive discussion among adult representatives of the people, or at least one can assume it. However, for almost ten hours we were not allowed to hear any opposition to the substance of asylum and migration policy. I haven't been sleeping and the opposition may choose her words a little better. We have not heard any substantive discussion on asylum and migration for ten hours. I therefore call on you to focus on the substantive part of asylum and migration from tomorrow rather than on Mr Francken's person.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u258	Mr President, Prime Minister, as we can see, the debate on cooperation has poisoned Belgian life together since the end of the Second World War. He comes back to the front of the stage right before your government's installation, more specifically between oath benefits and the vote of confidence. It's not about blaming you for preferring N-VA to PS. It is not a question of blaming you for hiding the socio-economic behind the security. This is not a left/right debate or bitterness. This is not a Flemish/Wallon debate. This is not even a debate about the past! This is not a trial of intentions. This is not an attempt to ruin your installation. It is about democracy and it is about our public freedoms! That is why a question had to be asked, and when we are still in need of a preliminary ruling, and that is what Mrs Laurette Onkelinx did yesterday. Prime Minister, the N-VA is a party that has many democrats in it, but also some elements that are not democrats. You have chosen to entrust to this party almost all the functions of regal, with the exception of Justice entrusted to another party. Your two ministers who have been sworn in, have not yet received confidence, have spoken or have had attitudes that can be perceived – I weigh my words – as ambiguous towards democracy. The responsibilities that you have assigned to them coupled with their attitudes require a clear clarification on your part. (...): You had her...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u259	No, of course not! And I'm going to come to what I'm asking you. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u260	Mr Jambon told us about the collaboration: "It is a mistake of the Flemish movement." What mistake? I'll come back. "They had their reasons." "I wasn't there." What will he tell us in case of a rare but always possible blunder of the law enforcement forces tomorrow? Will he tell us, "I wasn't there"? Will he tell us, "They had their reasons"? [[Brouhahaha]] [[.]] Mr President, I wish to conclude!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u261	Mr Demeyer, with all due respect, what you say is not new. Clarification has been given!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u262	Let me finish my reasoning! And I'm asking questions. Is he not afraid of incidents? Is he not afraid to falsely justify disproportionate reactions? To Mr. Franken, as Mr. Delperée said, I would say that the problem is not with a 90-year-old man. He is a 36-year-old man who asks, receives, accepts responsibility for important and delicate charges and who, by his behaviour, sows and sows the disorder in the eyes of Belgium as a whole. Prime Minister, can you assure us that tomorrow Mr. Franken will not be at the centre of a network within the Kingdom's security services dedicated to the implementation of his own programme?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u263	That doesn't make any sense!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u264	Prime Minister, your two ministers are talking about mistakes about collaboration. They did not mean that this was a simple tactical or strategic mistake of the Flemish movement. I would like them to assure us personally that they regard this as a fault and a crime against humanity. This clarification is necessary to reassure Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u265	Clarification has been given!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u266	It is necessary to reassure professionals, to reassure the public about the democratic character of your government and your future action. If you don't, you'll drag it around like a ball by marking from the first hour until the end of the legislature your action and everything you can say and do. This, Prime Minister, is my request and I am waiting for the reaction!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u267	Colleagues, this is obstruction. I propose that this debate be closed. I do not see very well what news can be brought after the Prime Minister's statement. Mr Demeyer, with all due respect, you have said nothing new. I would like the debate to bring something to bear.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u268	Mr President, I listened carefully to the Prime Minister's answer. First of all, from a socio-economic point of view, Prime Minister, your response was more than partial. Some speakers spoke at length to explain, in particular, the unfairness of the effort required of workers and pensioners on the one hand, and the annuitants on the other. I have not heard an answer to their questions. Then you gave your answer to the popular emotion generated by Mr Jambon's remarks and Mr Francken's attitude and comments. In your answer, you indicated your personal conviction. Know that I have no doubt about your personal convictions: for me, this is not a new element. Nevertheless, I would have liked you to be able to condemn the words and attitudes, and then ask your ministers for explanations and retractions. You didn't. Mr Jambon and Mr Franken can be happy: you protect them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u269	Mr President, I am not simply expressing personal conviction, I am speaking on behalf of a government. That's what I did!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u270	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is my second term as a Member of Parliament. I think you all know me as someone who has worked on the substance over the past few years. I intend to do that again with dossiers, legislative proposals and draft laws. Today, I have heard many intentional processes towards members of our political party and by extension towards our entire party. You don't even know me. You know me from here in the Chamber, from my parliamentary work, and that is how you should know me. Yet all sorts of things are being taken out of context, purely because of political recovery. Mr President, I feel touched to the depths of my soul. To those of you who make such intentions, I would like to say that they do not know who I am. But I'll tell you who I am. I'm the granddaughter of a Waal and I'm proud of that. My grandfather fought as a soldier and underwent five years of prison of war. Do I have to go through all these statements right now, and do my family need to hear them all? We are all told about the same reading with things and facts from history. That is totally incorrect and incorrect. Things are getting out of context. That's why I'm telling you who I am. And I'm proud of my lineage. I'm proud of what my family has done. Also, I'm proud of the work I deliver here. I'm trying to work on a project. If I thought that our group was in any way undemocratic or racist, or what other swearing words you were going to use, do you think I would still be here? Then I'd take credit for myself and leave. I don't take those statements, I don't accept them. All kinds of things are taken out of context, purely because of political recovery, no more or no less. You are wronging the truth with this. I ask you to debate the content, because that is what we are here for, and that is what we have been elected for. For God's sake, content please!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip009x.u271	Ladies and gentlemen, for technical reasons too, we must now end the sitting. I propose that we resume work at 8.45 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Wednesday 15 October at 8:45 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 15 October, at 8.45 p.m.
