ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u1	Colleagues, we'll start the session. My colleague Bracke and I received on Monday a request from Mrs Matz, who cannot be present at the beginning of the sitting, concerning the hearing of Elias. I give the floor to Mr Brotcorne.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u2	Thank you, Madam President. There is indeed a request from our group to hold a further hearing of the representatives of Elias in view of the fact that developments have taken place in relation to the first elements which have been brought to the attention of parliamentarians, ministers and the public. Therefore, it seems to me that, in the near future, it would be useful to proceed with this hearing to see exactly what the changes envisaged by Elia are about.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u3	Mr Calvo has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u4	Madam President, I have a number of points, including the procedure. I might as well start with Mr Brotcorne's question from cdH. Our group has no prior problem with Elijah's presence. However, I think that we should put the question right in this matter and that we should only be concerned about it. The fact that Mrs Fonck and Mr Wathelet's party say today that Elijah should be here is yet another proof of the chaos in the file. That is the signal from a government party in current cases that after being obliged to communicate with each other through the press, Elijah has to fight and create chaos over chaos, he has to recover in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u5	Mr Calvo, we are not in the debate. We are in the requests for hearings with an agenda. Tell me if you have any requests for hearings or requests for this afternoon's agenda. Thank you. The debate will take place after that, and you know that. The word is free.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u6	So we have no problem with the procedural question, but it would be good to put it right. Furthermore, Elia has recently made a new report available to the Minister and the Secretary of State. It would be good if we could hold the debate with that information in our hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u7	Mr Calvo, the report has just been handed over to us by the Secretary of State. It is currently being copied and will be distributed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u8	Perfect. That is the second question, which has been resolved. With the third question, I agree with Mr Nollet's question at the last part-session, namely to invite Electrabel, the operator of the nuclear power stations, who fails to answer the problems and the uncertainty. I could refer explicitly to the report, but I do not think that is necessary. The question was asked and there seemed to be support for it at the time. I want to take the question back. As an operator, Electrabel has a great responsibility, so it is clear that the representatives will also come to Parliament. So we want to take that question up again in this round.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u9	Mr President, I have no problem with Mr Brotcorne's proposal to hear Elijah too. But I had heard him suggest to hear Elijah's people first. It cannot be the intention to postpone this afternoon's sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u10	Madam President, of course we do not object to the hearing of those responsible for Electrabel. However, it would also be interesting to hear from FEBEG and CREG officials.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Degroote referred to, there is no question of changing the agenda this afternoon. Moreover, pursuant to Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure, the presidents do not have that power. I take note of the request to hear the representatives of Elias, Electrabel, FEBEG and CREG. Do all members approve these hearings? [[Sentiment]] Since we all agree, we are going to organize a rather tight agenda. At the end of the session, we will submit a proposal for an agenda. First of all, we will give the floor to Mr Michel Foret, governor of the province of Liège, and to Mrs Cathy Berx, governor of the province of Antwerp, in agreement with the ministers present.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u12	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Minister and the Secretary of State were asked here to explain and they asked us to explain to the committee from our point of view as well, which of course we would like to do. For the sake of clarity, Mr Lode De Witte, the Chairman of the Conference of Governors and also of the Flemish College of Governors, would normally have spoken, but he is prevented. And so I have the honor and the pleasure of coming here to speak on behalf of all the Flemish governors. The story I will be presenting in a moment is, of course, prepared with the input, suggestions and proposals of all Flemish fellow governors, and I can imagine that the story of the French-speaking governors is also in line with that. My explanation is built around the following questions. Firstly, what information have we already received in relation to the switch-off plan and all that has to do with the energy shortage? Secondly, what have we done ourselves at the level of the governors? Thirdly, how do we proceed? Fourthly, what information and what decisions are still missing and do we still need if we are to be able to build up the emergency and intervention plans, together with the local authorities, in a good way? Firstly, what information have we already received? As you all know, you have read this in the press, that on 3 September we devoted the full meeting of the Conference of Governors to the problems of a possible energy shortage and the exit plan. At that time, the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State, Elia and the Crisis Centre of the Government informed us very comprehensively, very well and very well documented. The information they had was then communicated to the governors. It was not just a communication of information; no, there was also an open discussion, questions could also be asked and a number of problems raised. What specific information is this about? Firstly, the organisation of the switch-off plan, secondly, the procedures, thirdly, the classification of municipalities or sub-municipalities into discs which may be eligible for closure and, fourthly, the maps containing the distribution booths which would then be switched off. These cabins were interesting in themselves, but we did not yet know what specific areas were involved, which areas are fed by the cabins which are then switched off. In the meantime, we have also received the list of streets included in the circuit plan from Eandis and Infrax. It is also this information, which we need both at provincial and municipal level, in order to properly prepare the special emergency and intervention plans for energy scarcity and decommissioning. What have we done by now? In the first instance, all information was collected and summarised and collected in the best possible way. We have also taken various initiatives, at least in the Flemish provinces, to inform the municipalities in question, so that the municipalities can also start the necessary preparations. How did we do that? Firstly, we have sent the municipalities a number of e-mails. This has already happened for Antwerp in early July 2014. At that time, the design of the switch-off plan was already known. However, it was not yet final, as we have also indicated, by pointing out that it was the provisional exit plan. In this way a number of municipalities could start, which a number of mayors have done in a good way. The information is also provided to local officials for emergency planning as well as to those responsible for Discipline 5, which is the discipline responsible for communication and information. Then we also included this information on the OSR security site, which is the site of Operation Rapid Rescue, with which most provinces, not only in Flanders but also in Wallonia, work. On the web site are all general emergency and intervention plans as well as all special emergency and intervention plans. The web site also contains the log, which is opened in case of a possible crisis. Information meetings for the mayors were also organised. This had already happened in Limburg at the end of August 2014 and there was also a new meeting on 9 September 2014. In West Flanders there was also a meeting on 9 September 2014 and in Antwerp on 10 September 2014. An information meeting will be held in East Flanders on 6 October 2014 and in Flemish Brabant on 17 October 2014. However, the municipalities in the province of Antwerp have also been asked to carry out a risk and impact analysis for their territory, based on the national impact analysis, as well as prepared by the Federal Crisis Centre. Oost-Vlaanderen also consulted with an extensive working group, consisting of the disciplines and also of various other services, especially Flemish ones, with a view to drawing up such an impact analysis. I will come back to that often. It concerns watercourse managers, Aquafin, Infrabel as well as Roads and Traffic. A further point was also raised during these consultations, which will of course be followed up and which has already been partly done. In consultation with the Crisis Centre, the provinces will further prepare the procedures and the measures to be taken during a possible announcement of the exit plan. Following consultations are scheduled for 23 September 2014. Specifically for the province of Antwerp, the federal health inspector has developed his own risk analysis with the various health institutions, as well as a proposal for a solution. For example, there is often a point: what about people who depend on a ventilator? Of course, they need electricity. Same applies to people on dialysis. That is something that needs to be taken into account. Well, those people will be able to go to a hospital for day hospitalization. He also informed the hospitals and the general practitioners. The general practitioners have also been asked to provide an overview of the patients who may be in difficulty during the period of the shutdown. That information was also delivered to the FPS Health Department. How do we proceed? All services Emergency planning in the provinces of course do everything to support the local authorities as much as possible. Antwerp has 70 municipalities, but this applies to all municipalities in Flanders. For example, Antwerp is working on a provincial special prevention plan and a Discipline 5 plan for communication and information. We are also preparing a canvas for a municipal special emergency and intervention plan. Everything is being prepared so that the municipalities only have to complete these plans and cut them to their own size. We have set up working groups for this purpose. The officials of the Emergency Planning Service will meet again on 19 September. The aim is to explain the canvas to local authorities and municipal officials on 14 October. The municipalities are therefore asked to submit their special emergency and intervention plans to the Governor for approval by 15 December at the latest. This is also the way we work in West Flanders. Flemish Brabant is also working out a provincial special emergency and intervention plan. There they work per disk: disk 6, disc 5, disc 4. East Flanders is also working on a provincial special emergency and intervention plan and has made a roadmap available to the municipalities. Limburg is also working on such a provincial script and Nuhma has made a quick scan of the impact. The issue is now being discussed further at various meetings of the provincial security cells. There is also consultation with the Flemish public services, as the regions are still largely involved. There is also an explanation of the disciplines. In the other provinces, similar work is being done in similar consultation meetings. The municipalities of course also took part in the meetings of their municipal security cells. At Flemish level, the problem of watercourses will be discussed at a meeting of the CIW, the Commission on Integral Water Policy. It is about floods, the question of what to do with waterways and sea canals, shipping and so on. All managers of the waterways and watercourses are represented in the CIW, as well as among others Aquafin. This is also being further prepared and put on the verge of the government's Federal Crisis Centre's consultation meetings with the provincial services Emergency planning of the governors. We need a lot of information to prepare the planning. Information is still lacking at the moment. For example, we lack concrete information on the measures to be taken. It concerns both sensitising measures from one week to one day before the shutdown and measures on the day of the shutdown itself. With regard to preventive measures, i.e. to avoid a switch-off, it concerns in particular a general switch-off of public lighting, the deafening of all lighting that is not functional, such as in window windows, and the switch-off of all equipment that consumes energy, but which is not functional or absolutely essential for comfort and safety. For example, the ban on Christmas lighting is included. The FPS Economy is asked to clarify this. All Flemish governors also focus on a general campaign to sensitise the population, institutions and businesses to consume less energy or to maximise energy consumption and to avoid certain energy consumption during the peak moments. This can and must of course be supported at local level, for example by publications in a municipal leaflet or a municipal info magazine. In order to be able to draw up an effective contingency plan and prepare for the day of shutdown, it is crucial that uniform measures are taken for sectors that are involved throughout the country, such as rail traffic or food safety. For most of these measures, a national decision is really necessary, because these measures must be the same for the whole country. Food safety opinions can't differ in the north or in the south of our country, right? The same information must be given in Antwerp and Liège. Can food stored in a non-cooling refrigerator for four hours be consumed safely or not, which food may be used and which food may not? It is not possible to eat certain food in Liège and not in Antwerp. If food is unsafe after a certain period of insufficient cooling, this applies to the whole country. Same for train traffic. It was discussed in detail on 3 September. It can't be that one train does drive through a switched-off zone and another doesn't. It is also very important for schools and after-school care to make clear agreements and to communicate in advance in consultation with the Communities and the Regions. It is advisable, for example, to have schools shut down in detachable areas at 4 p.m. so that the children can leave before dark so that they can be taken home. Or should we just provide for the reception of pupils, in schools that are not switched off, up to 20 hours, when there is energy again, so that there is clustered energy consumption in certain areas? Those are all outstanding questions. In any case, we believe that there is a need for more and more intensive consultation and for good agreements to be made on measures with the Communities and the Regions. They are responsible for education, public transport, mobility and so on. For example, the FPS Public Health also makes best agreements with the Agency for Health and Care for measures concerning the various care institutions. This is not only about hospitals, for which the Public Health Office is responsible, but also about institutions for people with disabilities, children's cribs and so on. In addition, also between certain Flemish services, this also applies to the Walloon services, which have to be agreed on matters for which they are competent. For example, the Roads and Traffic Agency will have to make agreements with the Waterways and Sea Channels Agency, which will then have to be decided at Flemish level in consultation with the federal government on whether or not to open bridges. I can imagine that inland waterway traffic would be chosen to open up all the bridges so that the boats could sail quickly, but for smooth traffic it is equally important that the bridges remain closed. If not, emergency services will not be able to move easily from one side to another and a barrier of waterways will be created. I think it is crucial that the federal government, together with the regional governments, makes clear agreements on what is the priority: rapid shipping or smooth traffic, including for emergency services. The same applies, of course, to rail traffic. When the energy fails, all the barriers automatically close and all the considerations are closed. If the train is shut down, we will lose double. Train traffic is shut down and all barriers and considerations are closed. Considerations cannot then be used by the emergency services. Depending on the choice made, if there is no train traffic, it is of the utmost importance that the considerations remain open. These large axes can then at least be used for smooth traffic and smooth mobility and passage for emergency services. What we are missing, too, but I understand that it will come at the end of this week. You know that the drives are switched off, but that a number of priority users will be recharged 15 minutes after the shutdown. We do not yet know which institutions are or are not included in the list of priority users. Is that a nominating list? Is there any way to change that list? If yes, by what procedure and at what level? Who runs the list? We must also strive to ensure uniform communication to the public on preventive measures. This requires a good FAQ list and good templates, drawn up by the FPS Economy and the Crisis Centre and distributed by the Länder, provinces and municipalities. What is also striking is that we have so far been paying a lot of attention to and investing in a scenario, especially a one-time cut-off between 17:00 and 20:00. However, other scenarios are also possible. Let's hope they never happen, but what about a repeat of the shutdown plan, several days in a row? Or an unexpected power outage? Or what about the impact on areas other than those in the switched-off zones? What about the reassignment? How will it happen? Will it happen step by step? Which cabins, if any, first and in what way? What information do you give to the people? If everyone simultaneously turns on all the devices at the same time, there may be a new shortage. Finally, here's what I'm gonna say. Next time you will hear Elijah and the others involved. It is vital that all those responsible for the energy sector, both Elia and the distribution system operators, assume their responsibilities. They must do everything in their power to avoid a switch-off. We hope and expect that they will also be there at the time of a crisis, that they will be effectively present in the various centres of crisis and that they will also be able to communicate to the public about the measures to be taken or the problems that may arise. Finally, I would like to make one final point. I do not know what it is like in the other provinces, but in Antwerp, a number of mayors have called for boycotts in consultation with the mayors. They have said that they do not regard it as their responsibility, that it is the responsibility of energy producers, suppliers, distribution system operators and Elia to provide the necessary power at all times. Those mayors do not regard this as their responsibility, and if there is a problem, the energy producers, suppliers, distribution system operators and Elia must solve it. I have informed the mayors through the press that it is their legal mission and responsibility, as well as those of the governors and the Minister of the Interior, to take all measures necessary and possible to prevent incidents and to manage an emergency situation in such a way as to minimise its impact on public policy, security and public health so that it can return to the normal situation as soon as possible. Under no circumstances can mayors delegate that responsibility, let alone ignore it, without compromising their own responsibility and liability. Of course, and we have stressed this, there is a very great responsibility for energy producers, suppliers and network operators, but they are not responsible for crisis management. That remains the responsibility of the government. The discussion on the possible liability and responsibility........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Most of the mayors and most of the officials in emergency planning are very dilapidated, very responsible and very professional in dealing with this problem; they are doing everything possible to prepare themselves very well and they are cooperating very well, but I would like to repeat my plea that I certainly do not respond to a call to refrain from doing so and to reject that responsibility. That really would not be a wise choice, it would not be justified and it would even be dangerous. I would like to say the following very briefly, and then I will finish. There is another list of specific questions that have all been addressed in the discussions with the mayors. First of all, there are still questions about the formatting of disks. Are those drives still customizable or not? For example, one municipality reports that it produces eight times more energy than it consumes. That is a municipality with a lot of cogeneration, biogas plants, windmills or many solar panels on the territory. It produces much more energy than it consumes and yet it is in the shutdown. That sounds strange, because she would benefit from producing just more and putting it on the grid. Why is one municipality included and the other isn't? Why is a municipality in a particular disk? What about liability? Can we ask for compensation or not? What about the damage control obligation? Anyone who knows that there is a risk of damage is obliged to limit that damage to the maximum extent possible. Will the production via solar panels and cogeneration also be eliminated? That depends on my first point. Is there going to be a call centre where citizens can ask questions? There are also questions about the impact. Is there enough pressure on the pipes to provide sufficient extinguishing water if there is an explosion, a fire or another incident somewhere? Will the firefighter have sufficient fire-fighting water? What is the impact of the shutdown on watercourse management, i.e. on drinking water and wastewater treatment? What about pumps that have to function to prevent flooding? Can they also be considered as priority customers? There are also questions about preventive measures. Can preventive measures be imposed or can only be sensitized? Are we also considering generic savings measures across the country? What about the measures during the shutdown? What measures are being taken for rail traffic, for example for signalling and barriers? What about caretakers? Can they go to hospitals? Are measures planned for the schools? Is there going to be a federal call center and can Be-Alert be deployed? So far the specific questions and the explanation because of the Flemish provinces.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u13	Thank you, Mrs Berx. Mr. Foret, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I, like my colleague Cathy Berx, have the right to speak also on behalf of my four other colleagues from the Walloon provinces to convey a common message to you. This message will not be fundamentally different from that of Mrs Berx and I will avoid you hearing a second presentation, especially since the first one was already well documented. As far as I am concerned, I will just allow myself to make a few comments. Firstly, I would like to point out that this subject concerns exactly the competence of the governors, their role, in the sense that we are used to saying that we are facilitators, that we are at the crossroads of the institutions. In a case like this, it turns out to be even more true. What I'm going to tell you will end up convincing you, after Mrs Berx's presentation. What have we tried to do on the French-speaking side of the country, after hearing from the Minister and the Secretary of State? It's about being their relay. We are agents, commissioners of the government, and first of all the federal government. The Minister of the Interior addresses us, his colleague in charge of Energy too. We transmit, we carry this message. We are not the authors, we have no responsibility in terms of electricity generation or electricity distribution. On the other hand, we have a role to play in crisis preparedness management, crisis management and post-crisis management. That is where our responsibility lies. In this context, we have all tried to spread this message, to pass it through all the media, those who used us – radio channels, TV, newspapers – but also through our own organs. We have, for most of us, our own communication sites, which we have fed extensively. A few hours after the presentation of 3 September, all the documents transmitted to us were on the communication site for all operators in the province of Liège, be it the mayors, the police areas, the fire departments, the civil protection. All rescue services received this information almost simultaneously with us. The mayors seemed, for some of them, to complain of not being documented as a matter of priority. They may not have been given priority, but they were given priority at the same time as the information we received and shortly after the ministers themselves received it. So there was really speed in information and communication. It was our outreach work. We are now carrying out this work in more depth: not only on sensitive information, which we have already talked about, and which I am going to talk to you about again; but also on what is ultimately the responsibility of each and every one of us – the citizen's duty to behave responsibly in situations like those we might know. But after all, do we have to wait for a crisis or a threat of crisis of relief to have responsible behaviors in our own consumption? I have a feeling, for my part, that I find myself a few years behind when I was Minister of the Environment and that I had to do campaigns for the water economy – which I continue to encourage. Now, here's an additional piece of evidence: responsible citizen behaviour that needs to be done. These behaviours also appear on our sites and we are working to try to ensure that the press and everyone in their position of responsibility also has this willingness to act in the same way. Beyond that, we have, of course, acted on the urgency and the major problems that arose or could arise for our fellow citizens. In Wallonia, you must know – I say this especially for Dutch speakers among you – that there is a Walloon Crisis Centre. We are all, of course, members and stakeholders in the work of the National Crisis Centre, but we also have a Walloon Crisis Centre in Wallonia. While we are clear: it is not at all the task of replacing the National Crisis Centre; it is there to help the governors, who are themselves intermediaries. The Walloon Crisis Centre is itself intermediary vis-à-vis all Walloon operators, vis-à-vis the Wallonia Public Service and therefore with each of its services. It's important. First, there are 10,000 agents working in the Walloon Service. They're already information multipliers. But also many of the infrastructure involved - the hydraulic tracks, the traffic lanes - many of the major infrastructures are infrastructure managed by the Region. So we are not making a distinction on this ground that would make governors only look after what is purely provincial. We are also trying, as far as possible, to be relays to the Region and to be together within the framework of cross-sectional coordination between the Walloon provinces. This is an undeniable facilitation aspect that I wanted to highlight. We also have an important responsibility to document the Walloon Crisis Centre. The Minister and the Secretary of State told us that they themselves had had a specific relationship with the crisis centres, so as to avoid the spread of different messages. That would indeed be the worst thing. There is already a major effort to be made to achieve good national coordination. In view of the fundamental problems we are talking about, it would be dramatic to make distinctions. This coordination between the governors exists. We have tried to prepare a specific plan for a uniform emergency and response. You know that each province is required to establish a general emergency and response plan – a learned term that refers to disaster plans, which each one keeps in memory. It was important to establish such plans that were preventive but also used to manage a crisis. The general provincial plan existed; therefore, special plans had to be put in place to take account of this issue of relief. Let us use this last term rather than blackout; you know the difference. It is necessary to remain in the scenario of the discharge instead of being in the one, critical, of the black-out. We developed these plans together. We will be able, within a month at the latest, to transmit them to all the mayors and to all our relief services, in such a way that the interventions that will be carried out in each of our provinces – all of which, of course, have their own characteristics – follow a similar pattern. Taken in isolation, we did not necessarily have these services, but by uniting ourselves we managed to produce these essential documents. It is obvious that we are not just going to distribute them; we are going to explain them and comment on them. My counterparts and I have scheduled by October 23 a provincial meeting where all the mayors will be present or, at the very least, represented. The senior officials will therefore be informed. Without waiting for these dates, right now, and in addition to what is already on our sites, I have made all the mayors of the province and all those responsible for relief services aware of their own responsibility. While some issues are the responsibility of the federal government while others are the responsibility of the Regions or the provinces, many are the responsibility of the municipalities and local operators. Together with my colleagues from the Walloon provinces, we have contacted the major sensitive operators. For example, I have contacted the four prisons in the province of Liège. I visited them and explained the subject to them. I am continuing the work in hospital institutions. We will raise awareness among the mayors who, I hope, have already begun work on nurseries, schools or nursing homes. We are also trying to educate the public and individuals about the personal problems that may arise. When talking about the major problems that can arise in hospitals, there is good reason to believe that there are generators or alternative solutions. The major problem that needs to be addressed is the individual situations of those who are under breath, those who are undergoing dialysis, and those who have a particular treatment to follow. The policy pursued is intended to be global but also differentiated. It is intended to be global because, in this type of topic, we cannot distinguish what is federal, regional, provincial or communal. One cannot even distinguish between particular and individual problems. We chose this option and the work is going well. Like every one of my colleagues, I'm being interviewed by the mayors. In particular, I was asked about responsibility. We try to respond on a case-by-case basis. Beyond the operators I have mentioned to you, there are a few others that are concerned and for which answers are already provided. These are first and foremost nuclear power plants. In principle, they have to produce their own energy, but it remains to be seen whether it is 100% true, especially when units are at a standstill. There are also Seveso companies, which cannot be stopped, as well as other major operators, in particular those responsible for inland waterways and airports. There is no one-size-fits-all answer, we need to analyze all the problems we face. In the current state of affairs, I do not feel a climate of panic and I appreciate the fact that there is a great deal of accountability that is being put in place in many cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u15	I would like to express my sincere thanks to the two governors who spoke on behalf of all their colleagues. This commission is doing its job to the best of its ability. The press reports a great deal of things, and it also happens that a wind of panic blows, as has been pointed out. It can be seen, and I thank you, that you are preparing the ground for possible relief plans. I note that you still have many questions. It seems to me that it is necessary to remind the ministers – I recall that this week we have encountered some difficulties of understanding – how important clear, concrete, transparent information is for the winter period. The governors asked the ministers questions. Colleagues, before giving them the floor, perhaps you would like to ask questions to the governors here. Later, you will have the opportunity to question Ms. Fonck and Mr. Wathelet. Let those who wish to ask questions to the governors manifest themselves! As usual, I propose that one member per party take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u16	Madam President, I have heard both from the governor of Antwerp and from the governor of Liège the call for responsibility which is being made to the mayors. As you said, a mayor is by nature responsible in a broad sense for the problems of responsibility. And the mayors do not reject this responsibility. That said, even if – and this is the case in many municipalities in the province of Liège for what I know – we have special plans for the shortage of electricity, we need to know on what basis this responsibility will be exercised. We need as soon as possible precise elements that allow us to calibrate this plan, to refine it according to a situation that is exceptional. Do you not think that October 15 is a little closer to the event and that we should try to advance this date in such a way that the mayors can make their arrangements in a precise way? Indeed, as you have said quite well, questions arise on street by street, street portion by street portion and perhaps even individual by individual with respect to specialized home care.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u17	Madam President, Mr President, I thank the two governors for their briefings. I would like to ask a few questions. Governor, it's true that you've been a little worried about us. A whole series of questions that you have raised, which are quite sensible – I am thinking in particular of the problem of the railway, the problem of red lights on regional or local roads – are important problems in the event of discharge. In my opinion, as Governor Foret said very well, it is the role of the governors to coordinate politics. If a mayor addresses himself to his own station to solve the problem, he will not have the echoes, supports and answers you might have from that point of view. I am speaking in the same way to the Minister of the Interior, who can also have more weight in this respect. In Hainaut, we will have a meeting on 29 September. It will obviously be important. But, in the meantime, we already have a multitude of questions and so far we have not received any information. In this context, it would be good to create a kind of toolbox with all the questions and echoes possible. Of course, many communes – alas, there are still some that have not – have drawn up an emergency plan. A whole series of elements of the emergency plan can be used, but there are obviously elements quite specific to the relief plan that have nothing to do with the emergency plan in a comprehensive manner. The development of a toolbox, no matter who does so, as long as it is done, would seem to me quite interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u18	Madam President, I would like to thank the governors for their explanation. We very much appreciate the fact that not only is an explanation given here, but that, in the meantime, discussions with the mayors in the various provinces have been well conducted. I have heard a lot of positive noises about information that has been made available to them. I believe, just as our party mentioned last time in committee, that communication in this area is extremely important, as well as good consultation with all those involved in the field. Many of my questions have already been answered by the explanatory statement, but there is still a question about communication. Suppose there is an effective threat and the exit plan has to come into effect. Has it been discussed and planned how the actual communication with families and businesses will then take place? I have already heard about the crisis cell, but this is mainly about internal communication between the mayors, the governors, the Home Office and the emergency officials. How, however, will businesses and families themselves be informed or informed of a possible shutdown and of the precautions they can take? Do you, as governors, also take certain measures in the context of sensitization to rational use of energy in the weeks before the switch-off plan threatens to enter into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u19	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Madam Governor, Mr Governor, I have a few very practical questions, which are mainly related to the solidarity that should be found in this dossier. Some municipalities are switched off, others are not. It is important to provide a helping hand in this respect, both in the preventive and at the time when the shutdown would take place. By "preventive," I mean this. I can imagine that the inhabitants of a municipality that is in danger of being cut off will be much more receptive to the message of being able to use energy efficiently. Residents of another congregation may not have that urgency. Is it being considered by the governors to impose a number of obligations in one way or another in the context of preventive measures? Is that the intention or is this a non-binding awareness campaign? Do we also want to go a step further in this area? Secondly, if there is a switch-off, the security services of the affected municipalities will be fully deployed. If, for example, traffic lights fail, crossroads will have to be occupied by police officers and firefighters. Will firefighters and policemen from zones or municipalities that are not disconnected join the other zones? In what way is it arranged? Are you taking control of the coordination? Is such aid compulsory or is it a friendly question for the municipalities to ask? In my opinion, I should also like to think about my own municipality, even beyond the provincial boundaries, and not in provincial areas. There's no way the county's gonna stop at the county borders. My neighboring municipality Mol is located in Antwerp and is not switched off. To what extent is there coercion in this respect? Finally, I hope that communication will be uniform for our entire country. I feel that communication at provincial level is being worked out in concrete terms. I have also heard that some are working on a canvas for the BNIP. If this were to be worked out in a different way in each province, I would argue in favour of uniformity, including in communication to the population. When local authorities are required to communicate with their people, this is cost-effective. Is that cost-benefit analysis under consideration? Is this cost at the expense of the municipalities concerned, or does solidarity play a part in this? Is there a fund or an institution that helps municipalities to bear the costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u20	Madam Governor, Mr Governor, first of all, I would like to thank you sincerely. That goes for more than just your arrival today. After all, I would hate to be in your shoes today. I had a very bored and worried feeling about the whole situation before. Now that I have heard your speech, that feeling is getting even stronger and I think even more that it must be very annoying to be governor today. I will try to put this into practice later, but obviously there is still a lot of work to be done, even though it is not a new problem at all. In a number of documents that are made available to us, I read the phrase: "since the emergence of these problems in 2014.' I would like to point out that Objective 3 and Tihange 2 have been stationary since 2012! Together, we can only conclude that there is still a great deal of work to be done and that there is a crucial, so unfortunately difficult role for the governors. I would like to thank you sincerely, I hope that we will not need all these measures and that at least it will be the last time that governors will have to worry to that extent. More specifically, Madam Governor, you said that everything must be clear at municipal level by 15 December. I understand that there is a great deal of work involved in dealing with a possible cut-off, but I think that is rather late. Maybe there's a motivation behind that timing and then I'd like to hear it, but otherwise I'd like to call for that clarity to be speeded up. The weather is quite unpredictable and the faster there is clarity, the better. Secondly, you have tried to outline how the different provinces in Flanders deal with the situation. Your colleague did that for Wallonia. I notice some convergence between the different provinces and also a canvas that several provinces use, but I am very surprised that there will nevertheless be differences between different provinces. I would like to join Mr Vanvelthoven, who has made a plea for interprovincial cooperation, as well as for unity of communication and approach. It can't be different from one province to another. Flanders is already only one handkerchief large, Belgium two handkerchiefs. The problem is very serious, so I really advocate unity of message, coordination and a similar planning and approach, whether it be the provinces of West Flanders, Namur or Limburg. My most fundamental point, Mrs Berx, is this. By the way, although I have not been able to record everything, I have counted ten crucial questions in your speech. You could have been sitting here. Is the disk layout customizable? Quid liability? What about the production of CHP and solar panels? Is there going to be a call center? Will the pressure of the pipes for extinguishing water be okay? What about the wastewater and the treatment? Are those priority points? Will sensitisation take place nationally?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u21	Mr Calvo, these questions have been asked by the governors to the Minister. Please try to be as concise as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u22	Will there be sensitisation or mandatory? What about caretakers? What about people with disabilities? What about prisons? That's 11 or 12 questions, and I haven't even written them all down yet. Mrs Berx, are these new questions or have you already raised these questions to the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State for Energy? If so, when and how are these questions formalized? I have another point on a number of proposals that have also been made by my fellow Members, because I do not think that the issue of majority opposition should play a part in this. Any stone in the river that Parliament can change must absolutely be moved. The idea of a call center was put forward, both in colleagues' offices and in the governor's office. I believe that the unity of information in this area is crucial, both to local authorities and to citizens. Every citizen has the right to know the situation. What does that mean for the Dorpstraat in Mechelen, the Stationstraat in Boom and the Sint-Jansstraat in Willebroek? That information isn't here today. It should be made available transparently. There was also a plea for a awareness campaign. It was said that the system operators should do the same. I'm worried about you then. There must be clarity in terms of awareness, in terms of directives, in terms of consumption. Is it the network manager, is it the FPS Economy, is it the county? That is not clear at the moment. I feel that various actors are at risk of taking initiatives in this area, and that is absolutely not good. Finally, Mrs Berx also raised the question of liability, damage, compensation and costs for local authorities. Who's gonna pay for that? Then I can only repeat our group's appeal. Achieving security of supply is a responsibility of the energy producers and in the second instance of the government. If there is a problem, they will have to compensate for that damage. That is also my question to the Secretary of State and the Minister for the Interior. Is the legal framework in this area already clear?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u23	Mr. President, it's a little difficult. I would rather ask my questions to both the governors, the minister and the Secretary of State. But I understand the procedure. I will therefore ask the governors a specific question. When I hear the governor of the province of Liège say that he does not feel a feeling of panic, I have some fears about this kind of statement. Of course, the panic itself is not a good counselor, but I'm afraid we're going to consider these unloading plans a little bit like a health walk and I'm afraid we're not taking the measure of what the power cut can mean in so many homes. I ask the question in practical terms: have we, for example, looked at what had been done in other countries during similar power cuts? I remember this famous power cut in California in the early 2000s, already due, moreover, to the liberalisation of the electricity market. First, what were the consequences? Have there been any casualties in terms of human lives? Have there been any serious physical damage, in addition to all economic problems and other possible damage? What has been taken as a solution in this context? I would also like to ask the governors about the precise location of the discharge. My colleague Mr Raoul Hedebouw told me that at the municipal council of Liège – the mayor of Liège is present, he can confirm – we could not give precise information, localised street by street. I understand that in the north of the country this is the case; I assume that in the south of the country we also have this list where each street is detailed in relation to the cabins. The question is whether this information is actually well available for the whole of Wallonia, and how we will inform the citizens whose streets are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u24	Thank you. I give the floor, in turn, to the two governors to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u25	First of all, I would like to bounce back on Mr. Van Hees. We do not discover the moon! If, in this area, these are the first concrete measures in Belgium, it should be noted that the problem of blackout and discharge was already known. I do not even refer to what is happening regularly in the United States. We have had two major experiences in Europe over the last 15 years: in Germany and Italy. Precisely, because we felt – and it was a good feeling, in this case – that what had happened to others could one day happen at home, my counterparts and I had taken the initiative to convene an international conference of all those so-called territorial representatives of the State: that is, for Belgium, the governors; the king's commissioners in the Netherlands; the prefects in France, etc. This congress was held in Liège from June 20 to 25. At a time when we were not measuring how fast things were going to get, we benefited from the advice and explanations of our counterparts in this area. International benchmarking is therefore very recent. The chance to do things even better was the Minister of the Interior – who, at the time, was still Secretary of State for Energy – who came to the conclusion of this conference. So he also took advantage of the work we were doing. That is the case with regard to international comparison. Then the problem was known. I would remind you that we have not waited for the last few months to act, since legislation dates back to 2012. They also led us, on instructions from the minister of the interior at the time, to make many contacts on the matter of the discharge. All the mayors were therefore contacted in 2012. I must say that not all of them have shown remarkable diligence in this matter. In the province of Liège, just over 50% of the mayors responded. Now it's different; things change. In short, the problem was known. We had already acted in 2012. What is happening now is a later phase, which we are leading throughout the country. Mr Demeyer, you asked me if you really had to wait until October 15 to know the plan. I will tell you that it is appropriate not to rush. Going too fast could indeed be assimilated to precipitation. My Walloon counterparts and I interviewed all our partners – primarily the mayors, but also the chiefs of the police areas, fire departments, civil protection, in short the major operators. We have asked each of them to give us an answer as far as they are concerned by the end of this month. You are well placed to know that this is an extremely complex inventory. Getting information from all nursing homes, community centres, etc. is a huge job. It is even more difficult to know what they have as possible remedies: do they have generators, do they benefit from solidarity, can police areas work together? It's a long-term job. It is also our responsibility. I would remind you that, in the context of police coordination, we must bring together the zone chiefs, the federal police and the local police. We are, of course, working on it! I know you're actively working in your community. As I wish to carry out this task properly throughout the province, I hope to be able to provide you with satisfactory answers by 23 October. Some of my Walloon counterparts will do it before I do. I think Denis Mathen, in Namur, starts next week. So, answers are being developed. I hope you get all the satisfaction. I think Mr Flahaux made a very good suggestion, that of creating the toolbox. I know that we are heard in the stands and I turn to the Crisis Centre because it seems to me to be the appropriate interlocutor to set up a call center and a box of knowledge. The minister, who is better informed than I am, tells me that she already exists. I don't think a call center specializing in the subject already exists. That's a suggestion to remember.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u26	I shall continue with Mrs Smaers' question. She rightly says that good communication is crucial, not only the internal communication between the mayors, the governor and the Crisis Centre, but above all the external communication to families, businesses, organisations and so on. As I said at the end, Be-Alert is being used anyway. By the way, it is a good time to call on the entire population to sign up for this instrument. A number of tests have already been carried out. A number of pilot communities have already worked with Be-Alert. That works well. Be-Alert is a good instrument, but it works better as as many people as possible give up their fixed number or preferably their mobile number, so that as many people as possible can be informed at the same time. Be-Alert can and will certainly be deployed. At the level of our province, we will also work with CIN, the Communication and Information Network. This instrument can and will also be used effectively. We are also planning good consultation with the various media, for example RTV, ATV and so on. Further planning includes that consultation with the different media, to see how they can properly disseminate the message. By the way, the VRT has already informed us that the network will be happy to cooperate. I have a lot of confidence in Be-Alert, in which much has been invested. It will certainly be of service. A very fair remark by the mayor of Lommel, Mr Vanvelthoven, was about solidarity between the municipalities. During our consultation with the local authorities, this message was given: solidarity is crucial! This must not be a matter of unbinding solidarity. We shall see how we can put a number of measures into a provincial regulation, which states what everyone must do to avoid a cut-off. It must be about compelling solidarity. At the time of the shutdown, both the federal stage of coordination and the provincial and local stage will take effect. Why is that? That is because the resources of a municipality are not sufficient to meet all the needs, with the result that the resources need to be coordinated provincially or perhaps even federally, not to mention the army and civil protection. Provincial coordination also means that when a municipality indicates that its own resources, its own police, its own fire department, are not sufficient, the fire department and police will be called upon or, where appropriate, the federal police, the army and so on. We can ask the federal level to deploy the military and civil protection. The resources of the provinces which do not exceed the provincial boundaries may be used by the governor in the framework of provincial coordination. Moreover, solidarity will also be called for in the preparation process. A municipality that will be deported cannot, of course, organise a crisis centre within its own municipal boundaries. It seems appropriate to look at a neighboring municipality that is not switched off, to house the crisis center of the town to be turned off. After all, a functioning crisis centre requires energy, electricity, to ensure communication with the Federal Crisis Centre. We have therefore placed the emphasis very much on this solidarity. It is about the use of resources, but also about, for example, reception centres. A municipality that is switched off cannot organise a reception centre on its own territory, because that would be a shelter without energy, which is not very efficient. A shelter must therefore be set up in a neighbouring municipality. It is also possible that some municipalities together or in a cluster have already developed their own safety centre and that the safety centre should be checked whether or not it is in the shutdown. Who pays for the dissemination of information? Well, I think most municipalities already have their own infosheet. The additional costs will not be very high to give the concrete information through that sheet. In addition, good internet links are made to the different web sites on which the information is included. I assume that the FPS Economy and the Crisis Centre will also ensure consistency and coherence and that they are disseminated through as many different media as possible. I consider that a task of the federal government. As governors, we may be the interpreter, the translator, the relay of that information. I'm sure you'll be fine with that alignment. I also continue to call for good consultation with the Länder, where there is also a Minister for Energy. I assume that the same alignment will certainly happen. Mr Calvo, I am impressed by your concern for the governors and the woe of the governors, but they do not have to worry. After all, we are not worried, we are not panicking. We do want to be well prepared. If you ask why we are doing this now, in 2014, I shall put it to you for a little bit of youth. I can assure you that plans were already drawn up in 1999. My Director of Emergency Planning is a very thorough and experienced man. Unfortunately, he retires on October 1st, just a little early, actually a bad time. Maybe we should ask him to stay a little longer. In any case, he knew very well that already in 1999, in the framework of the millennium bug, plans were made for the event of possible energy scarcity, a possible brownout, a shutdown or whatever. So what I'm presenting here doesn't date today. We have also asked the municipalities whether they still have those old plans, which will obviously be largely obsolete. In the meantime, new residential areas and business areas have been created, and such a much more, which requires a different approach to what was made at the time. The issue of energy shortages was also addressed in 2005 and 2012. So there have been many times before. By the way, there is a Belgian switch-off plan, but there is also a European policy in this area, and there are also European standards and efforts to be made by the various Member States of the European Union. In this respect, Elia assured us in Antwerp that the efforts that Belgium should theoretically make are rather limited in all and in comparison with other Member States, but perhaps we should not say that loudly. So there is already a long history, a lot of know-how and knowledge, but it is important that we now have to update it again before 2014-2015, because the situation is not static but dynamic and we must keep up with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u27	Mr. Calvo, the governor will finish. We must respect the order of business of this committee because there are still a lot of questions to be asked of the ministers. You told me that you no longer had a question, or even for the ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u28	December 15th is a rather late moment. I therefore understand your comment. However, it is the ultimate moment. Everyone who is ready in the past has been invited here, and we have also invited them to work out their special emergency and intervention plans in the past. That's the deadline we usually need. The winter pricks are rarely really fundamental and strong before 15 December. Elia also took into account, when assessing the risk derivatives, that the highest risk derivatives were in January and February, in particular between 5 p.m. and 8 p.m. However, the focus is on January and February. We therefore consider that the date of 15 December is reasonable. Anyone who is ready in the past, of course, we welcome. You have also rightly pointed out that it is particularly important to look beyond the boundaries of the province. We are doing this in very close consultation with the Federal Crisis Centre. So the information is generic. As has been said, a global, generic approach is needed, albeit with customisation where necessary. Not all provinces are equal. Let me give you an example. The province of Antwerp has about seventy high-threshold Seveso plants in a very high concentration. In Antwerp there is the port and the airport. There is also a cluster in the Kempen. In the province of Antwerp there is therefore a specificity, which requires a specific approach. Therefore, special emergency and intervention plans are being worked out by the provincial authorities. You also referred to my questions. I noted in my introduction that it was the questions raised by the mayors in the discussion between governors and mayors. I think it is my duty, of course, not only to discuss the issue in Antwerp, but also to discuss the issues that have already taken place in the various provinces and to pass on the questions that the local leaders have asked us. We think it is only reasonable that, at the moment when we are given the opportunity to explain this, we should pass these questions on to the committee in all transparency, as well as, of course, to the Minister and the Secretary of State. It is also our ambition to pool the information, as it is further developed, in a list of frequently asked questions, so that all mayors and anyone from anywhere can get that information. I forgot to mention that we also know that, for example, the information provided by Infrax yesterday and Eandis earlier, on 19 September 2014, if I am not mistaken, will be online for the whole country.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u29	Thank you for these specific answers. As planned, I propose that one member per party ask questions to the two ministers present, ministers who have obviously noted all the questions of our governors. We will take the questions in the usual order of the parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u30	I would like to thank all the speakers and especially the governors for their good guidance. I would also like to thank all the bodies that will ensure that it does not come to that. I hope we all agree on a case. We are anno 2014, we are a western country and we want to attract industry from abroad. It is difficult for us to see it as good publicity that we would lose electricity here. I would therefore like to thank all those who have done their utmost to avoid this problem. However, I have three reservations about the whole situation. Firstly, the situation shows that we need a clear long-term vision of energy. Since 2007, we have established an ad hoc policy in the field of energy, now a little more left-wing, rather than a little more right-wing, without being clearly thought out. That leaves his mark now. That is why I hope that the negotiators sitting around the table will demonstrate vision in their discussions and develop a long-term energy policy. Secondly, clear communication is necessary. The communication of the last few weeks raises questions for me, as with the many troubled governments. Among other things, on 22 August there was a committee meeting here, in which we asked what was going on with the exit plan. A few days before, a plan was circulated in the press, based on past situations. I don't have a problem with that. We asked here what the situation was now. We were answered on 22 August that the plan, which was now refined, was ready, but that we could not yet get it. It wouldn't be delivered to the governors until September 3rd. Personally, I have no problem with the governor getting the plan first, but if it was already available, why wasn't it given then? What turned out to be on September 3rd? The people of the FANC and Elijah came here to provide information and Elijah's people answered the same question that the plan had yet to be refined between 22 August and 3 September. That information contradicted the information we had received earlier. If, on such a crucial and sensitive subject, involving all municipalities, conflicting information is being circulated and circulated, you will understand that there are still more questions and suspicions. That is why I call for clear communication. As a blow to the head, Madam Secretary of State, we note a few days after 3 September that you are asking for adjustments to Elijah's plan. Then, of course, there are more questions, even more mistrust. The question is whether the existing plans can simply be changed. Certain municipalities are very concerned. They send letters, including to the representatives of the people. They ask that the burden be shared among all the inhabitants of the country. I received a letter about this from the municipality of Zedelgem. We have to answer that their question cannot be met in the technical field. How should they feel when they see that the exit plans can still be changed through the intervention of a Secretary of State or a Minister? I have questions about that. This brings me to my third comment on the latest changes made by the Secretary of State, apparently for Community reasons. Apparently, the power outage on the map you distributed would have been miscalculated in Wallonia. One would exceed the 5 % per subzone there and even go up to 8.4 % in certain zones. For this purpose, there are certain opinions which state that more cabins are switched off in Wallonia than in Flanders, based on the number of cabins. One forgets to mention that a cabin depends on the population density. The closer the population, as is the case in Flanders, the fewer cabins are needed. The more extensive an area and the population, the more cabins are needed. It is therefore normal for more cabins to be switched off in Wallonia. One cannot therefore use that as an argument to say that the homework that Elijah has already done must be changed. Elia's note, which was written only in French, states that it is simply a changed situation, that nothing has been done illegally or irregularly, that one simply puts forward another parameter. If you look at the map, 4 percent of the cabins in the northwest zone can easily control 8 percent of the people, such as 8 percent of the cabins in Wallonia, in the southwest zone. That's perfectly possible. We believe that the company Elia has done his homework correctly. That was, according to you, complete on August 22nd, but apparently not anymore. In any case, Elia relies on technical parameters, on objective parameters such as peak power and switching capabilities. Elijah is not based on Belgium's institutional map, and that is the point. By basing itself on Belgium's institutional map, the work has to be redone. Madam Secretary of State, if I follow your vision, it means that Elijah has done his job badly. According to you, Elijah made a capital mistake in Wallonia: by not correctly estimating that it is 8.4 % instead of 5 %, there is a miscalculation of just under 50 %. However, as a network manager, Elia is legally responsible for the implementation of the relevant legislation. Elia is professional, she has the know-how, she bases herself on the 2005 exit plans approved by the then minister and by the CREG; she bases herself on the 2005 ministerial decision and yet you say very nicely that Elijah is wrong. Madam Secretary of State, I have huge questions here. I do not think it is appropriate that there should be political intervention in this way in the work done by Elijah. That is simply a political intervention, because something fits into the stall or does not fit into the stall and now certain changes need to be made. That doesn't create trust, you can't. If you were CEO of a large company, for example Fluxys, then you would not like politics to surround you in such a way. There is therefore a great deal to be said on the deontological level. In short, as is the case with the amended plan, I can only decide the following. In Wallonia there will now be a class A and a category B working in each subzone. So, each time a subzone is eliminated in Flanders, the corresponding zone in Wallonia will be eliminated only half of it. Madam Secretary of State, to conclude, you are putting a Fleming twice as much in the dark as a Waal.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u31	Dear Presidents, the original dossier referred to a number of worrying situations. Madam Secretary of State, on the basis of external information, you interviewed Elia. Can you let us know what his answer was? A document was sent to us. But I'd like to know how you feel. Earlier, I asked Mrs and Mr.Governors about the final situation on 15 October. To date, can you confirm that the basic data provided by Elia will no longer be modified? I would also like to ask you about your contacts with the regional authorities. Indeed, everyone knows that the CREG and the GRD are under the supervision of the Regions. What's the status of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u32	Mr President, I am here as a Member of Parliament, but also as mayor of a city centre. In that sense, it is interesting to check what is being said here also against reality. I can tell you that the explanatory statement in our province, given on 8 September, was good and clear. Of course, there was a great deal of interest. I noticed most of all that the mayors all believe in the power of sensitization, they believe that we can encourage people to consume less energy. If we can convince people to consume 5% less energy in reality, we would never have to switch to a switch-off. In the political debate, I note that attention to this sensitization has so far remained inadequate. That doesn't mean the governors. So I didn't ask the governors any questions. However, I am looking at the two political leaders, Madam Secretary of State and Minister. It is important to cooperate now with local authorities, provinces and certainly with the Regions and the Communities and with the federal government. Madam Secretary of State, on 28 August the Flemish Government sent you a letter asking you to sit together urgently to deal with sensitization and communication and offer solutions. In the meantime, we are more than two weeks further on in this urgent dossier, but no response has yet been received, let alone an answer from the federal government to that question. Ladies and gentlemen, as the governor has already pointed out, there must be a national media campaign. That national media campaign should start early enough and should encourage our citizens to use less energy. My question to both excellences is: what about it? Will you set up an energy conference and find a solution? My second remark is about the plan itself. During the presentation in our province, Elijah pointed out that certain cities and municipalities are being cut off and others are not at all. For many mayors, the classic question arises as to why they can be switched off and not another municipality. Elijah's answer is that it has drawn up an objective and technical plan and that we have to accept it as mayors. The mayors involved accepted that after much discussion and against their custom. That happened on Monday night, September 8th. A few days later, the newspaper reported that Elijah changed the proposed plan for the sake of a certain region in our country, as a colleague has just outlined. I have questions about that. Either in the beginning Elijah made mistakes in the plan and the plan was guided by the wisdom of the Secretary of State; or the plan was correct, but it was repressed by Elijah under political pressure. Madam Secretary of State, I would have liked an answer to that. I have another question about that plan, and that question isn't even about my own city. I even cross the county line and I come out in the city of Ghent. The mayor and the Ghent College have rightly noted that this very important city in Flanders is very badly affected in the event of a shutdown. Firstly, there is the problem of the port company, where it is literally stated that the radar system will no longer be able to operate if there is a switch-off. The port of Ghent will then lie flat. Secondly, all the suppliers of the large-scale industry, read Volvo Cars and others, will fall flat. Thirdly, the east side of the R4 will be completely eliminated. These are three key infrastructure axes, which are important for Ghent. The question is: what will you do about it? This is one of the most important cities in our country, which is being hit in an unreasonable manner, especially when compared to similar large cities in the north and south of the country. This is not a Community debate. It seems to us that it is the best solution to adapt the list of priority companies by 2014-2015 to take into account the reality in Ghent. For the years after, of course, a fundamentally different plan must be devised that also takes into account decentralised energy consumption and decentralised energy production. My final question concerns the priority list. It was said that by 15 September, so yesterday, we would know which companies and institutions are on the priority list. Those companies and institutions would be re-enabled after 15 minutes, as we have been told. There appears to be confusion about this. It seems that we should not be under too much illusions about that 10%. It is reported that 5% is already being used by distribution system operators to keep the network active. The scope for priority companies and institutions would therefore be limited to only 5%. If we take into account the police, the fire department, the service 100 and the hospitals, then I think that the room for other companies and institutions is very limited. The governor also referred to the problem of water treatment. Aquafin points out that if we do not find a solution to the problem of water treatment, and in particular to the critical points in Ostend and other places, certain regions of the country are at risk of being flooded with dirty water. I have one final question on the priority list, Madam Secretary of State and Minister. To be honest, ladies and gentlemen, there has been far too little talk about this today. Too little attention is paid to the problems of businesses. Of course, we must show solidarity with our citizens, but experience has shown that they are getting away with it. Governor, you referred to Germany, Italy. Experience has shown that the citizens "set their plan" for 80%. That's what we said in our home, in our province. However, it is likely to become much more dramatic for companies. I am not just talking about Seveso companies, which have already been mentioned. I am talking about SMEs that, for example, run fully continuous. Think of farms, such as chicken farms. If the electricity goes out for three hours, I don't know how those bugs will survive. Think of the catering industry, caterers and so on. You have pointed out that the strict requirements of the BFSA in the field of food safety will no longer be met. How do we solve that for these companies? Questionnaires were sent by UNIZO and Voka. With all sympathy, but no answer has yet come to those many punctual questions. The companies ask for clarity and they especially ask for one contact with the government. Today they are sent from the crisis cell to the FPS Economy, from the FOD to the grid operators, from the grid operators to Synergrid, from Synergrid to the cabinet and from the cabinet to the mayors. Those people are getting crazy about it and the companies are not able to prepare for it. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to call for a single point of contact. Not just a call centre for the residents, but certainly for the companies, so that their questions can be answered as soon as possible. Dank u.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, before I ask my questions, I would like to make a point: I find it deplorable that our country, which was a little over a century ago the third industrial power in the world, is now in need of electricity. What a deplorable image we will give of ourselves abroad! How, in this context, can we attract investors when we need to reindustrialize the country, when we need to create jobs? It will be one of the biggest challenges facing the government to upgrade our energy and electricity production. We are talking about relief, but I think that we have gone on a journey to disaster. Indeed, we must also talk about blackout. The risk of blackout is present in two ways. As a first step, all the appliances, all the factories, the houses will get back into operation after the two or three hours of unloading. It'll give you a blackout. The second possibility is that people will not stay at home, since in the same municipality, one street or one village will be relieved and the other will not be. This will of course greatly increase consumption in this other slice and therefore trigger a blackout. Unloading plans and plans can be considered to counter unloading, but also what needs to be done in case of blackout. If companies are notified one day in advance, when they have a manufacturing cycle of more than 24 hours, it will be too late and the manufacturing cycle will already be started. What will be the case with compensation for businesses and SMEs in the event of discharge, if the information comes too late?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u34	Madam Secretary of State, we were somewhat surprised after 8 September 2014 when you announced that the exit plan had to be changed because of an imbalance in Wallonia. In this respect, we have the same question as a number of other Members, who have already asked the question. Was there a proper exit plan in the past, following the adoption of the Ministerial Decision of 3 June 2005? Was the exit plan justified and adequate then? In the meantime, what has changed so strongly that the switch-off plan needs to be adapted? We would also like to ask whether the adjustment of the switch-off plan will not create new imbalances. For example, will there be a reason for noticing a new imbalance in the near future, which means that the switch-off plan will have to be readjusted? That's why I liked to get a little more explanation and explanation. As a final element, I would like to make a call. It is not really an opportunity, but some Members have pointed out that we must take advantage of this moment to have the federal government, with all the other competent authorities, such as the Regions, consider to what extent cooperation on more rational energy use can be speeded up in the coming weeks. Unfortunately, we must have an opportunity or opportunity to achieve more rational energy use across the country more quickly in the field of energy policy. In this respect, I would like to ask whether more action is already being taken in the meantime in the area of sensitisation and rational use of energy. How will this be addressed with the Regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u35	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank both governors for the explanations they have given and for the willingness to come here and answer our questions. However, the explanation has once again given rise to many questions. I was surprised you wanted to ask some of the mayors' questions here, too. It would be expected that the mayors would receive a direct and immediate response from the governors. I understand that this is a work in progress and that a number of things need to be looked at further. All this shows, above all, that there are a lot of questions and that everyone, from managers to citizens, is concerned about the exit plan. Above all, what we must avoid is competition, competition between regions, provinces, cities and municipalities. In the event of a calamity, solidarity must play. I therefore consider it totally inappropriate for a colleague to want to communitize the matter here. As a Gentenaar I could also say that Ghent is put twice as much in the dark as Antwerp, which I do not do at all. However, there are a number of things that need to be said. If we do not want to compete with each other, if we really want to play on solidarity at such moments, I think we should take three things into account. Firstly, and many of my fellow Members have already pointed this out, we must use all possible means to avoid the exit plan. I think everyone agrees on that. Secondly, if a switch-off plan is to come into effect in the event of extreme need, the criteria on which the switch-off plan is based must be clearly communicated. Thirdly, there must be clear and open communication. I'd like to talk about those criteria first. What Mr Van Quickenborne said is correct. A lot of mayors point to that, too. One sometimes does not understand why one is switched off and the other is not switched off. There may be very good reasons for this, but they are not known. It is precisely because they are not known that certain conclusions are drawn, conclusions that must be avoided. This is not about the fact that one is not switched off and the other is not. The point is that we may have a problem; let us solve that problem. Will the criteria on which the exit plan is based be communicated to me clearly by the ministers? I'd like to come back to the city of Ghent. The port area lies entirely in the first zone that could possibly be shut down. There are six Seveso plants in the port area. When I look at the criteria for urban areas, industrial areas, hospitals, etc. contained in the ministerial decision, the whole port area responds to them. There are six Seveso plants, a hospital, five RVTs and about 70 600 inhabitants. In doing so, we meet the criteria for priority customers. I do not want to say that Ghent should stay outside, but above all I want to say that we need to know the criteria clearly. How can we explain to the inhabitants and managers why they are being eliminated and not others, if they do not have those criteria? Madam Secretary of State, it is a great pity that a plan which is first announced is changed a few days later, because one of the criteria in the ministerial decision was apparently overlooked. That's very unfortunate. That brings me to my second question on communication. In this respect, the ball has already been missed. Clear communication is absolutely necessary. That has already been said by everyone. There was a lack of clarity about this. I hope that such situations will be avoided in the future and that we can make it clear to everyone why and why not. The two governors and many colleagues have already referred to communication. Something's wrong with communication. We've done a small survey of several mayors. I'm going over the county line, Mr. Van Quickenborne. In Harelbeke today the mayor still does not know which areas will be eliminated and which areas will not be eliminated. That's because he's in an area between two distribution networks. Of course you can't. All this gives rise to speculation and questions. This communication clearly needs to be improved. I also believe, like Mr Vanvelthoven, that cooperation between the various authorities should be unambiguous. There can't be another plan in Limburg compared to Antwerp or Liège. It is also not possible for communication to be very diffuse, and it is certainly not possible for municipalities to communicate differently to their citizens because there is no general framework, as is currently the case in the absence of better communication. I would therefore ask both ministers, in cooperation with the Regions, with the provinces and with the distribution system operators, to draw up such a general framework and to go a little further. To Mr Vanvelthoven's question as to whether municipalities are obliged to cooperate, the governor replied that a provincial plan would be drawn up for this purpose. However, that makes me suspect that it may be different in Antwerp, Liège and East Flanders. That too must be imposed and coordinated from the federal government. I have also noticed that there is a real error in the communication between the FPS Economy, the distribution system operators, the provinces and the municipalities. One sends the mayors from one to another, without giving a clear answer and without taking responsibility. I therefore call on both excellences to continue to coordinate on this issue. Finally, there is awareness. There is also a need for coordination in this area. We have two different areas of competence here: energy efficiency, for which the Regions are competent, and security of supply, for which the federal government is competent. Let us draw up a clear awareness-raising plan that can be applied by any municipality and city. This is not so difficult for large cities, the big cities are already working on this and they have the people, sometimes with special officials. Smaller cities also do so, but sometimes they do not have the means to carry out these major awareness campaigns today. Let us communicate clearly so that the shutdown is not necessary. In this respect, there is a lack of coordination: one municipality is doing something and another municipality is doing something else. We would do much better with a coordinated plan from the federal government, in cooperation with all the other governments. Madam Governor, I am very pleased that Be-Alert will be called in. There were indeed some questions about this, as not everyone is participating in that special plan and it is therefore a missed opportunity if one does not join. This must be done further. Finally, you will be surprised, but I agree with Mr Degroote when he talks about energy policy. We must indeed pursue a clear energy policy aimed at the future. Well, that clarity was certainly there: in 2003 there was a very clear plan, the core exit. In 2007, that plan was reduced and we weren't in the government at the time. That plan was re-implemented in 2012. I call upon Mr Degroote's party. The mayors who say that the cause of the problems is not with them today, but with the producers, are absolutely right. I therefore assume that Mr De Groote's party will be absolutely opposed to keeping the nuclear power stations open. The reason for the problem, which is now emerging, is the nuclear power stations, which cannot meet our energy requirements, as it was planned to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u36	Mr President, I think everyone here is aware that we are not talking about details. These are extremely important issues and issues that are legitimately of concern to both citizens, businesses and communities. The governors have said this, somewhere, in their interventions and it is also part of their tasks: when we are in preparation for a crisis situation, and this is indeed a potentially crisis management situation, the communication must be clear. And what we've been through in the last few days is the opposite. I am not talking about what is given today by the governors. I'm talking about what's happened since last Monday. Let's go back a little bit. On September 3, the map was published. A great communication, a great media relay with colors in this map, with points that normally allow or should have allowed everyone to locate themselves. And then, the first criticisms come last Monday, in particular and mainly, at that time, on the question of whether the distribution between the zones has been arranged on a flat-rate or proportional basis, as foreseen by the Ministerial Decree of 2005. Critique on Monday, reply of the Secretary of State on Wednesday. Criticism cannot be retained, it is false, and on the other hand, we do not know how to change the plan – these are its terms – it would be the "boxon" if the plan were to be changed. We're here Wednesday, I'm not mistaken. And then Friday, it's the boxon. At that time, change of line, and change of plan. In a crisis, the basic rule, as the governors said, is clear communication. In 48 hours, everything was deconstructed - everything that was given, everything that was published. You certainly saw like me people cutting this map, looking at it on the internet, keeping it for them to see later where they were. This whole approach, for the French-speaking part of the country in any case, is to be discarded, since each of the areas is subdivided into the new version. This brings me to my questions to one or the other of the government officials. 1. When did you receive Elia's proposal for a plan? Is this August, specifically August 22, as has been said? Is it on 2 September, late in the evening, on the eve of your important contact with the governors? In this case, perhaps you didn't have time to carry out verifications. 2. What checks did you make or have done by your administration not to take as cash the content of the proposal that was made to you? 3. Why on Wednesday did you say that there was no problem when you were aware – a university professor had drawn attention to this point – that there is a fundamental divergence between Chapter 4 of the decree according to which the distribution must be proportional and Elias' flat-rate proposal? Madam Secretary of State, Minister, I look forward to specific answers to these questions. That said, my question goes further. Indeed, the central question that we have already dealt with for a long time is whether to respect proportionality or opt for the lump-sum allocation of effort. The answer can be found in the Ministerial Order. Proportionality must be respected, contrary to what was included in the first proposal. But I went back to the ministerial decree on which we are talking, particularly on the question of the criteria, which is fundamental, as everyone is right to stress. This is a matter of concern to me, which is why I would like to ask you a new question. On 22 August you were questioned, in committee, in particular by Members from rural areas who were concerned about the fact that these areas could be targeted as a matter of priority. Let me read an excerpt from your answer on page 28 of the transcript. I quote: "I would like to refer you to the ministerial decree of 3 June 2005. All the legal conditions that have been clearly defined are set out in it." You continue with the following: "In point 2.3.1, thirdly, which determines the way in which the discharge plan is to be put in place, the discharge at the level of rural networks is clearly shown". This is found in the Order, in Chapter 2. The fact is that the situation we have to prepare today is not in Chapter 2 but in Chapter 3. I'll explain. The Ministerial Order on Release Plans provides for two parts. A first part resumes emergency situations, for example, when lightning falls and a blackout appears. It's unpredictable and we're in Chapter 2. On the other hand, the situation of shortage, which you are preparing here with the help of the governors, is repeated in Chapter 3. The criterion for rural areas to which you refer on page 28 belongs to Chapter 2. This has nothing to do with Chapter 3. In Chapter 3, which covers foreseeable situations, there is no priority to remove rural areas from other areas. My question is therefore: beyond the revision of the plan that you have to make and which leads you to subdivide areas in Wallonia, how are you going to comply with the criteria of Chapter 3 and not based on the criteria of Chapter 2? In this case, when the government is in short supply, should the criteria in Chapter 2 be applied when we are in Chapter 3? This is a legal problem which can lead to appeals and claims for compensation, in particular from the municipalities but also from the people concerned in these communes. Why am I targeted when others are not, while the ministerial decree does not mention this priority to first remove rural areas? I have a big question mark on what has already been discussed. You probably have some answers. I come to Chapter 4 of the Order, which takes over the formation of zones and slices within the zones. If I understand correctly, at the moment, in version 2 of the plan, you have added either two more zones or two more slices for the southern part of the country. If we calculate the volume that can be removed per slice, we arrive roughly at 520 megawatts. This means that, since the gap can range up to 3,000 megawatts, there is a risk that other tranches may be required. For the moment, it has been presented to us as a kind of turning point, as a measure of solidarity. First we do slice 1, then we indigue slice 2 and so on. I understand, at the turn of the presentation of the second map, that after reaching the sixth slice, we return to the first. This makes some colleagues in Flanders react, saying that some sub-areas will be targeted twice. Except that the ministerial decree provides for 5 per cent cuttings and does not say that after making six slices, we return to the first. Of the cuts per 5%, this gives 20 slices. Second, the Ministerial Decree provides in Chapter 5 for exceptions to: - hospitals and health centres; - public distribution customers; - consumers or categories of consumers who enjoy preferential treatment in accordance with the 1945 Act. The question of governors is partly related to the list of institutions which may benefit from it. What is she? This will have an impact on businesses and citizens located in the areas concerned. Since the cabin that serves the priorities under Chapter 5 will not be removed, the neighbours of these institutions will not be relieved either. But this has nothing to do with the criteria set out in the Committee on Rural Areas. This concerns the simple application of the ministerial decree. When will you be able to inform every citizen of his or her individual situation? Mrs. and Mr. Governors, I hear you have information about the streets. I guess this is the old plan. This has changed less in Flanders than in the south of the country. We would like to see a website on which every citizen, company, community can introduce its EAN code in order to know in which area it is located. That seems to me the minimum. What worries me in the document that we received at the beginning of the session is that Elia presents this as being related to events that occurred in 2014. On page 7, I quote this document: "events in 2014, with first of all the unavailability of the nuclear units of Doel 3 and Tihange 2". It wasn't in 2014 that it happened, but in June 2012! At that time, we didn't think and thought the problem could be solved. The situation should have been managed since 2012 as an emergency situation but also as a situation of shortage. I am not at all sure that the second version of your plan respects the legality with regard to tranches, rural areas and criteria – I am thinking of the famous list that has been requested by the Commissioners. Last dimension: the calendar. Given all these elements and uncertainties – I refer to the questions raised by the governors, but also to those brought about by this debate – I would like to know what your timetable is for the next communication. As Minister or Secretary of State, when are you going to be able to inform citizens, municipalities, businesses – on which Mr. Van Quickenborne is obviously right to insist – and the communities of the situation in which they will find themselves in compliance with the Ministerial Order? Then, what kind of compensation can be considered? Companies and independents – I'm thinking of pharmacies, butchers, bakeries and restaurateurs – need this electricity. Their turnover could also decrease, to the extent that they could endure losses, especially if they were concentrated on six rather than the twenty. It could always fall back on the same people. For twenty days, the current could be interrupted for two hours, with a bearing of course. That's the minimum situation. I have the impression, Madam President, that we are missing a document on Elia's internal procedure. Everything is played out in this text. We have the 2005 Ministerial Order, the 2002 Royal Order, the technical regulation, but we perceive a shadow zone in the documents currently accessible. I would therefore like to receive a copy of the internal procedure in Elia. In this way, we will be able to see how this body has referred to the criteria and whether it has complied with the Ministerial Order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u37	Mr President, I will be brief because my colleagues have already spoken and my colleague Brotcorne has asked at the beginning of the sitting for a hearing in Elia. I will intervene to say that it will be necessary. The Secretary of State will already be able to clarify this point. You have submitted a document to the committee: the letter by which Elia replied to you. There's something I don't understand. They say you're asking for a report. It is very clearly stated – it is Elia who writes: "As a result of this controversy, you ask us via the above-mentioned letter to draw up a report on how the entire legal framework was transposed by Elia into his release plan". At this point, you're asking for a report. However, a few paragraphs below show that Elia is not satisfied with a report and goes much further by implementing a change in the plan. The knot of the interventions that I have just heard is there. For your part, you need a report to see if there are any imbalances, whether the legal framework is respected, etc. And Elia says he's in a position to propose a plan change and he's doing it right away. That is the essential point. The document is a letter from Elia. That's why I also asked for Elia's hearing. You can see that at the timing level, there is something that is not quite clear. I wish I had some explanations from you. Is that a report you're asking for? At this stage, there is no change in the plan, but it is up to you, on the basis of the report, to possibly ask Elia for a change in the plan. But Elia proposes changes to the plan from the outset. That is the point I wanted to make in this committee because I think the other aspects have been mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u38	Mr President, I would like to thank the Governors for their very clear explanations. In the first draft, without a more detailed analysis of tranches 1 to 6, it turns out that on average, only 24% of posts in Wallonia were off-loaded while almost 60% were off-loaded in Flanders. Far from my idea of wanting to make the Community at all costs, but you will admit that there was indeed an imbalance. This was rectified in the second mill. For this second milling, I have a triple question. Madam Secretary of State, first of all, your new plan divides the South-West Hainaut and Namur areas and the South-East Luxembourg and Liège areas into two sub-areas A and B. Only the two zones A are on the front line for clearance. Areas B will be deprived of power only in the event of an extension of the shortage or a larger supply disruption. How do you intend to define these two sub-areas and within what time frame? Do you already have, at this stage of the percentage per province, positions that will be off-loaded? Secondly, do you confirm that in the event of discharge, the deactivation will be manual and that, therefore, the order of the slices will be reversed from 6 to 1? So that tranche 6 will be the first to be deprived of electricity in case of peak consumption. Thirdly, Professor Ernst had called into question the non-compliance with the criteria laid down in the ministerial decree of 3 June 2005 in the framework of the first relief plan. How would the new plan be more consistent?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u39	Mr President, it is obviously not as a representative of the PTB-PVDA – the same party in the north and south of the country – that I will kindly consider the Community conflicts used in this matter. It's unfortunate to get there. Whether we live in the North, in the South of the country, or in Brussels, the situation will also be disastrous for everyone. It is rather distressing to see this Community drift again in a case. I would like to address the Minister and the Secretary of State. Did you have an opportunity to look at what I suggested you do? I know you have a lot of work to do in preparing the release plans this winter, and you're in business, but I wouldn't want to be in the same situation in a year's time as we are today, and we have to deal with the disaster that is likely to happen again. I think we have had the opportunity, on other occasions, to show that all power in the market leads to a shortage of electricity. I would like to know whether you have considered a long-term solution so that we do not find ourselves in the same situation in twelve months' time. In relation to civil liability in the event of discharge and in the event of damage which, in my opinion, will inevitably occur at the time of this discharge, if any, who will be liable for the damage caused by the power cuts? Some said it was very complicated, that it would be a lawyer's debate. It seems to me that, a priori, a consumer enters into a contract with a supplier of electricity and, in my opinion, it will be the consumer in the first place who will be responsible. We can talk about this. I believe that the state and the government could intervene in terms of taking charge of legal aid, of taking charge of the legal proceedings that might be caused. It would be abnormal if families who had suffered damage but lacked means were ultimately penalized financially; or even simply because they did not have control over those legal issues. I ask the government if it can't consider legal aid for families who suffer damage at the time of the discharge. There is one final point that I would like to put to you, and I come back to the question of the criteria used for the discharge. Many colleagues have said that business continuity must be ensured above all. I wonder if we can't balance this. Let's imagine that Audi Forest stops operating for four hours: production would be delayed by four hours and that would not be catastrophic for the staff. Technical unemployment could be considered. On the other hand, it can be very serious for families. Let us consider the consequences for a newborn if there is no electricity or for elderly people living alone who could end up in absolute darkness. There are a multitude of cases and even if we are aware of what has been done in other countries, we cannot imagine all the situations that may arise. I wonder if it would not be better to consider the safety of people rather than short-term economic interests, so to deprive some large companies of electricity. I am not referring here to the Seveso plants, but to those which will suffer only economic damage. The situation of families can be much more serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u40	I invite the ministers to answer, and then you will have the opportunity to ask further questions. Madam and Mr Ministers, you will have heard this call for clear and definitive information, if possible. A question seems fundamental to me and I would like to repeat it to you. Who will be the priority clients? On what basis will this list be established? By whom and how will it be validated? You have all the time to answer us, but we want to have specific answers to the Commissioners' questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u41	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank the Governors for their briefings today and for their full cooperation since the beginning of this work which has been carried out together and which is obviously not finished. Of the many questions you have asked, although of course we are not going to repeat the debate we had last time, many of you have nevertheless rested on questions relating to this debate. I would therefore like to make two comments to begin with. Is the preparation of a possible discharge a health ballad? No. Do you feel like we're taking this a little week without taking care of it? I can assure you that, on the contrary, it requires the energy of the governors, who are present today, of all the mayors but also of the administrations. And there are still many other stakeholders at each level of power, Regions and Communities. It is by pulling all in the same direction that we will be best prepared in case. There is no certainty that the discharge plan will be activated. Even today, we are doing everything we can to avoid it. Suppliers must continue to do everything they can to avoid it. Their responsibility in this area is of course not negligible. As you know, it is with the suppliers that the customers have signed a contract to receive electricity and it is to the suppliers to provide it. I would remind you that in this respect we have established an imbalance tariff of EUR 4 500 MW per hour. Every hour we start again with 4,500 euros. That's 100 times more than the market price. If the supplier is unable to supply electricity to his customer, he will be severely punished. This puts pressure on all producers/suppliers to do as much as they can. And I can assure you that there are still things to be done to find ourselves in a situation where there is a balance between production and consumption. We also continue to work on the rest: the strategic reserve and the various measures to reduce consumption. Let me remind you that Electrabel announced that Doel 4 would resume at the end of 2014. This means that for the most difficult months in statistical terms in terms of peak consumption that are January and February, if we can recover Doel 4 as Electrabel predicted, then we are in a situation that is much more comfortable. Statistically, this is also close to what is guaranteed in the electricity law. The second general comment concerns the policy choice in terms of energy heading. I will allow myself not to go back to everything we said in the previous presentation. Is there an energy course clearly defined by this government? Yes. On what basis is this energy course based? Both on renewable/gas mix but also on storage and all the issues related to storage development, not to mention the increase in imports through the increase in interconnections. At a previous committee meeting, I had given the different dates in relation to all these issues. I don't want to repeat everything here. What happened? A whole series of questions have been asked in relation to this. When did we receive the map of Elias with the ventilation of the different cabins, the percentages of the cabins area by area? We received this card on September 2. It was supposed to be 10:00 p.m., but I'd like to go check it out. In any case, it was not eight o'clock in the morning!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u42	Maybe it was 9:50 p.m. or 10:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u43	From that moment on, a number of questions were asked to Elia. At the meeting with the governors, we asked the same type of questions and obtained general answers. In view of the lack of specific responses, I asked Elia for a numerical report on the various elements contained in the 2005 Ministerial Order by Minister Verwilghen. This text defines the release plan; Elia is responsible for preparing it. When I asked him for this report, Elia immediately informed me that it was not possible to change this discharge plan. It's true that I relayed it. A posteriori, I might not have had to, but I wanted to be careful. In fact, asking for a report – because legitimate questions arose – while knowing that it was impossible to change this plan for this winter, but not saying it, was to suggest that we could change it, when Elia had told me the opposite. When I received the report, which you have in front of you, I had to see that the figures for the different areas varied greatly. They ranged from 3.5 per cent in the North-East to 8.4 per cent in the South-East. On the basis of the ministerial decree, this differential was obviously not acceptable. Elia immediately proposed to me to adapt the relief plan to correct the contribution of each area and to stick to what the ministerial decree provides. In other words, the aim was to ensure that 5 per cent of the burden of the geographical area was removed or reduced. This is set out in 4.2 of the annex to the Ministerial Order. Elia made me the proposal you know. I'm not going to go over it in detail, because you've been able to read it before. This proposal allows, on the basis of this percentage criterion, to correct the distribution since the differential now breaks down from 3.5% to 5%. The different areas of the whole country are in a similar situation, but not perfectly identical. This is obviously not the only criterion that Elias must apply. There is also a series of technical considerations. In any case, this is a similar and proportional effort across all the different areas. I've heard many of you talk about things, which I've also read in the press and on social media. Some transform the Elias proposal by presenting it in a Community way. Mr Degroote, what you said is absolutely wrong. It's unacceptable. I do not agree with you when you say that it is a Community matter. It's not a Walloon problem. The proof is that Elia didn't change anything for Walloon Brabant. You know that there are several zones and that there are other areas besides Walloon Brabant for which Elijah is not making any changes. I want to be very clear about this. I would have made the same decision for any other zone. You interpret every decision as a Community file, but the law is the law: there is a ministerial decision from 2005 with precise criteria, including the criterion referred to. I do not know, Mr Degroote, but a rule does not seem to apply to you if it is not convenient. I want to be clear about that. Elia makes this proposal, Elia must now work to adapt her card. I say right away: there is no change on the cabins. There are more than 97,000 registered cabins in Belgium. Not listed by Elia, whose work is not. Elia didn't have that information. It was the regionally competent DSOs that had to transmit cabin information. In relation to this, we are not going to change the delestible or undelestible cabins. Changing the cabins, i.e. saying to each other, that is, the cabin A was unleashable, the cabin B was not, and we reverse, etc.; it is really making the situation complicated for both governors and mayors. Perhaps, in a second phase, not for this winter, but for next winter, it will be necessary to further develop this plan. But I think we need to see one step at a time. It will also be necessary to assess the situation on the way out of the winter and to be able to ask questions, including how the cabins were or were not in an unusable area. But as I say right here, there may also be other types of questions to be asked, I return to the regulatory basis, at the level of the ministerial decree. A number of questions may also need to be asked about the ministerial order and perhaps also to change it. It dates back to 2005. There may also be things that need to be changed. We cannot, of course, start working outside the framework of the ministerial decree. In relation to this, Elia gave me this report which I asked for and which I provided you with today from the beginning of this committee. I have also requested an opinion from the Legal Service of the SPF Economy on the clearance plan but also on the corrections proposed by Elia, on the basis of the existing legal framework. We often talk about the ministerial decree. It is true that there are also other regulations which are also to be complied with. The essential thing is, it must be recognised, at the level of this ministerial decree. Elia will not be required to provide a change of cabins, but it must identify the two areas concerned, the West Zone and the East Zone, as soon as possible. I almost want to say that the sooner we get it, the better. Of course, I am not the one who chooses the communes that are now included in the relief plan. It's Elia doing this job. Neither will I choose whether the commune will be in the A or B in the South-East and South-West zones. There is a set of technical parameters to be considered depending on consumption and capacity and type of network. It is the responsibility and the job of Elias and I have no doubt that you can ask them all possible and imaginable questions. This unloading plan does not date from today, but I sometimes feel, listening to you, that we barely discover it! I think the governors share that feeling. The Ministerial Order dates from 2005. There were already maps before. It is true that they were not made on the basis of cabins but on the basis of high voltage stations. It was much less transparent, I say. The refining work that has been done is an ant work. We don't have 97,000 high-voltage stations, there's about 800. That was where the plan was built. There were all the requests to the DRMs to get the data and it took some time. I had to remind you that, because things already existed in this area, even though I do not think it was possible to ask the same questions as today, particularly those concerning the famous high-voltage stations. Was it possible to verify whether the Ministerial Order was properly implemented and complied with? On the old maps, it was not possible to ask these questions. The work of refining and transparency that has been carried out legitimately makes it possible to ask these questions today. It will also allow for a review of some of the issues in this order and a review of how the plan was constructed by Elia. What is certain is that in addition to the questions that can be asked today about compliance with the regulatory framework and the application of the framework, if all this refining work had not been carried out, that is to say, to the cabins – I would really like you to realize this – there would have been no question of how to prevent in advance, including the neighbourhood by neighbourhood, street by street, citizens in advance and to see precisely what the consequences would be of a discharge. As the Governors reminded you, and as I mentioned at the previous committee meeting, there have already been floods in 2006. At the time, if I am not mistaken, the city of Antwerp had been particularly affected. However, when you arrive at the cabins, you still have to arrive at homes, households, businesses, self-employed people and SMEs. All this work cannot be done by the federal government. Why? Who is once again competent in this matter? It is the DRMs that are the responsibility of the regional authorities. In this respect, I understand that things have moved a little faster on the Dutch-speaking side. But I can assure you that, on the francophone side, the DSOs are also working to identify neighbourhoods by neighbourhood, street by street what the reality of the relief plan will be, which they should be thanked for. This work falls within their competence, of course, in relation to the Regions. According to all the information that has been transmitted to me, – we are in constant contact – this information will be available for Wallonia, Madam and Mr Governors, but also for Brussels, within the next few days. Colleagues, Madam Governors, you have asked a series of questions. I'll answer those that concern me directly. Questions about suppliers were first asked. It is normal for comments to be made, but I would remind you that every Belgian citizen has signed a contract with an electricity supplier. It is therefore up to the suppliers to comply with their contracts with their customers. That's normal. It's their first responsibility. At the supplier level, I spoke to you earlier about the imbalance tariff. It would be interesting for the committee to ask for a hearing from the Belgian Federation of Electric and Gas Enterprises. I find their silence intriguing. I think it's a great idea to audition them. In terms of compensation, I've heard a lot. Is there a legal basis for this? No. Suppliers must first comply with their contracts with their customers. For the rest, there is obviously the Civil Code. We can consider other alternatives, but that's the basis. As far as communication is concerned, at the previous committee we provided you with the procedures for the circumstances between "J minus 7" and "J minus 1" and "J zero". In addition to communications with the crisis centre and the governors, I would point out that there is also a call center that has been set up for citizens by the SPF Economy. Answers can also be found on the Elias website. In terms of awareness of energy consumption, global communications are programmed in conjunction with all parties – the SPF Economy, Elia, the Crisis Centre, the CREG. Regional Ministers are integrated into the procedure from "J minus 7" in case of risk of shortage. A meeting is also planned shortly. I was asked a question earlier about letters from the Flemish Government. I've already answered these letters. The letter has already been sent. Of course, regional administrations will be closely involved. Several members addressed the important issue of priority clients. We had discussed it with the Governor at the September 3 meeting. Their list is drawn up by the DRMs, according to Minister Verwilghen's 2005 Ministerial Order. It may be supplemented by the Governors. As much as we know about "macro" situations, we need to refine our information to "micro" situations. Who better than the mayors, in direct contact with the governors, could be entrusted with this task? It is also a question of identifying possible difficulties in identifying priority clients. Once this work is done, it can go very quickly. By the end of September – although committing to a date is still delicate – it is important that governors have a very clear view of this list. As you have understood, we ourselves are dependent on the work of the DSOs, since they must transmit all this information to us. Unless there are still a few questions, Madam President, I shall pass the floor to the Minister of the Interior to complete my remarks with regard to her competences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u44	Madam President, I will be very brief. After all, there is little to add. I just want to confirm that the card with all the different posts was made available to the governors the day before the presentation. The procedure of the shutdown itself and the card available, of course, existed before. However, for the refined maps with the real designation of each post that is or is not unset and of the zones in which those different posts are located, the data had only been collected the day before the meeting with the governors on 3 September 2014. I would like to confirm the following once again. It was asked whether the card was made in full respect of the various legal, royal and ministerial decisions. That was confirmed to us, including by Elijah, at the meeting in question. That was also requested by several governors. I can also address Mrs Berx, who has asked the same question three times and has received the same answer each time. I want to confirm that once again. We must not be mistaken, because the discussion we have today, where everyone insists on the obligation of transparency of information, we could not have had it three years ago. We should have just come and told you that we'll cut. We could not have given a list of the communes and the various delestable or non-delegable posts. We weren't there at all. We knew, in the large stations and the large transformers, the areas that could be cleared. No more! For this reason, the past experiences in the field of unloading have been catastrophic. Let us take those that took place in the province of Antwerp: areas have been cleared and we absolutely did not know that they were going to be cleared because we did not have the knowledge of the distribution posts to know what the real consequences were going to be on the ground. We are asked today when we can tell which citizen will be injured, but until three years ago, we could not give you the communes! We weren't talking about the streets, we weren't talking about the shops, we weren't talking about the businesses, we weren't talking about the big customers, we weren't talking about the neighborhoods! Even at the municipal level, it was not possible to do so. We are not going to complain today that we have at least this information, even if it is true that we would rather not have to use it. At the level of the interior and crisis management, we are in a special situation. Usually, crisis management is a sudden, unanticipated event. In fact, it is always like this that the delestages have been managed in the past. When the discharge came, we apologized to the population that had been injured. I hope we will all agree that what we are doing today – even if it is not perfect and it will still require refinement and evaluation – makes it possible to plan for crisis management. As I said here about a month ago, we are talking about crisis management. And this is not the most enjoyable thing to do because it means that we are in a crisis situation. That is why I am present today as Minister of the Interior and the Crisis Centre is entering the game. Again, I am pleased today that the Crisis Centre can benefit from all the information we have, from the energy from Elias to GRDs, to the collaboration of all the services. The Crisis Centre welcomes the good collaboration with the governors. This plan has become federal, with elements of coordination, harmonization and standardization that have been recalled by the two governors. I thank them for that. It is impossible for us to do this work without the governors' relay. Of course, this must be done in a harmonised way, in a uniform way, in a coordinated way, but the situation is different in Antwerp than in Liège and it is different in Luxembourg than in West Flanders. We must do this in a uniform way, but in full respect for the specificity of the various provinces. This was very well explained by the governor of the province of Liège: how can we manage to do something in the same way with respect for our provincial differences? This is where the challenge lies! I would therefore like to answer Mrs Temmerman's justified question. It is also for this reason that the answers cannot come directly, today and suddenly. Then I come to the justified questions that Mrs Berx has raised about the railways. What do we do with the level crossings? I would rather not give you an answer today and give you a coordinated answer based on the information we will have and also on the information of SNCB and Infrabel rather than tell you today that we will all open or close them. We must not go into this logic. The logic must be different. What is the logic? The governors were given information. Fortunately, between us we have these governors: they had already worked well and prepared the work. They then redirected themselves to their mayors by receiving and collecting all the information that the mayors came back to them. Depending on this, questions and specificities are sorted and a number of questions go back to having overall and federal management throughout the territory. Governors can do a lot at the provincial level by responding directly to the mayors. But they can't do anything. For example: railways. Another example is the bridges to allow boats to pass at locks. Are we opening them, are we closing them? Excellent question. Might as well do the same over the entire territory. Otherwise, it doesn't make much sense. Let us remember that we must also incorporate our federal dimension in a lot of matters. If I was a minister in a government of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, the Vlaamse Gemeenschap or the German-speaking Community, I would not like a Federal Crisis Centre to impose on me, in my powers, what I must do in a uniform manner throughout the whole territory. In a moment of crisis, there is a share of federal jurisdiction, but it is their material competence. It is well known that in Belgium respect for material skills is fundamental. In addition, this adds a little more coordination and better management. So let's do it. That's why we have this federal crisis management process with the governors who do this transmission belt work. But they're not just a transmission belt. They are also the authorities which, at Belgian level, have the best powers and experience to manage these times of crisis as such. That is why we must have common management.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u45	In relation to coordination, Minister, since the question has been asked, there are governors and federal ministers...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u46	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u47	Mr Calvo, if you don't mind, I'm the chairman of this committee... Mr Minister, have the competent ministers, particularly those in the interior and those in the environment who have the responsibility for DRMs, been also invited to this coordination? The question was asked, so I'm trying to get answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u48	In the context of crisis management, our interlocutors are the ministers-presidents; this is the procedure. On the other hand, in the specific areas of competence, particularly energy, as Mrs Fonck said earlier, a consultation-type meeting with energy ministers, where I think I am also present – I have accepted the invitation – is planned to coordinate the ministers responsible for energy as such at the regional and federal level. That said, we all have an interest in talking to each other as much as possible. At least let us grasp the positive elements of this crisis management which is not pleasant for anyone. Let us talk and try to anticipate the next questions that might arise for the future. Will there be a point of contact? Yes. That is also an answer to Mr Van Quickenborne's question. Be-Alert exists. Use it. It is available to the various entities, as well as to the citizens, but it must register. Do that! That is the best way to be informed as a citizen. Do it. Mrs Berx has said it, I will repeat it and we will repeat it: Be-Alert is one of the best possible ways of informing citizens. Last item, Mr. Friart, on the blackout. What we really need to integrate is that unloading is precisely the mechanism that avoids blackout. Why did these blackouts happen, for example in Italy? That's because there was no procedure for unloading, and so, at some point, there's a succession of automatic actions, all triggers are activated and there's a total blackout. Here, again, I come back to the question of Mr. Van Quickenborne earlier on the relationship with companies; if we do not have these elements of solidarity so raised by Mr Vanvelthoven, the consequence is that we are all in a different kind of crisis than a disaster. I repeat, blackout is everyone and it's a long time. It's not three hours. I can't give you a perspective in terms of hours. Solidarity, the management of the discharge, the good collaboration between all levels of power in relation to a situation that does not please anyone, but it is true that half of our nuclear fleet is unavailable, it was not something that had been planned. There is not a back-up of electricity generation from all our nuclear power plants in Belgium. We can try, but in terms of cost, I can tell you what it will cost – no, we don't even know, how expensive it would be. We are in a situation of potential crisis, we have the means to anticipate it, we have the means to manage it, and even if the risk is realized – we go back to crisis management – J–7, J–3, J–1, this is the whole procedure that we came here to explain to you. At least we have the means to manage it, it is not pleasant, not easy, but to manage it in the best way possible. So far, the various elements that I wanted to explain in the context of my competence in the area of Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u49	The many questions of Members come from the change in the plan concerning the discharge cabins. The communication proved a little difficult this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u50	There is no change of cabins on the map. Relevant questions were asked by the Secretary of State and answered in the Elias report that she was right. Because of one of the criteria of this famous ministerial decree, in some places there is a rise from 3.5 per cent to 8.4 per cent. It was probably not possible to have 5% everywhere, but there is a big difference between 5 and 8.4. As long as we didn't have all the details for all the cabins, it was much less easy to ask the question of 5%. We have now been able to refine this data with the help of distribution system operators (DSOs) and all intermediaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u51	This has in any case caused a lot of questions. I give the floor to the Commissioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u52	Madam Governor, I would also like to thank you for the frank and sometimes confrontational conversation you had with your mayors. That was very tasty. On one front, however, I remain hungry. I should like to put my question to Mr Van Quickenborne. What about any economic damage? I am not talking about our multinationals or SMEs, but about our small self-employed. How can we sell the unfair arbitrariness when dividing into discs to our dentist? How should we explain that dentist A in municipality X can get a phone call the day before and must clear his schedule between 17h 00 and 20h 00, because no one can consult, while the neighboring dentist can work perfectly and he can even take those customers with him? That is unfair and very arbitrary. We have no explanation for that. More than that, it might even be possible that within the same municipality a dentist in district A is switched off, while another in district B can continue to work quietly. The Minister has already said that the federal government will not intervene in any compensation. If we look at the assessment of the risk, the insurers will also use curved mesh gestures and say that they will not get involved. How can we explain this to our small self-employed?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u53	Mr President, many Members have made the proposal to define a very clear information point for all stakeholders as soon as possible. I am thinking primarily of local authorities and, secondly, of citizens and businesses, a phaser that everyone can live with. Minister, you have not specified it, but such an information point is important. Otherwise, there is no point in Parliament meeting here. It is a suggestion which is widely supported in Parliament, across the boundaries of majority and opposition. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State and the Minister to make such a call centre or single point of contact work. Are they prepared to do so? That's a relatively simple question. That's different from Be-Alert, where when the government has something to say, one has to look at his cell phone. No, one should be able to take his cell phone. Mr. Metsu's dentist should be able to take his cell phone and know who to call. He should not shop in all kinds of 0800 numbers, records or with Mrs Berx and Mr Wathelet. No, Mr Metsu's dentist needs to know who to call. Do you want to set up that call centre or single point or contact or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u54	(...). There is even a dossier on this for the Council of Ministers, which is being prepared.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u55	So there's gonna be a call center. So you are taking Parliament's suggestion, for which I sincerely thank you. It can be one of the levers to the...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u56	The dossier is in preparation for another Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u57	It could be one of the levers to put an end to the chaos that still exists. Second, I'm not a shareholder of Elia. I didn't apply to Elijah or similar companies either. However, I have difficulty with the crusade that the cdH, being the party of the two political leaders, is taking here today against Elijah. Elia must come to Parliament because the company would not have done his homework. His communication would have been premature. Mrs Fonck, excuse me, but the FPS Economy, for which you are politically responsible, posted the plan, which you later had modified, online. Remember the committee about this about the blackout of the site of the FPS Economy and not of the site of Elia. The indignation and crusade of the cdH towards Elijah, who is sweating today to let the lamp burn after ten years of non-energy policy, are therefore completely misplaced. Mr Wathelet and Mrs Fonck, you are primarily responsible. Moving that hot potato over to the network manager should stop now. You are responsible for this, together with the operators, the producers in the first place. So I really hope that my colleagues in the cdH will slow down a bit, otherwise the debate will get even hotter in that area. Mrs Fonck, it is your responsibility to speak with one voice. You yourself have turned it into a Community debate, and of course Mr De Groote likes to play with it. Mr Wathelet and Mrs Fonck, I once again argue that Objective 3 and Tihange 2 have been stationary since 2012. Mrs Berx's questions should have been answered long ago, because the problems with Objective 3 and Tihange 2 have existed since 2012. Finally, Mrs Fonck, during your presence at a previous committee meeting, you said that you would do everything in your power not to use the exit plan. There is a consensus on this: please let us avoid a cut-off. To this end, a great many measures are possible. However, you remain quite abstract about what is still in the pipeline in terms of sensitisation, demand management and strategic reserve. That is why I would like to know what is actually in the pipeline to avoid a cut-off. Today we talked all the time about the closure, the way in which it would be done and how it should be communicated, but what concrete measures did you take between the last committee meeting and today to avoid a cut-off?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u58	Mr President, Madam President, I should like to return to the answers that have been given by the Minister of the Interior to my friend and colleague, Mr Friart, mayor of Le Roeulx. He referred to the risk of overconsumption after the discharge. I have the impression that Mr. Wathelet did not respond. On the other hand, to bounce back on what our colleague from Groen has mentioned, I think it is wise to prepare a relief. However, should we not pay more attention to the problem of increasing production and decreasing consumption? These are two important points which will help to avoid the discharge. In addition, I feel like I'm in 18th-century Russia! The Prime Minister - and lover - of Catherine II, who was called Potemkine, had villages built only with facades. The Minister of the Interior told us earlier: "No problem! In all provinces, there are consultations between governors and mayors. Questionnaires were sent to the latter". I can tell you that, in Hainaut, we received nothing at all. We learn things in the press or in this committee. For the rest, nothing! We were called to a meeting, to which we will of course go, on 29 September. That said, in order to better prepare it, we should have received questionnaires and thus complete the elements that you have mentioned quite rightly today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u59	I have two points of reply. Firstly, a technical point, Madam Secretary of State: in your speech, you are still basing the difference between the zones on points of exit, on cabins. That's not the right argument, not the right way to get to that 5 %. Those cabins are a false representation of reality; the basis for achieving that 5 % must be the power. Therefore, to make a long story short, I would be very interested to get Elijah's detailed and correct calculation method. Then much will become clear. Secondly, it is said that we are making it a Community matter. There is nothing less true, and we regret it and wish to point it out. On September 3rd, the facts were clear and clear. On 3 September and the next few days, there was no Community waste, it was only after that that there was and there have been interventions with Elijah. In short, if there had been no intervention with Elijah, the matter would not have had a Community dimension. The fact that we say that we regret this is obviously enough for some people to say that we are communitarizing the matter, but of course we are quite normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u60	On the other hand, I was present during Mr Degroote's reply. Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. However, I remain hungry. I asked three specific questions. I also said that if we want to act together against the potential calamity that awaits us, we must bear three things in mind. Firstly, we must do everything we can to prevent the shutdown. I have asked whether there is a common plan or whether we are prepared to draw up a common plan. Mr Wathelet, you have replied that the federal government is difficult to force the municipalities and the regions. That wasn't my question. My question was whether there could be coordination.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u61	(...) That has become the federal plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u62	But where is your federal plan to prevent the shutdown?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u63	Ma'am, the plan is on the federal level, isn't it? The coordination of the information takes place federally. It is laid down how the information is distributed to the governors and the provinces and then to the mayors. It lays down what should be communicated, how and how information is exchanged between the different services. That is clearly stated in the plan. At the same time, it is assessed at the federal level how the railway lines will be managed when there is a cut-off. This will also be coordinated at the federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u64	Mr. Secretary, it's not about that. It's about avoiding the shutdown. In what way can municipalities ensure that there is sensitisation and that the citizens take action, so that there is no need to switch off? That's what it's about! It was said here by the various mayors and also by the governor that there is a lack of coordination and information. My question is: please, do something about it. The first thing that needs to be done is to avoid shutdown. The second is the shutdown plan itself. I would like to stress once again that it is very difficult. We all agree that one must be switched off and the other must not be switched off. It's true. If not, everyone will be blacked out. However, I would ask you once again to set out clear criteria so that we can explain the decisions. Indeed, I read in the ministerial decision that the shutdown will take place in different phases. Perhaps, as Mr Nollet says, the list of priority customers should be reviewed in the first phase. We cannot compare a real emergency plan with what we are doing now, as the shutdown has been announced. Of course, these priority customers remain priority customers. Then it is hard for a lot of people to understand that the whole port of Ghent lies in a disconnect zone. All the items listed are in the port of Ghent: industrial production processes, urban customers, 70 600 inhabitants, industry with the aim of protecting industrial installations, six Seveso companies, the supply of clinics, emergency services, public transport, communication centres. There's a clinic, the port company is located there. Maritime police are in that zone. It is very difficult to explain that the port of Ghent is in the junction zone. I'm not saying she should be protected. I ask you on the basis of what criteria the port of Ghent lies in that zone. Minister, clear information is very important to make the people understand why something is happening. There is no clear information on this. Finally, I would like to comment on communication. You're right. It is a step forward because we can provide for a number of measures. Mrs Fonck, I almost fell off my chair when you said that the plan had long been known, that the municipalities had been able to prepare themselves for this long time. I'm sorry, but the port of Ghent wasn't in the first plan and it is now. Once again, there may be very good reasons for this, but we could not prepare for it, because we only now know that the port is in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u65	Mr President, Madam Minister, I can't believe it. As far as the timetable is concerned, I congratulate you! You receive a document of extreme importance, of extreme sensitivity between 9:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m., if I understand correctly, and you organise this great communication to the governors the next morning. Foremostly, with this way of acting, a problem had to arise. You will receive the document on September 2 at 10:00 p.m. and on September 3 you will communicate it to the governor, the press and the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u66	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u67	Urbi and orbi.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u68	But you're wondering, starting at 10:00 p.m. I noted what you said earlier. As soon as the document is received, you have questions. But at no time do you say in the communication made the next day that caution must be exercised, that everything still needs to be checked, that there are still questions, particularly with regard to compliance with the ministerial decree. It is at this level that the problem lies because, subsequently, a correction has to be made. On the other hand, I feel that there are more questions when we leave this committee than when we enter it. When you leave, there are more questions than answers. You said – and I think you're right to be cautious – that you asked the SPF Economy for advice. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u69	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u70	You asked for legal advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u71	I asked for legal advice from the SPF Economy Legal Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u72	So I understood. This means that the work that needs to be continued with the governors, the communes, all the parties that need to be informed is obviously suspended from the content of this opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u73	Will the cabins that are in the communes still, tomorrow, be delestible or out of the clearance zone? Yes. So if, today, X cabins are located in a municipality A – you know that the cabin location does not correspond to the boundaries of a municipality. So cabins are all over the place. Commune A has as many cabins on its municipality. She knows the number of such cabins. Either they are all in a deletable zone, or none is in a deletable zone, or, for example, 50% of them are in a deletable zone. It was not I who decided which municipalities would be involved, nor the number of cabins. I'll remind you there's 97,000 of them. Tomorrow, will the cabins still be in or out of the area in the same way? The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u74	That's not the point! In your reading of the Ministerial Order, you say that you have asked for a legal opinion. This is quite understandable since there are a number of questions which are asked about the comparison between Chapter 2 and Chapter 3 and the criteria to be used and for which we do not have an answer. I understand the prudence in this matter, but it means that, as a result, there can be an impact of the answers that will be given in a legal way on the work that needs to be done. Tell us today: these are the criteria, here's the list and here's what we're doing in relation to Chapter 2 for rural areas. You can't say it since you have to check, it seems logical to me! When will the legal opinion be given?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u75	I can't tell you otherwise than the way I said it. Should the mayors, in direct connection with the governors, continue to prepare in the same way? The answer is yes. I cannot answer more clearly than by saying yes or no. The answer is yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u76	Mr. Nollet's second question is when you will receive the legal advice you requested from the SPF Economy in order to reassure him of the regularity of the plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u77	I hope I get it as soon as possible. On the other hand, it is not I who will decide, in the south-east zone and in the south-west zone, whether the communes are in A or B. It is not the Prince's act. Elia will identify zones A and B based on a series of criteria such as consumption or the number of megawatts. Whatever happens, whether these communes are in A or B, the effects will be the same. Elias must be able to identify whether it is A or B and pass on the information to governors and mayors. But Elia will not be able to do this in twenty-four hours. I hope this will happen as soon as possible, but in the end, it will not change anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u78	My question was not about A or B, but about compliance with the Ministerial Order and the legal reading to be offered. I understand that there is a legal opinion. I hear it's as fast as possible, which is relatively vague. However, Madam President, since we are going to bring Elia next time, we will also have to bring the two ministers concerned so that we can have the legal perspective that will be given at that time. I hope so anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u79	We shall come to the order of business immediately thereafter, Mr Nollet, if we may.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u80	I repeat: this legal opinion will make it possible to go further on the question of criteria, in particular on rural areas and on so-called priority customers beyond allocation A and B. I understand that it is not you who are going... But, depending on the reading given to the ministerial decree, everything can still change in this respect. I take the example of earlier. There are currently six slices. If the reading of the Ministerial Order says that 20 tranches are required, what do we do? We're going back to the first round after the sixth, and it's the port of Ghent again, or are we going to the seventh, the eighth, the ninth? That's legal reading. Or you already tell me today that you are certain and that there are only six slices. In that case, say it now. Now say that, legally, you've taken all your assurances and that after you've done the six slices, we're back to the first.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u81	Are you done, Mr. Nollet? We're waiting for the answers. Other questions have been asked by your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u82	My last question is about this internal procedural document which seems to me to be the document in which one could possibly...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u83	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u84	You read the ministerial decree. I hope I do not teach you anything by reading the ministerial decree. Reference is made to the internal procedure for the application of the safeguard code. This is where we have some of the criteria that are used internally in Elia. It's just that. It's not something I'm teaching you. I hope I don't tell you there's this. It is this document which, I believe, may be interesting for the continuation of our work, particularly in view of the forthcoming hearing in Elia.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u85	I'd like to go back to this blackout thing. This is not a blackout in the absence of discharge, but rather one that will follow a period of discharge. When you talk to professionals, such as engineers, you realize that there are great risks in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u86	Minister, Madam Secretary of State, the message sent by the majority of Commissioners was not of a Community nature; rather, it expressed a spirit of solidarity. To this end, it is important to focus on how every citizen, every company and every public authority – I am Brusselsish and I am not a priori concerned by a plan of relief, but I want to be in solidarity with others as a member of a public authority – can move forward in this direction. This may take the form of work with DRMs. In order to avoid waste-taking plans – and that is your will, Madam Secretary of State, like that of the government – it is absolutely necessary to reduce consumption during peaks. That is why we need to think about a single communication about the measures that each of us and every public authority could take. These requests come from Brussels, which is not targeted – apart from a municipality.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u87	Madam President, I begin with the port of Ghent. I am obviously unable to tell you why the port of Ghent. Did I make the choice to put the port of Ghent in it? The answer is obviously no, mevrouw Temmerman. On this point, I believe that if you wish, in relation to specific questions, to be justified, I repeat the example of the port of Ghent, since it has been cited. I think it is necessary at some point to ask the question to the one who applied this ministerial decree in Elia. I do not think that the legal service of the SPF Economy, despite its high quality, will be able, from above – I do not know if you see the extent of Belgium and the reality, the 97,000 cabins, and behind the 97,000 cabins, there is everything else. Moreover, we do not have this information, it is the GRD – to go determine up to the last quarter, see if it corresponds well to the decree, especially in relation to the port. A second point on the order. We can obviously have an endless legal debate. It is also for this reason that I have asked the Legal Service of the SPF Economie for an opinion. Some will read it one way, others will read it the other way. What I find is that there is a by-law that contains two articles and then there are five pages of appendices. The decree provides for and speaks of "the discharge plan", "the" and not "the", with effectively, in the annexes, separate chapters, with indeed different circumstances, i.e. in practice the circumstances where there is an automatic discharge and those where there is a manual discharge. I would like to point out that, in terms of the activation of this release plan, when it is automatic, we go from slice 1 to slice 6; when it is a manual trigger, we go from slice 6 to slice 1. This is not in the decree! I'm saying right now, don't look. The article is in the appendices on trigger 1-6 or 6-1. That's something we decided on somewhere to try to be fair. We can sneeze infinity. There is a release plan, which is actually defined in the appendices with different circumstances, the only objective of which is to avoid blackout. This goal is extremely important. Otherwise it will be for everyone and for a long time. However, it only concerns a number of citizens for a period of two hours. One can imagine that next year there are two completely different discharge plans. It will then be necessary to change the decree, which provides for a single discharge plan. We have to ask ourselves how this will happen for the mayors and governors if we have two completely different planes, with different cabins, different high voltage posts. The municipalities will be affected differently. The Legal Service will advise us on this. I note that in the order, there is a reference to a single release plan and different circumstances. As regards the calculation methods and the way in which the percentages are calculated, I would point out that for certain areas there is an absolute need not to include them in the discharge zones. I don't have in my firm a hundred engineers able to control Elia's work. I imagine that the ministers who preceded me have trusted and relied on Elia's expertise in this area. Madam President, I agree with what you have said on the Community side. I won't come back on it. Finally, in terms of production, what is left of us as a lever to avoid this waste disposal plan? For the following winters, a series of construction sites are under way. They will need to be speeded up and strengthened. We must ensure that we have the entire strategic reserve: 850 MW is vital. As for the second lever in production, it concerns all the efforts expected from suppliers. They're working on it. I obviously have contacts with them to make sure this is moving forward. All the hundreds of megawatts that we can recover will allow us to avoid unloading. The same applies to measures to reduce consumption. They say it's easy. If you consider that the administrations work like penguins, I won't follow you. They keep working on this case, and it's not that simple. At first, I thought that highway lighting would be great. Of course, we must weigh the pros and cons in terms of security. That'll give us a lot of megawatts. They have done the calculation: it is not so simple, because it gives 14 MW over the whole of Belgium. They have taken all the scenarios and assumptions on which we can work in terms of reducing energy consumption. Work has progressed well. We must thank the administrations for that. There is also the question of buildings, particularly public buildings. This can be an interesting capital, to be completed by all promotional lighting. Without it, there will be no impact in terms of reduction. Secondly, the second part concerns awareness-raising among citizens. All communication media are now refined. Global communications will be well organized. I can't be clearer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u88	There are four requests for hearings, as you know: Elia, Electrabel, FEBEG and CREG. I think that Elia, in view of the current debate, is the urgency. So, either we get it again this Thursday afternoon, or it'll be next week. Next week, of course, we'll have Electrabel, FEBEG and CREG. I look forward to your feedback on these proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u89	The priorities you put forward are correct, with a hearing with Elijah on Thursday. However, I would like to insist on the presence of the Secretary of State at that committee meeting, so that Elia cannot say at that meeting that it was agreed with the Secretary of State, while the information differs from the information provided today. I think a meeting with Elijah and the Secretary of State on Thursday would be a good idea. I would also like to call for a hearing with Electrabel, as soon as possible, at the beginning of next week, and then the CREG and FEBEG can clearly connect.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u90	Do other colleagues want to speak? [[No]] Minister, can you be present Thursday afternoon or represented by one of your collaborators?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u91	In any case, the firm will be represented. Either I come myself, but I have something else on my calendar, or I get represented.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u92	Madam President, I do not want to interfere with Mrs Fonck's agenda, but I would like to insist on her presence. Madam Secretary of State, given the assertiveness of your group regarding the hearing with Elijah and the obvious abuses between Elijah and yourself, I think it is really important for you to be here on Thursday.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-16-54-commissie-ic005x.u93	We will contact Electrabel, FEBEG and CREG for an audition next week, either Tuesday or Wednesday afternoon. I thank the ministers. I also thank the governors for having come to see us on an exceptional basis. Maybe we'll see you again if it's necessary.
