ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, after discussion with the Chairman of the Committee on the Interior, we are going to propose how to work this afternoon. There are many people and this is understandable given the subject. There will be a presentation by the Secretary of State and the Minister, whom I thank for being here. They will give us objective, clear, concrete measures to address the many legitimate questions that arise on two key issues on our agenda: nuclear safety and security of supply. The texts submitted by the Secretary of State and the Minister will be distributed to you. A first round of talks would be held after the presentations. One person per group would intervene. The Secretary of State and the Minister could then respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to catch up with the debate, there is Mrs Lalieux's proposal that one person should be spokesperson or spokesperson per group, and that we should limit these statements to ten minutes, without, however, weighing up the time allocated on a pharmacist's scale. The replies of the Secretary of State and the Minister will follow. After that there is a free time space in which everyone can take the floor. Then we'll see. If, from the outset, we can structure the debate by giving everyone ten minutes of speaking time per group, then we can help and get the debate moving.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u3	Of course, to conclude the meeting, we will discuss the order of business with a view to preparing possible hearings for the coming weeks. Do we agree on the working method?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u4	You mentioned the speaking of the groups. I assume that parties that do not yet form one will be able to express themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u5	Of course, you will also have the floor. The turn of speech will, moreover, be organised according to the importance of the parties, as we do in plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u6	Madam President, after the first round, will it be possible to continue the discussion if elements are not communicated?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u7	There'll be a first round. The Minister and the Secretary of State will respond. Secondly, as my colleague Bracke said, the discussion can continue. Other members may intervene. We want specific answers from the Minister and the Secretary of State. Without further delay, I shall give the floor to Secretary of State Catherine Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u8	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to welcome the initiative taken by the chairmen of these committees. This enables parliamentarians to be presented with the overall situation and the measures that have been taken and are being strengthened today. In addition, this gives the opportunity for the Minister of the Interior and myself, in tandem, to clearly present the strategy. Indeed, as you know, some skills are shared. I can assure you that the Energy and Interior departments are working together, in collaboration with the network managers, to set up, test and improve tools and procedures to deal with the situation. I would also like to thank these various departments for all the work they have done, on which they are constantly working. As a reminder, when Electrabel announced the postponement of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 safety test results scheduled for June 2014, Melchior Wathelet had already made it clear at that time that security of supply could not be guaranteed and that additional information would be provided in September on tools and procedures under development since winter 2012-2013 to reduce the risk of shortages and manage their consequences. It must be noted that there has not been much reaction to this announcement. Then came the episode of Objective 4 and a small political game was set up to give the impression that the situation had changed completely and nothing was planned in Belgium. That's totally wrong. The situation was already serious due to the non-availability of Target 3 and Tihange 2. This was announced. In addition, Belgium has instruments and new adequate procedures. Is there a risk of shortage for this winter? The answer is yes. The reason for this is that incidents occurred in three of Belgium's largest production units. This type of situation is obviously unpredictable. Any country facing the unavailability of 25% of its production capacity would be in a difficult situation. If we only wake up today, we would find ourselves in a catastrophic situation; this is not the case: we did not wait for Doel 4 to put in place various measures. The risk therefore exists, but it is largely mitigated by the measures taken over the past two years. It will be even more so through provisions gradually reinforced by the administrations. Some talk about chaos, but this is by no means the case. It is obvious that everything would be easier and more comfortable without the problem of simultaneous unavailability of Doel 3, Doel 4 and Tihange 2. Nevertheless, I will show you that we are ready and perfectly capable of managing. What is the state of supply for the coming winter? As a reminder, the Act of 26 March 2014 establishes a strategic reserve for the winter period from 1 November to 31 March. Before that, there was no legal definition. In addition, no plant should be shut down during that period. Statistically, the most difficult times for the electrical system are the months of January and February. The Law of 26 March 2014 also determines the scarcity and the statistical indications to be used to estimate the level of security of supply. The analysis of the winter 2014-2015 is complex, because there are several uncertainties for the coming winter period. What about the reboot of Target 3 and Tihange 2? Electrabel talks about ending the report in the autumn, but what's the timing afterwards? What about rebooting Target 4? That would not happen before December. Three hypotheses have been studied: 1. Doel 3, Tihange 2, Doel 4 are in order: the necessary 800 megawatt strategic reserve has been set up. For information, the full analysis of Elias is available on the website of DG Energy. In this case, security of supply is obviously guaranteed because, as you know, the strategic reserve is being set up. 2. Doel 3 and Tihange 2 are not started: the strategic reserve then required is 1,200 to 2,100 megawatts according to the analysis of Elia which is available on DG Energy's website. At that time, supply cannot be guaranteed because the volume of strategic reserve cannot reach that level. 3. Doel 3, Doel 4 and Tihange 2 are unavailable. In this case, the strategic reserve requirement was not estimated. Indeed, the incident has just occurred at Doel 4, but it is necessarily greater than the range of 1,200 to 2,100 megawatts. Elia's analyses take into account – I insist – the impact of the deactivation of Doel 1 (433 megawatts), which is scheduled for 15 February 2015 and the gradual reduction of its production until that date. As a result, strategic reserve requirements could be reduced in reality based on a possible restart of one or more nuclear units. This means that, without the unforeseen events that have just occurred, security of supply was guaranteed, particularly through the new strategic reserve mechanisms. Recent events remind us that security of supply is not an exact science that can be calculated by comparing a given production capacity with a given level of consumption. Everything is a matter of probability: the probability of an incident occurring in the power stations or on the network, the likelihood of producing wind energy, the likelihood of importing and the likelihood of having a certain level of consumption. The Electricity Act determines a level of risk probability under which security of supply is considered to be guaranteed. In the event of the non-availability of three nuclear reactors, the risk of a shortage of electricity in Belgium would be higher than the level laid down in the Electricity Act. Despite everything, and even if the exercise can only be illustrative, I will give you, with caution, some figures. What can be expected for the winter of 2014-15 in terms of peak consumption? It has been estimated at 13,470 megawatts. If you're interested, I can give you the peaks of previous years. It is on the basis of these figures that we draw up estimates. I'm not saying that there will be an ex officio peak of consumption. Any expert is unable to tell if there will be 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4. We don't know. But, potentially, there could be this type of consumption peak. Next to this, the capacity for the winter of 2014-15 is 20,006 megawatts. According to what distribution? In non-intermittent, we have 10,746 megawatts, taking into account what we do not have and what will be unavailable (Doel 3, Doel 4 and Tihange 2). In intermittent mode, we have 4,930 megawatts (1,850 for wind and 3,080 for solar). In interconnection, 3,500 megawatts. And there is also the strategic reserve of 850 megawatts. This is the totality of capacity: own production, imports and strategic reserve. When you observe nothing but Belgian production capacity, you have a capacity to produce 15,676 megawatts. But if there is a peak in winter – mostly between 5:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. – solar energy cannot be used. The 3,080 megawatts of solar energy must therefore be removed. This makes us, at the forefront, a production of 12,596 megawatts for a peak consumption at 13,470. However, in the event of zero wind production, our own production capacity would then be 10,746 MW. If the absence of sun is combined with the absence of wind, the activation of the entire remaining production stock is insufficient to cover the peak consumption. However, our ability to import must be taken into account. As I said earlier, we can go up to 3,500 MW. In the case of an import of 2,000 MW, we will be able to balance supply and demand. If Belgium imports 3,500 MW, even in the absence of wind and sun, this will result in a small surplus of production capacity to which we can add the 850 MW strategic reserve. Attention, that is an illustrative but simplistic reasoning. The Belgian supply will depend 15 minutes per quarter on the level of consumption, on the production of wind power, on the actual availability of the Belgian non-intermittent production park and on Elia's own resources to ensure network balance. That is the problem of security of supply. Belgium has 20 000 megawatts for this winter, through the production park, strategic reserves and imports, but that is not enough to cover a peak demand of nearly 14 000 megawatts. Nor can we predict exactly how big the peak will be. What is a shortage? How do we detect it? How do we manage it? The electricity market is characterised by very different time horizons. It is possible to buy electricity today for in 3 years, for in 3 months, for in a week, for in a day, even for in an hour. The closer we get to time T, the better the production and consumption forecasts, and the more transactions take place on the market to balance production and consumption. We are talking about the risk of shortages, when at J-7 we find a risk that the estimated level of consumption cannot be covered by the supply available on the market, the interconnection and the management of demand included. A shortage is most likely (or bad luck) to occur in winter between 5:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. This is obviously the time of the day when the peak of consumption is highest. The colder it is, the more consumption is on the rise while solar production is already zero. But it is at the end of the day at J-1 that we can really begin to accurately estimate the risk of shortage. At the time of T there is a deficit if the market supply cannot meet the level of demand. The market has been liberalised. It is therefore up to the market to meet demand through production, import and demand management. However, there is a risk that the market will not fulfil its role. As Secretary of State, I have taken measures to manage deficits in various steps: detection, production, analysis, decision-making and communication in the event of a shortage, supply action, demand action and action on the network. A well-identified procedure is applicable in the event of a shortage. Earlier, Madam and Mr President, you mentioned the document that will be distributed to you; you will have the opportunity to read it at your ease and to ask your questions. I will allow myself not to describe the whole of this procedure. It was carried out jointly by the departments of Energy and Interior. It is based on a permanent monitoring of Elias, which seems essential since it detects a risk at J-7. There are two procedures in place for the threat of shortages and actual shortages. In the event of a threat of shortage, the procedure consists of 8 phases: in phase 1, detection; in phase 2, notification; in phase 3, preparation of crisis consultation; in phase 4, crisis consultation; in phase 5, communication of decisions taken; in phase 6, coordination of measures and information of the population; in phase 7, follow-up and, finally, in phase 8, transition to a normal phase. Each phase provides for stakeholders, how to react at the federal level, the responsibilities of each, the direction of operations, the need to involve the Regions and in what area, the work of the administrations, the burdens of the crisis centre. This is done jointly by the administrations. This procedure is therefore perfectly designed. I'll leave it to you for reading, if you wish. There is also a procedure in case of effective scarcity with a phase of detection and then with almost similar phases.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Indeed, given the short lead times, it is important to speed up certain consultation meetings. I would like to turn to the measures that have been taken and are being strengthened by the government to deal with a possible shortage. The first level of intervention, beyond detection, is the activation of the strategic reserve. It's the supply work. It is a first tool and, it should be recalled, it is the first time this year that a strategic reserve has been planned by my predecessor and that it is being set up with a capacity of 850 megawatts, both on gas power plants (Seraing and Vilvorde) – parliamentarians who regularly follow the work of this committee have already been informed of this strategic reserve – and on interruptible customers. This measure obviously has no impact on the consumer, given the direct increase in supply. The second type of intervention is always supply-driven and import-oriented. Elia's capacity is 3,500 megawatts. The third type of intervention relates to measures to reduce consumption. In this case, we're working on the demand. This work is under way within the administration, including on the basis of positive experiences carried out abroad. Three scarcity risks have been identified for these measures: small, moderate and large. Depending on the level of risk, the corresponding measures will be activated in terms of socio-economic impact. Three domains are being studied. Firstly, how can we sensitise consumers to reduce energy consumption, by analogy with water consumption in the event of drought? Secondly, the use of electrified public transport is being examined. The third part of the research is devoted to buildings and lighting. Work is scheduled to be completed by the end of October. A great potential can be realised quickly, namely 1 000 megawatts, but we have no experience of the response of Belgian consumers to a awareness campaign in this area. I come to the following point: action on the grid with the manual activation of the shutdown plan. Shutdown is a measure to maintain balance in order to prevent a blackout. Switching off can be done in two ways: automatic or manual. An automatic shutdown occurs in the event of a sudden incident on the net and occurs immediately via the automatic frequency relays installed in some places of the Elianet. A manual shutdown may occur when a risk of scarcity is identified. Energy and Economic Ministers shall decide, on the basis of a procedure in the event of a shortage of electricity, which disk will be switched off at what time if the activation of the strategic reserve and the measures to reduce consumption are not sufficient to ensure balance on the grid. The switch-off plan consists of six discs each representing a consumption of 500 megawatts. Each disk covers a number of zones, spread throughout the territory. This release plan was drawn up by Elia on the basis of the criteria set out in the Ministerial Decree of 3 June 2005. It is, of course, subject to adjustments, often minor, on the basis of developments in the network and consultations with distribution system operators in order to comply with technical and legal requirements. This, of course, must be in line with the 2005 Ministerial Order. Have we ever used automatic unloading in Belgium? Yes, it was already activated on November 4, 2006. Following an incident in northern Germany, 5,200 megawatts were injured in France and 800 megawatts in Belgium. That helped avoid a blackout. The entire network was restored in about an hour and these countries returned to normal in two hours. This was done completely blindly. As you understand it, today the procedure has been substantially changed. This is no longer done blindly in the event of a risk of shortage. The procedure is planned. Thanks to the procedure in the event of a risk of scarcity, it is possible to anticipate the need to activate the switch-off plan manually and to communicate the information to municipalities, citizens and social and economic actors so that they can take the necessary measures. You will understand, everything is done upstream of the removal plan to avoid this removal. We only consider it as a last resort. The procedure, it is true, has been changed. In this regard, I can assure you that, without all the measures taken in the last two years, not only would the risk of resorting to discharge have been much higher than they are today, but the conditions of discharge would also have been disastrous. They would have been done blindly, without follow-up, without prior information and with a much greater impact on people. For information, some regions around the world are accustomed to demand reduction measures and the risk of relief. They regularly actuate the discharge. This is the case in Brittany and also in California. They do so not in winter but in summer because of the use of air conditioning and its effect on consumption. What is the situation with regard to short- and long-term supply? In the short term for the winter of 2015-2016, when Objective 3, Tihange 2 and Objective 4 are re-launched, security of supply for the next winter can be ensured by adjusting the volume of the strategic reserve with a view to the closure of the gas plant that is foreseen after this and for the next winter. If these plants were not re-launched, additional measures would be needed. The AD Energy has set up a working group in which Elia and the CREG participate to analyse whether it is technically and legally feasible to initiate a procedure, in order to obtain temporary additional production capacity, for example by generators. The cost aspect is also analysed. The results of this working group will be communicated by the administration to the future Energy Minister. That's for 2015-2016. I come to the medium-term period 2016-2021. The government did not limit itself to dealing with this issue in the short week. Over the past two years, action has been taken. In addition, he anticipated beyond next winter. In terms of energy policy, for example with the increase in interconnection capacity, a clear objective has been set for Elia. The aim is not only to guarantee the 3,500 MW, but also to obtain an additional 1,000 MW for 2018. It is also the attraction of new gas production capacity thanks to the invitation to tender launched by Melchior Wathelet. The case was closed last July. Three tenders were submitted. The objective is indeed to obtain an additional production of 800 to 900 MW. I am also thinking of the evolution of renewable production and cogeneration. This competence is regional, except for offshore wind – 500 MW – and "atoll" in the North Sea – 1000 MW more. The development of the production stock linked to the Belgian zone must also be recalled. There is also the long-term situation, in particular from 2022 onwards. It will depend on whether investments in additional capacity can be attracted in a timely manner. Such investments are necessary to cover the closure of nuclear reactors between 2022 and 2025. The situation will also depend on the ability of the public authorities to take the necessary corrective measures in time to ensure that these investments are made. The current government has confirmed the principle of the core exit by 2025. We have taken the first steps to achieve a new energy mix based on renewable energy, flexible production, demand management, interconnections and storage. I would like to summarize and conclude briefly. I repeat, and transparently, there is a risk of a shortage for this winter, caused by the combination of two major and unpredictable events. However, this risk is mitigated because it is anticipated. For the first time, a government has put in place complementary market tools to ensure security of supply, including the strategic reserve. If the risk materializes, and if a shortage occurs, Belgium, from the federal state to local entities, will be prepared to anticipate and deal with this risk as it has never been before. The government will have at its disposal a series of measures that can be activated depending on the shortage it is expected to face, whether it is a small shortage or a larger one, depending on winter conditions. We continue to work hard to ensure that everything is perfectly ready for this winter. We also anticipated for the following winters. And this is particularly important. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Mr President, thank you. It is in consultation and continuity that my colleague Melchior Wathelet will discuss all the management of the discharge and the consequences of a possible discharge, in parallel and in connection with the Crisis Centre. It will also address all nuclear safety issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the pure energy risk in which a shortage of electricity threatens the proper functioning of the Belgian electrical system and the electricity supply of the country is managed by the authorities and the actors responsible for the functioning of the electricity market. That was just explained by Mrs. Fonck. The risk and its management were explained. In the event that these measures are not applied in time or prove insufficient, the Ministers of Economy and Energy may instruct Elia to suspend the connections with some categories of customers connected to the network. A number of zones are geographically distributed throughout Belgium, for a limited period of electricity supply. As a shortage of electricity may necessitate the activation of the switch-off plan and thus distort the supply of electricity, a shortage of electricity also entails risks to the proper functioning of the country's socio-economic life and thus to the maintenance of public order, civil security and public health. Preparing the necessary public policy and civil security measures, as well as coordinating the inter-departmental and inter-sectoral approach, is the responsibility of the Minister for the Interior. That is exactly what I will try to explain. Before I present these planning elements to you, I would like to take stock of nuclear power plants with regard to safety and security. Then I will move on to these different elements. There are two different situations that need to be separated. The first, the situation of Doel 3 and Tihange 2. The second one, Doel 4. These three plants are at present stationary but each for different situations. You know the situation of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 – I am referring to the Members of the Energy Committee, some of whom I am pleased to see today. We've talked a lot about it. This was also discussed in the previous Committee on the Interior. These plants have already been shut down for the first time in 2012 following the discovery of defects within tanks. After many tests, based on a report by international experts, the Federal Nuclear Safety Agency (FCSA) which, I suppose, will be part of the next hearings in the coming weeks - I don't imagine you are doing it - authorized the restart in 2013 with a number of requirements. However, both reactors had to be shut down in 2014 following additional tests requested again by the Agency. In fact, the tests had not been conclusive as to the evolution of the defect indications and the extreme conditions. The results of the new tests are expected in the fall. At this point, I have no additional information. Like you, I've read a number of things. Like you, I've heard a number of things. The only thing I can tell you is that none of this has been confirmed to me by any of the actors who are supposed to submit reports and make conclusions on this matter. Not in one direction, not in the other. Today, I am not in a position to give you any report, an official Agency document that concludes that they cannot restart or that they can restart. The problem with Doel 4 is totally different in nature. This is not a nuclear safety issue. This is a failure in turbines outside of nuclear installations per se. Today, Doel 4 cannot work. Target 4 cannot function. Target 3 and Tihange 2 must not function. For Francophones, this is a fine example of the difference between kunnen and mogen. On the other hand, the technical problem is, of course, extremely serious. The operator cannot move forward today with any specific dates for the return to service. In any case, we know that it will not take place until 31 December. However, this does not mean that the plant will be operational again in January! As far as the origin of the breakdown is concerned, all I can tell you at the moment is that the operator has filed a complaint against X and that an investigation has been opened by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. I can of course only wait until the end of the investigation to be able to communicate to you more information about the events related to Doel 4. However, to the extent that an act of sabotage is suspected - yes, as you do, I read the press... - even if it does not directly concern the nuclear site, I immediately asked the competent services to consider any measures of reinforcement. This has been done, in particular by the operator himself and by the Agency. Of course, since the aim is to avoid sabotage, I will not disclose to you the measures that are being taken. You will easily understand why! However, some of the press releases emanate from the Agency, with a view to increasing the level of security at the Doel 4 site. I would also like to tell you that within this government, even in day-to-day affairs, I have taken the initiative to form a working group that meets periodically. It includes members of the cabinets of the Interior, Justice and Foreign Affairs. The Prime Minister is also involved, of course. The objective is to exchange the various information related to the safety of Doel 4. Let me turn to the initiatives taken by the Crisis Centre to prepare us for a possible crisis situation in terms of electricity supply. In general, I've heard a lot of disaster talk. But the news is rather reassuring. Indeed, Belgium is finally in a position to anticipate any supply problem. As the Secretary of State has just pointed out, we have made every effort to maximize production, to make as much use of interconnection as possible and to reduce demand in the most drastic way possible if this is not enough. If this reduction in demand is not enough either to rebalance supply and demand – and you know as well as I do that electricity is a very special product – it is the entire network that could really be put in trouble. Yes, if one perceives a problem of imbalance between supply and demand on the electricity grid, it is better to relieve it, i.e. to reduce consumption in a binding way in certain places. In fact, failure to react in this way would put the entire network in trouble, which would plunge the whole of Belgium into darkness. It should therefore be understood that, from an electrical point of view, discharge is the ultimate measure of the procedure, but necessary to avoid blackout. It is common to observe confusion between these two notions: the removal consists of a moment of reduction of consumption in certain geographical areas, and this in a forced manner, in order to avoid blackout. In the absence of a reduction in production, the entire system would be in difficulty. Of course, a shortage is never pleasant: the power supply is completely blocked in places; nevertheless, this measure is necessary to avoid the complete blackout. One of the essential tasks of the FPS Home Affairs Crisis Centre is to anticipate potential risks and prepare emergency plans. Therefore, in cooperation with its partners, both at local, regional and federal level, the crisis centre has been working on this risk and preparing for its management for some time. It is important to distinguish several works, on the one hand, the preparation of a general national emergency plan, in the event of a large-scale electricity failure. We must react to a technical problem and not to anticipate a production failure. If at any time, whether on the grid or at the power plant level, a disaster occurs, emergency response is required. This is the first competence of the Crisis Centre, but it is not the one that we are going to talk about today, but the specific preparation related to a problem of shortage. As Mrs Fonck has just explained, how can we anticipate this lack? The procedure has just been explained to you. If this lack occurs, how can we best respond to it in order to generate as few problems as possible against citizens? The overall emergency plan for power outages has received the full attention of the Crisis Centre. In this context, the latter carried out an impact assessment in the event of a power outage by consulting a range of sectors (energy sectors, financial sectors, prison system, industrial sector, health care, agricultural sectors, mobility sectors, telecommunications, water supply sectors, etc.). to collect information on the impact of a problem or difficulty in the supply of electricity in relation to all these sectors. Secondly, there are a series of agreements, notifications and alerts in relation to Elia. It is Elia who warns seven days before a problem of shortage arises. It is essential that this information be obtained directly from the Crisis Centre in order to take immediate and appropriate action. Thirdly, it is necessary to study the impact of a power outage and the resulting domino effect in the different regions of the country. I would also like to say that the Governors have been systematically informed of the progress of the work through the presence of the Crisis Centre at the conference of governors and through the consultation platform of the National Crisis Centre and emergency planning services. The work resulted in a national contingency plan that was presented to the Council of Ministers on 17 May 2013 and then forwarded in writing to the various federal ministers concerned, to the Ministers-Presidents of the three Regions and to the federal public services concerned and to the governors. Today, the risk of a shortage of electricity is obviously horrendously amplified by the unavailability of a significant part of our production capacity. It is clear that in Belgium our security of supply was essentially based on the total availability of nuclear power, which was believed to be infallible. This myth is, to say the least, shaken. That can be said. What some claimed to be fully available is currently unavailable. This unavailability concerns 50% of the nuclear stock in Belgium. 50% is totally unavailable. For how long? We don't even know that. Even today, I'm not in a position to make any judgement on the matter. That is what we are talking about today: the unavailability of what some thought was most available. At the end of September 2012, the crisis centre was informed by Elia that, as a result of the closure of Objective 3 and Tihange 2, the first closure of those two plants was at an increased risk of electricity scarcity for the winter of 2012-2013. Based on its responsibility in this area, in 2012 and 2013, the Crisis Centre took a number of initiatives aimed at improving the management of electricity scarcity and, more specifically, at ensuring individual and collective security in case of activation of the switch-off plan. At that time, the Crisis Centre took a series of initiatives. I'm not going to mention it all, but there's a lot of them. Awareness of local authorities: 3 October 2012, 7 October 2012, 20 November 2012. There is then a report at the level of TSOs (transmission system operators). On this basis, the Crisis Centre once again held a meeting with all partners on 13 December 2012. Afterwards, local emergency planning tools were also developed. For example, the crisis centre has set up a secure website to provide the necessary information on emergency planning to local entities. For the benefit of local authorities, numerous fact sheets and information documents have been prepared and made available on the website. In order to better orient emergency planning, the crisis centre has also set up a cooperation with Synergrid, the federation of electricity and natural gas grid operators in Belgium, to map the geographical impact of the electricity switch-off plan developed by Elia. As you can see, on many occasions the local entities, Synergrid and the partners of the Crisis Centre have been informed. Also on this basis, a working group was established between the Crisis Centre and the government's emergency planning services. It met three times between January and March 2013 to clarify some of the issues related to emergency planning and to conclude collective agreements. The same communication strategy was then developed between all these partners. After the risk period of the winter 2012-2013 and after the re-launch of both nuclear power plants in May 2013, the crisis centre continued to invest in the development of emergency planning related to this risk. On 6 and 7 June 2013, Elia, the Crisis Centre and the FPS Economy organised an evaluation session to identify the strengths and weaknesses of emergency planning. In 2013, an emergency planning guide was drawn up by the crisis centre for local authorities. In 2013 and 2014, the crisis centre gave a presentation on emergency planning in the event of a power disruption on four different information days for local emergency planning. In order to further refine the information related to the geographical impact of Elia's exit plan and to eliminate a number of uncertainties, the crisis center with Synergrid has launched a new project. This is very important. Why? This new project involves developing a new map of Elia's exit plan. This also means that such a map did not exist in Belgium for the existence of this government. To draw up this map, Synergrid provided the geographical location of the low- and medium-voltage cabs of the public electricity transmission and distribution networks in Belgium and information on their involvement in the switching plan of the electricity transmission network. This map shall be drawn up exclusively with the aim of supporting public authorities in carrying out their policy tasks in the areas of risk analysis, emergency planning, crisis management and business continuity. However, the level of detail of this map will not allow to determine whether it falls into the impact zone at the level of a building or a street. On 11 July 2014, the crisis centre, together with the intervention services, the ASTRID SA and various actors in the electricity sector, organised an exercise of the National Emergency Plan for a large scale electricity span. Obviously, on 2 June 2014, the Crisis Centre was informed of the first results of an analysis carried out by Elia on the impact of the renewal of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 power stations on the guarantee of supply. On 3 June 2014, the Crisis Centre informed the governors' emergency planning services of this information through its consultation platform. On 2 July, the Crisis Centre took stock of the situation at the Governing Council Conference. A new working group was established between the Crisis Centre and the Governors' Emergency Planning Service to coordinate and harmonize the various emergency planning initiatives. It has met twice, and a third meeting is scheduled for 27 August. On Wednesday, 20 August, I decided to distribute the new map showing the geographical impact of the Elia relief plan at the September 3 governors' conference. Finally, we will be able to know the geographical consequences associated with the removal of Elias, and to know, if we remove them, which regions of the country are affected. If we are to prevent regions from being affected, we need to know where they are. And that we were unable to say. I will participate in this meeting so that all communication and dissemination of this information can be done in the most optimal way. It goes without saying that current events are encouraging us to continue and intensify this work. The governors and mayors, as well as the National Crisis Centre, will be expected in the coming months to further analyse the potential risks, concreteise the preparations in the field and make the necessary arrangements with all relevant actors. However, despite these preparatory and coordinating initiatives currently being taken from the Interior by the governors, mayors and the Secretary of State for Energy, an efficient approach to this risk also requires the active involvement of every minister, every public service and every socio-economic sector. The emergency crisis management plan is basically a collective responsibility in which everyone is responsible for risk assessment, for the subsequent preventive policy and for preparing reactive measures within their own area of competence. Especially for a risk such as disruption of electricity supply, it is essential to make a joint effort to avoid a shortage of electricity and, if necessary, manage a period of shutdown. It is, therefore, from this vision of collegiality, cooperation, shared responsibility and solidarity that the national emergency plan "electricity panne of great magnitude" was presented to the Council of Ministers in 2013. I will therefore, in cooperation with my colleague in charge of Energy, take further initiatives to further develop cooperation between all the authorities involved and to ensure a proper transfer of this dossier to the new government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u10	Mr Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we first examine who will speak on behalf of the various parties in the first instance. For the N-VA I know that Mr Wollants will do so. Mr Thiébaut will speak for the PS. Mr Clarinval will speak on behalf of the MR. For CD&V, that is Mrs Dierick and for Open Vld Mrs Ceysens. Mrs Jiroflée and Mr Calvo for Ecolo-Green spoke for the sp.a. On behalf of the cdH, Mrs Matz takes the floor and on behalf of the Flemish Interest Mrs Pas. The PTB is represented by Mr Van Hees. No one asks for the floor for the FDF, which is not a problem. Mr Wollants, you have the floor. Everyone gets, as agreed, a ten-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u11	Mr Minister, Madam Secretary of State, first of all I would like to thank you for the presentation. That does not alter the fact that we are concerned about the current events. The newspapers are full of possible consequences and no one can tell us if we can make it through the winter. That is not clear today either. There is a major threat of impact on our economic fabric, so it is right that many citizens are asking questions about it. The issue is not new: we have discussed security of supply on a number of occasions. Many bodies have pointed out to politicians for many years before I was a member of Parliament, that there are problems in this area due to the lack of an energy policy. Government after government has concentrated on not producing electricity, not using nuclear power or coal anymore. What had to be done was far from clear. Even now, some people's reflexes were how we wouldn't solve the problem. I think it would be wise to consider how we can guarantee supplies. Energy policy is not made in the playground. A harsh verdict or a bitchy interview every now and then doesn't help us move forward. Over the past few years, our margin has fallen. Recently we discussed how much 3 gigawatts means in our energy production capacity. In the past, it was also a smaller share. If the entire margin is lost, a closure of Target 4 is fatal. Many have told us that it would not be this fast and that we would get there. We have discussed this repeatedly over the past year. One then bears a crushing responsibility. It is correct that a number of measures have been taken. The overview of the last two years was given. What, however, has happened in the last 11 years? What's happened since the decision on the core exit? On the energy front, we have slipped and become, to some extent, a developing country. More than that, we're still threatening to slip. I understand the concerns of businesses and families. I'm getting calls from civilians, even from mayors, to find out exactly what the situation is today. No one knows exactly what the shutdown plan looks like. Some refer to the 2012 plan. Others say they can't do anything because the final plan is not available. This is causing even more concern. We have to do something about this. A number of governors have taken action, which I welcome. A number of others are waiting for instructions from the government on exactly what to communicate. That confusion has to be eliminated. I believe that the municipalities should be able to carry out their risk analysis now. A great deal is expected of the municipalities. I read in a number of documents that there is a need for great autonomy and self-reliance on all administrations. Well, let us enable those people to prepare for that situation in the best way possible. Further delay means in itself that our resilience will be reduced and that we will be less able to cope with the consequences. We know that traffic lights will no longer work, we will no longer consider opening, we will no longer be able to heat buildings and we will have to be protected by local police. That is all in front of us, and few of us know how to deal with it today. This situation cannot last. A second point is that every effort must be made to avoid this cut-off. The Secretary of State has listed a number of measures. We must be able to avoid that peak. The measures to be taken must also be clarified, because they will have a huge impact on our socio-economic fabric. I am thinking, for example, of what your predecessor has launched, in particular to eliminate the lighting on the motorways during rush hour. This is a measure which will indeed save a lot of energy, but at the same time we will have to refrain from putting it into practice, because it involves a lot of risk derivatives and we must be well aware of them. I have not heard the small proposals of a number of government members such as bicolating with a 15 km cable here. Can you tell me whether that proposal is still in the plan, or whether it testified to a slightly too far-reaching simplism? I think that we should take this seriously, because people are saying that such proposals would be the solution, shows little respect. It is my opinion that a long-term vision for energy should be set in motion. It is an important task that the next government will have to take on. Long-term choices should have been made that have not yet been made. In 2022, we will have to look at the power stations, but in the meantime everyone knows that a power station today will not be there in five years. The tendered plants should be operational by 2017 or 2018. I wish those concerned every success, because that will not be easy. In recent years, we have learned something about electricity supply and about market conditions. We know that none of the technology is blissful. There is little investment except in wind and solar energy, but that does not help us out of that need. The last time we stood close to a blackout dates back to January 13, 2013. The time before that dates from 8 February 2012. Then we saw that the imput of sun and wind together was 50 megawatts when more than 13,000 megawatts were asked. This means that an energy system must contain everything, i.e. renewable energy as well as energy from other power stations and interconnection, in order to ensure reduced and distributed consumption and flexibility. All these elements should have been discussed in 2004 instead of 2014. Finally, the situations in Objective 4 must never happen again. We must at all costs avoid the possibility of people with bad intentions crashing our power stations. This applies not only to Objective 4 or other nuclear power stations, but also to gas plants, transformers and drinking water facilities. Measures must be taken in this area. We know that the maintenance of a number of power stations involves a large number of external persons and that it is not easy to carry out checks on them. In my view, the ongoing investigation should not prevent us from taking far-reaching measures. I know that a number of measures have already been taken, but we must be sure that they are sufficiently broad and also cover other plants. After all, everyone knows that our strategic reserve will be very important in the coming winter and that no saboteurs should be attracted who now know that our very sensitive system of power supply is an attractive prey to strike again. This must be avoided at all costs. I have a number of specific questions which have already been addressed in part by Secretary of State Fonck. Quid with the communication about the shutdown plan? This has already been addressed, but my specific question is when the municipalities can prepare their measures in concrete terms. A meeting was announced on this subject. However, I believe that the municipalities should be supported in order to prepare themselves as quickly as possible. Can more clarity be given on the slopes being explored to prevent energy scarcity? I refer, for example, to the lighting on the motorways. It will certainly be necessary to prepare ourselves for this, and we must be well aware of that. We know that a number of gas turbines and so on will close.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u12	It's over. Finish with a question, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u13	Today we know more about the method used in Objective 4. I would like to hear how the sabotage was disguised, so that it was more difficult to check whether something had actually happened. What steps have been taken to prevent such incidents? Can you assure us that something like this will not happen again, not in Objective 4 and not anywhere else?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u14	Madam President, Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for the detailed explanations they have just given us during this holiday period. It is clear that today we are facing an exceptional situation, as Catherine Fonck and Melchior Wathelet have pointed out. Indeed, for the first time, we are suffering a 25% loss of our production capacity. This is huge: as the minister said, it corresponds to about 50% of our nuclear production. This has never been seen, which I believe was not predictable, and I'm thinking in particular of the Doel incident we've seen recently. Before I introduced myself here, I did not have the impression that the government's responsibility was to question this matter. After hearing your explanations, I find myself comforted in this idea: in my view, no criticism can be made of the government in this case. The government's responsibility is to react to concerns, and this is how it happened with Doel 4, and to anticipate problems as it did by creating this 850 MW reserve capacity. For the PS, the primary concern in the nuclear issue has always been safety: the safety of the population, the safety of workers and the protection of the environment. On this point, however, the government has demonstrated its ability to assume its responsibilities by stopping Doel 3 and Tihange 2 power plants as soon as they become aware of micro-crack problems. I can tell you that because I have analysed this issue in detail as a member of the Nuclear Sub-Committee since 2007. We interviewed Melchior Wathelet before the summer; he announced the release of the results of the additional tests for the fall. Perhaps it would be interesting to obtain more details on results and planning: the notion of autumn is rather vague. As for security of supply, I was a little more afraid before I had the explanation about the risk of blackout. I think Mrs Fonck's presentation was both alarming and sometimes reassuring, moving from one extreme to the next. At one point, I heard: "If there is no sun, if there is no wind, if we close the borders, there is a risk". It would still be a rather exceptional situation. So I'm still quite reassured by these new explanations. I took notes on the flight, but when I look at the notes that were distributed, maybe I will see the details of these consumptions and productions finer. In relation to the clearance areas, Mr. Wathelet said that it would soon be known exactly which municipalities would be affected if there was a need for relief. Information will therefore start, I suppose, from the Minister of the Interior to the governors and the governors to the communes. The mayors of the communes concerned will know that they may be in danger during the winter of receiving a message warning them that their commune will be affected by a discharge and therefore be without electricity for a certain period of time. But reporting may also have a small perverse effect. Shouldn't a townmaster of a municipality that is not in a waste-free zone make any effort because there are no risks? I think it is necessary, however, in the communication campaign that will be carried out in the coming weeks, to make some sense of solidarity between all the citizens of the country so that citizens who would not be affected by a risk of being relieved may make a small effort to reduce consumption if there is the risk. I think it is important to include this in the communication and dissemination of information by the Minister of the Interior. I insist that the mayors be really informed. It has been seen in the press, especially in yesterday's news newspaper: many mayors are concerned, especially in rural areas, and fear that they will be affected by a possible disaster. These municipalities need transparent information. Every effort must be made to ensure that the population does not give in to panic. If the truth is to be told, we must not be unnecessarily alarmist. In the coming days, it will be important to bring together the Committee on the Interior, the Sub-Committee on Nuclear Security to take stock of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 and a more technical and comprehensive assessment of the situation of Doel 4...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u15	Mr Thiébaut, as far as the order of business is concerned, we shall be discussing this point at the end of the committee. Don't hesitate to ask specific questions to the Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u16	But if I'm too precise, I might be too technical! That will be precisely the work of the committees that we will have planned at the end of our meeting. In short, we can be reassured. Of course, there is a risk, but we have not just woken up and work has already been done over the past two years to build up this reserve, which puts us safer, even if the risk has not completely disappeared.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u17	Mr President, I too would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the information they have provided us today. Measures have already been taken...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u18	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u19	Parliament must always set an example, Madam Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u20	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u21	Let us continue our work if you will!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u22	I was grateful to the Minister and the Secretary of State for the information they provided. I would just like to remind you of the importance of the energy issue. That is why, in this case, a pragmatic attitude should be adopted, not an ideological one. My questions will revolve around four axes. The first part concerns the Minister of the Interior. With regard to the closure of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors, as Mr Thiébaut pointed out, we had obtained a lot of information a few months ago in the Nuclear Sub-Committee. What's new in this file? Indeed, we now seem to discover that there are problems for these two reactors. What, then, does the studies conducted on the viroles that are being tested for the time being provide? For Doel 4, the problem is quite different. Could you give us any information about the investigation? Who's driving it exactly? Is there any idea of the measures taken by the State Security and possibly the Federal Police? I will ask the Secretary of State my other three questions. By January 2013, we had already suffered a first problematic situation. At the time, I had reported that interruptible contracts had been implemented. It was a form of relief, since we had reached a critical situation. Subsequently, the government set up this strategic reserve of 800 MW, but obviously without the closure of Doel 4, which has occurred since then. In one of its reports, the Energy Administration points out that this reserve would obviously be too small. Unlike Mr Thiébaut, I would like to draw your attention to the figures mentioned by the Secretary of State. There will be peaks of consumption in winter. Consumption will be more or less 13,500 MW. In non-intermittent production, we obtain 10,700. It's too short. Indeed, during the night, photovoltaic energy does not work. Besides, one hour out of three, the wind turbines don't turn. The result is a shortfall of 4,900 MW of renewable energy. It is certain that this will happen. So, they're talking about import. But, Madam Secretary of State, when it is dark in Belgium, it is also the case with our neighbours. As a result, photovoltaics are not available at home. It is therefore impossible to import this energy. Moreover, if there is no wind in Belgium, there is much to bet that there will not be many elsewhere either. Import capacity is therefore not as secure as this. This intermittent energy is obviously a concern. That is what the administration points out in its report. We may fear that the strategic reserve will be too short. Could we reorient the means currently planned to create a new gas power plant to the strategic reserve for existing gas power plants? Could we increase these resources to perhaps involve other structures, such as the Marcinelle power plant or other power plants that might be interested in this idea, in the strategic reserve? Could we delay, by a few months or more, the planned closure of Doel 1 and 2, since the preparatory measures will take place at the end of winter 2015? This would alleviate the end of the winter of 2014-15. In the medium term, it would obviously be necessary to reflect also on our energy mix. My third question concerns the information given to the local authorities. Like colleague Thiébaut, I am a mayor. In 2013, I studied deeply the relief plan planned at the time. The rural areas, in which my municipality is located, are the first to be affected. We can understand that, for technical reasons, it is normal to cut electricity first in rural areas because the consequences will probably be less dramatic. But there will be consequences. As Mr Thiébaut said very well, we need solidarity measures. It would still be incredible if municipalities that are not concerned did not take action and that it is the rural communes that trincate. The means put in place will have to be put in place in rural areas as a matter of priority. Are we going to reorient the means, in particular by means of generators, to the areas which will be the first to be cut off by electricity, for example zone 1, with Luxembourg, Namur? Still on this aspect, the Regions do not seem to react in the same way: Flanders seems to take up the problem with arms, while Wallonia does not have the same will to hear the minister this Monday. Awareness appears to be different. What is the status of the consultation with the Regions? Is the Walloon Region proactively involved in the implementation of measures to address this problem? My fourth and final question, Madam Secretary of State, concerns the impact on tariffs. To read the international press, the risk of a power cut in one country, even if it happens in Brittany and other countries of the world, does not give a very attractive image for investors in Belgium. Moreover, it is entirely logical to fear an increase in tariffs. To your knowledge, what would be the impact of these measures on electricity tariffs? What will be the consequences of this situation for our country's image? Madam President, I have respected my speaking time and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u23	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the explanatory statement. Colleagues, since 4 August 2014, which is the day on which Objective 4 has stopped, hardly a day passes or there is an energy chapter in the news. Security of electricity has always been a sign. Electricity is a necessary building block of our economy and our daily lives. If that building block can suddenly no longer be guaranteed, we are worried. Our concern is increasing as those responsible fail to clarify it. That is why it is good that both ministers are here today to clarify our security of supply. As the ministers have pointed out, security of supply may be compromised by a combination of circumstances. Colleagues, admit that no government and no party could have predicted that Objective 4 would suddenly be stopped by sabotage. No policy could have foreseen that. A coincidence now leads us to a moment when we may not be sure that our supplies will be secure in the coming winter. Some Members will perhaps seize the moment to be able to shoot at previous governments. Other members use the moment to perform another show. However, instead of looking back and blaming each other, let us give answers to the many questions and concerns about businesses, about the municipalities and about our citizens. This is what we also want to get today: clear answers to all our questions. The Ministers have already eliminated a lot of uncertainties, including the nuclear reactors that are currently at a standstill. I understand it's not certain when Tihange 2 and Target 3 will restart. Tihange 1 has to go into revision. On this point, Electrabel announced yesterday that its revision would be split. I would have liked to know on this point whether the split-up does not have any detrimental consequences for our nuclear safety. Does the delay involve risk derivatives? Has it been done in consultation with the competent authorities? Minister Wathelet has also indicated that Objective 4 cannot work because there is a serious problem. Objective 4 will certainly not start before 31 December 2014. However, we do not yet know when the plant will restart. When we look at Secretary of State Fonck's notes, this brings us to the conclusion that we are very likely to reach the third hypothesis, namely that Objective 3, Tihange 2 and Objective 4 are not in order and will not start before the coming winter. Let it be just that scenario which has not yet been examined and which has a lot of doubts. That is why I think it would be useful to put forward a number of short-term solutions and to ask a number of questions, which have also recently been put to the media. In this respect, one considers that this is not feasible, while another considers that it is feasible. That is why I have some very specific questions about possible short-term solutions. There have been several references to the strategic reserve of 850 MW, a very good measure in the Wathelet plan. The question is whether it can be extended to a higher capacity. Is that technically and practically possible? I'd like some clarification on that. At present, the demand response has also been addressed. Contracts have already been concluded with large consumers. We know from civil society that there are still interested parties and that companies want to conclude contracts themselves in order to be able to switch off at peak times. That is also very useful for them because the price of electricity is usually very high. If they can switch off then it's taken away for them while it also helps us to maintain the balance. I would like more clarity on the steps that have been taken in this regard. Is there any potential in that? Can this be discussed in the short term? During a debate on security of supply in the Seventh Day at the end of March, I added that there is overcapacity in the Netherlands. There are power stations that have been shut down. Among other things, the plant at Maasbracht can yield 1 300 MW. Some say it can be turned on quickly while others say it is not a feasible slope. I would like to be clear about this. I put it in March. Did any research take place on this? Minister Vande Lanotte also said that this is an option. Has this been investigated? What are the results? Then there's the import. Secretary of State Fonck said we have a capacity of 3,500 MW. That's good, of course. We must continue to invest in our connections with the Netherlands, Germany and the United Kingdom. However, a number of minor incidents have also occurred with regard to our import capacity. I refer, among other things, to a fire and two explosions in the cross-control transformer in Monceau-sur-Sambre. He's still down. There is also a maintenance of the cross-control transformer in Zandvliet. Will these two incidents have an impact on our import capacity? Has that already been settled in the 3 500 MW or will it be resolved by then? Another piste that was also brought into the media and was immediately shot off also concerned the emergency generators. Secretary of State Fonck also mentioned this. Is it an imaginable slope that we already switch on the emergency generators on our grid and that we use them when there's a peak moment? Elia says that this is not a feasible slope because people do not know where the emergency generators are or can easily be connected to the grid. What's up with this? Can't or can't? What are the possibilities and what are the difficulties? Colleagues, finally, the exit plan. Two years ago it was announced that work would now finally be done on a cut-off plan. It's good that we're prepared for the worst. It is better to be checked off than to experience a blackout. We're convinced of that. It is just a pity that there has been so much concern about this. The communication on this should have been done much faster. More transparency is needed. I believe that each of us has already received calls from anxious citizens, farmers and SMEs with questions about what would happen if they were switched off. After all, the damage will be great. How exactly will that shutdown happen and for how long, for four hours or for an entire day? Will the people concerned know that in advance? There are many practical questions that you have already answered. However, there is also a financial side to a cut-off. Who's gonna pay for the damage? A year and a half ago I put a question to Mr Wathelet, then Secretary of State. Suppose that a farm, a chicken farm, is suddenly switched off for two hours. All chicks will be dead by then. Who will compensate for this economic damage? Mr Wathelet, you replied that there was thought about this and that work would be done on it. Now, what is the state of play? Is there going to be a compensation arrangement? In Flanders there is a compensation scheme for uncontrolled shutdown of more than four hours. Will that compensation also be granted in the case of a controlled cut-off? Who will pay that fee? I hope that these fees do not have to be paid by the distribution system operators, because in the end it is the municipalities that are responsible for the costs, which I do not think should be the intention. I hope that I will certainly be able to get an answer to all these questions and that we will have more transparency in the coming days, so that we can, in particular, address the concerns of the people, the many businesses and SMEs. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we too are pleased to be sitting together this afternoon because it was high time to clarify things. In recent weeks, we have seen real panic-mongering in the media. Some of us are well aware of this, but we believe that this is detrimental to the credibility of the entire political world and, above all, is causing unnecessary unrest among citizens and businesses. At some point we felt as if a pilot announced that there would be turbulent flying again, but after that we wouldn't hear from him again. That is, of course, a recipe to cause panic among the population, fed by the media. We want answers to a number of concrete questions and even more clarity than we have just received from those responsible. We must, of course, make a distinction between the short and medium and long term. In the short term, I hear a lot about the exit plan. There is also a need to know how to proceed and the need to communicate about it and not to conjecture. For us, the focus at this stage should be on a non-completion plan, Dad. Don't panic but avoid! We must avoid the moment of shutdown. We believe that at the moment there is still the opportunity to work on this in the first instance. I would like to highlight three elements which we consider to be very important. Firstly, all available domestic production capacity must, of course, be able to run and must be addressed. We therefore believe that we really need to look at the possibility of rebooting recently cold-set capacity. I am still reading about new plans to decommission power stations, while at the moment the focus should be on the production capacity that can run, which must be able to run. Sometimes we read about capacity that would be cold because it is not profitable. Well, then the costs of running that production capacity must be calculated and weighed against the cost of a switch-off. Madam Secretary of State mentioned Vilvoorde, but I am also thinking, for example, of Drogenbos TGV. There is still a capacity that is cold and could be absolutely necessary in a non-completion plan. Secondly, there is, of course, a need for consultation with foreign countries, so that import capacity remains guaranteed. Interconnections should be optimised. That has already been the subject of specific questions, so I will not repeat them. For import capacity, the Netherlands is particularly often looked at, where there is a surplus capacity that we may be able to bring here. The government has also issued a tender and call to check whether there is new capacity to be created in our own country, because that is what we need. Thirdly, in a non-completion plan, it seems to me that the time has come for a thorough consultation with the business community. That is why we are here on the Committee on Business. As politicians, we bear the primary responsibility for the supply of energy that we can market. However, we can also act smartly on the demand side. A very intense consultation with the business community is useful for this, because the business community is involved in all the debate. Such consultations may provide different relevant answers. Given the phase in which we are now, we ask for an absolute focus on a non-completion plan in the short term. We must not panic, but we must anticipate or avoid it. As politicians, we cannot go beyond the medium term. In this respect, I would like to make it clear what are very important criteria for our group in a general energy mix. A first criterion is security of supply, which we all want to face today. A second criterion is CO2 friendliness and a third is the cost, crucial for both citizens and businesses, because in addition to labour costs, energy costs are important business costs. Within this golden triangle of security, environmental friendliness and cost, the future energy policy must be defined, as the government negotiations deserve. Finally, I should like to stress that nuclear safety comes first and foremost for Open Vld. In this respect, we would like to hear the FANC's plan of action. Ladies and gentlemen, Open Vld has many questions for the government and is a requesting party to organise hearings with, among other things, Elia, the FANC and certainly with the chairman of the College of Governors, whose minister has confirmed that he is meeting again with the provincial governors on 3 September. So much for what is primordial for Open Vld in this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u25	Mr Wathelet, Mrs Fonck, first of all I would like to thank you very much for your very detailed explanation. The sp.a Group makes a number of important observations. We note that after the government stagnated energy policy between 2007 and 2011, this current government is actually the first government to draw up a real equipment plan. A long-term energy supply plan has been drawn up and the government has taken a number of measures to ensure short-term security of supply. As Mrs Fonck explained explicitly and in detail, a strategic reserve production capacity was established. In this context, I would like to ask once again, quite specifically and specifically, how the mayors will be involved in the whole emergency plan if it is called upon to do so. I notice that there is a great deal of concern in the municipalities. The city halls are flooded with questions from citizens and the mayors do not immediately know how to respond to them. We need to be sure of this very clearly and very quickly. A clear timing and organisation should also be agreed with the mayors. That is of the utmost importance. Together with a number of fellow Members, I note that there is overcapacity in our neighbouring countries. We need to look at how it can be used even more efficiently. A number of Belgian gas plants are either not running or are barely running at the moment. In what way can fast work be done to enable them and thus increase capacity? A second observation made by the sp.a Group is that those who have been advocating a reduction in nuclear dependence for many years, including our group, are unfortunately right in the facts today. Among other things, by raising doubts between 2007 and 2010 about the closure of the three oldest power stations, an agreement at the time between the government of which we were not part, and Electrabel.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... All efforts for efficient and reliable innovations then fell silent and we remained dependent on those nuclear power plants for a longer time. O irony, now we see that the incidents are not happening in the oldest plants, but in the plants which, according to the 2003 exit calendar, were going to produce electricity for another ten years. So it seems to me that this is a failure of Electrabel rather than a failure of this current government. What concerns the sp.a is the question of how we should proceed now. What sp.a wants to see an answer to today is the question of how current negotiators see the long-term solution to our energy supply. The negotiators are faced with a particularly sharp choice: to extend the life of unreliable nuclear power plants.................................................................................................................................................................................................. The fact that the sp.a goes for the second scenario is, of course, beyond question. The incidents in the nuclear power plants show once again that our energy policy must provide security to all residents, to all companies, to all investors. What we saw in the media yesterday about energy policy in the formatters' note worries us very much. Will the Swedish coalition in the making choose to rely on power stations that are still ten years older than those that are leaking now? Will she choose to build a new plant? I think it would be a choice for a technology that is no longer profitable anywhere in Europe. Will she opt for even greater uncertainty? Will she choose to undermine the security of many in order to perpetuate the power of some energy giants? Will she invest in that bottomless pit again? If that is the scenario, we believe that we understand from the media that there is a risk of that, then we will fight it with our hands and our hands against it. It would be criminal to abuse the incident in Objective 4 to reverse the decisions on the core exit. We will not accept that the new government continues to cultivate feelings of fear among the people in order to unilaterally serve the interests of capital. We will not accept the increase in VAT for families for pointless, short-sighted investments. As a sp.a, we do not accept that EUR 17 billion will be saved on the middle class hood and then hundreds of millions invested in leaking nuclear power plants. For us, energy policy must be efficient, sustainable, flexible at peak times and, above all, affordable for all the actors I have just listed. This choice has been made very clearly in the debate and the explanatory statement can and must now be made. Longer delay would be irresponsible. That has everything to do with the discussion today. It is important to look to the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u26	Mr President, Madam President, I would first like to thank you and the President of the Chamber for organising a committee. That is what our group had asked for, and you responded to it. That is a good thing. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for being here. I share the spirit of a number of fellow Members who say that we should not dramatize the situation. At the same time, it is necessary to establish together, whether you are a member of the majority or of the opposition, of the new government or the old one, that there is a problem in our country today. If titles like four hours in the dark appear in a prosperous country like Belgium, then that is really unacceptable. In a country with incredibly entrepreneurship, creativity, with a lot of smart heads, where the energy sector has been asking for ten years to kick ass, the uncertainty about our supplies is unacceptable. So let us not put this into too much perspective, as some of my fellow Members are doing. Mrs Fonck, you say that this happens to us, that you did not see this coming and did all the trouble in the world but that this really could not be predicted. I disagree. Of course we cannot predict this concrete act in Objective 4, but it was only a matter of time before we in this country were the victims of our vulnerability to energy, that we would be the victims of our extreme dependence on a player and a technology. This situation is therefore predictable, but it is a matter of political responsibility. The fact that today's Secretary of State does not recognise whether it is in current cases or with full powers means that one is still in the denial phase, that one still does not realize that nuclear dependence is problematic. Some Members of this House even go further and say that this dependence must be increased, that there must be a new nuclear power station. That's absurd. We have to get past that denial phase. We must get out of that path over the last ten years, out of this impasse. This is the result of ten years of non-policy, ten years of legal uncertainty. This is the result of a blind belief in nuclear power. This is the result of energy companies that are always in the party when it comes to cash register, cash register with deprecated nuclear power plants, but not at home when it comes to peak capacity and power stations that are needed to achieve our security of supply. This is, in our view, more clear today than ever before. Let this be a clear starting point for the next federal government. I would like to ask you three questions. Firstly, security of supply. You say that the strategic reserve currently amounts to about 800 MW. I have just added Seraing, Vilvoorde and the interruption contracts, the three building blocks mentioned by the Secretary of State. Seraing 485 MW, Vilvoorde 385 MW and according to the sector maximum 100 MW concerning the interruption contracts. You need to clarify this after the MW. If the figures are correct, this means that the strategic reserve you have collected as State Secretary is not sufficient for the Objective 3 and Tihange 2 scenario, of which you yourself claim to need 1200 MW of strategic reserve. I can't get around this. When did the problems at Target 3 and Tihange 2 turn up? That wasn't yesterday or the day before yesterday or six months ago. The problems have surfaced in the summer of 2012. You have tabled a draft law in Parliament on a strategic reserve of 800 MW. At that time everyone who follows up on the energy file already knew that this was not enough. Target 3 and Tihange 2 would be abandoned. They have been prying at thousands of cracks for months and are not getting any results that are satisfactory. Minister, as Secretary of State, you have failed to do so. You have still not collected enough strategic reserve for a scenario in which Objective 4 would function. As far as supplies are concerned, you bear a great deal of responsibility. I'm surprised you didn't refer to a ten-point plan that the network operator is developing. I'm surprised you don't give me any more information on the state of affairs. This seems very important to me to know. That is why a hearing with the network operator has been held. Secondly, physical security. Minister, I do not expect you to elaborate on the specific research. However, I have not heard enough today that an act of sabotage is a problem, not even by other groups. In principle, the operator bears a great responsibility in this respect. There is a royal decision on the physical protection of nuclear installations which clearly defines the measures to be taken to avoid such situations. I therefore ask you, Minister for the Interior, how has that been possible? What is your assessment or conviction? Has the operator taken sufficient measures to avoid such situations in the past? The physical protection of our nuclear power stations is, in my view, an absolute priority. There must be no open day. Now I'm getting to the shutdown plan. We are actually a prosperous and smart country with incredible potential, with a lot of political staff and strong administrations. I therefore find the improvisation I have seen in the past week around that exit plan unacceptable. Some mayors say they don't know anything, while others have a plan, but that turns out to be two years old and they don't know if that's still up-to-date. Governors say that they will publish the plan because citizens are entitled to that information. It is obvious that such a plan requires preparation, but I find the current situation of improvisation and chaos in that area unacceptable. I agree with Mr Ceysen who has put it beautifully: it must clearly be the ambition to light the lamp. There can be no doubt about that in a country like Belgium. If, however, the lights were to go out, then the question arises not only how we deal with them procedurally and safely, but also socially and economically. The security of supply, the light on, is indeed a central task of the government. Our group is therefore making a very concrete proposal to all fellow Members. We are now in a period of current affairs, and that is the time for parliamentary cooperation. I'd like to invite you to investigate together, when the time comes, how the government can compensate for the damage to citizens and businesses. I am not only concerned with businesses, but also with the citizens. All Belgians in our country rightly expect the lamp to light up. I hope that this committee will support our concrete proposal for compensation in the event of a shortage of electricity for both citizens and businesses. People have a right to that. Over the last ten years, politics has failed to shape energy policy and set new tracks. Politics has failed to implement proposals from our group, from civil society, from the sector and from the economic world. That is why the step must now be taken, in the sense that politics, the next government, must be responsive and provide for compensation for citizens and businesses. Besides, hopefully, another energy policy, we think that work for the new coalition of Peeters and Michel.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u27	Mr. Chair, Madam Chair, I wanted to thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for their very clear presentations. I think they contribute to serenity in the context of the panic of the last few days. Some have taken advantage of these events, as other colleagues have said, to "exist" in the middle of the summer or simply to be able to do a little bit of politics. First of all, I would like to say, and other colleagues have said, that the shutdown of the three nuclear reactors and the non-start-up of them before the winter period were not predictable and were beyond the control of the government. I think it's important. The highest priority for us is nuclear safety. Many other colleagues have said so. But it is also important, and I believe it is really essential, as the Secretary of State said, to ensure the security of supply of all actors – economic actors, citizens – without disaster. The presentation which was given to us developed in a very clear way the different phases and stages without entering into a kind of psychosis. I am very surprised to hear some speakers around this table today regret that no action has been taken, while when the Strategic Reserve Act was passed, the same speakers deplored the fact that the liberalisation of the energy market was systematically dismantled by the government. I believe that we cannot both wish for liberalisation without government intervention and regret that no action has been taken. I think it's a paradox and something that needs to be clarified. We can now point out that if these measures had not been taken, and the Secretary of State said and repeated it, the market would not have done it itself. It is important for security of supply that these measures have been taken in a timely and timely manner and not in haste following recent incidents. Everyone will indeed appreciate the anticipation for the past two years, which both the Secretary of State and the Government have demonstrated. These measures allow the situation not to be chaotic. I will also take up a report from DG Energy (2013) based on the Elias report, which stated that the estimated need for the strategic reserve was between 0 and 800 megawatts. The government had therefore anticipated perfectly. What worries both the population and the parliamentarians of this committee is the discharge plan. Mr Wathelet has repeatedly pointed out that this plan is the ultimate remedy, it is the necessary evil. If activated, the communication must be effective and it appears that the arrangements for the municipalities and governors are fully in place. There is one point I would like to make. How can we be sure that the municipal authorities will clearly pass on the information that will be disclosed to the governors? Some municipalities are sometimes in special situations. As a result, some municipal authorities do not always aim at the general interest and could also use these measures to pursue low-level policies. I just heard it's outrageous to imagine a plan of relief. Ministers made it clear that this was the ultimate remedy, although a series of measures were activated to avoid it. If we had followed the previous speakers in the plan to leave nuclear power without an alternative, it would not have been four hours of discharge and, in my view, the city of Brussels would also have been under relief. Indeed, no alternatives were foreseen. It's easy now to come and scream. It was not until Melchior Wathelet was in command, that a real alternative plan existed in view of the planned release of nuclear power. It is important to me to know how the communal authorities will pass on this information. Other colleagues have stressed the need for solidarity between several rural communes, such as the one from which I come. I would like answers to these questions concerning the information to be provided. Finally, I thank the two ministers for the transparency they have shown before this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u28	Mr President, as far as I am concerned, I would also like to thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for coming and their very comprehensive presentation. However, I cannot hide the fact that I have a feeling of déja vu. I have been in the Chamber since 2007 and during the first legislature I experienced here, from 2007 to 2010, a lot of attention has already been paid in the Business Committee to this discussion on security of supply. I remember the many visits and hearings around the 2030 energy report, which was prepared under the guidance of a former professor of mine, Mr Döhhaeseleer. A few years ago we were awakened by the practice. In 2012 and in the winter of 2013 there were times when the situation was very critical and the blackout was very close. I am surprised, then, that no structural solutions have been found in all this time. If outgoing Prime Minister Di Rupo says today that he has nothing to hide on the energy issue, then he is right. He hasn't done anything and there is nothing to hide. We should have known better, because there has been enough warning and the situation is not new. I therefore regret to note that despite all the recommendations made at the time, the exit from nuclear power was maintained, but at the same time it did not make any effort to develop a forward-looking supply policy. We have not developed a long-term energy vision to deal with the closure of which we are so strongly in favour. We have always been in favour of this today, and I believe that it is now more quickly needed than ever to achieve a diversified energy mix that is adequate and reliable and can guarantee security of supply. I am convinced that, because of the circumstances, we have no choice but to keep all traces of thought open. Everyone knows that efforts have been made for intermittent fuels, wind and sunshine, but everyone also knows that they are not always active, especially in winter when consumption peaks and the sun shines the least. We need a back-up, and this requires a sufficiently diversified production park that does not exclude any technology a priori. Despite all your explanations, I still have a number of questions. A lot of questions have already been asked, but I would like to add a few more, all due to two main concerns, namely security of supply and affordability. First of all, there is the enormous concern that is rightly expressed by the municipalities, citizens and businesses. Your message today, that it is possible that we are in the dark this winter, despite our measures, or rather because of the lack of measures, but that we should not dramatize, is not immediately reassuring. The municipalities must today rely on an old exit plan. You have given some explanation. Can you explain to me why the new exit plan has been delayed for so long? You will explain the new plan to the governors on 3 September, but you could already say whether there are any major changes to the old plan. My main concern is whether the municipalities will immediately receive sufficient information about the sequence of decoupling and how long it will last. These are essential things that they need to be able to prepare for and which are not clear in the old plan on which the municipalities must base themselves today. A document from the crisis centre shows what impressive consequences this can have in all areas that are disconnected from a shutdown. Traffic management on roads, landlines, the Internet and so on can be cancelled. Can you give me more information on that? Unfortunately, we have not been able to hear structural solutions in recent years. It is typical of the ostrich policy that has taken place over the last 11 years, that we have to go back to short-term solutions out of necessity. There will also be no structural solutions for this winter. With regard to the short-term solutions already put forward by some groups, I would have liked to hear from you whether they are being examined. There has already been talk here of the gas plant in Maasbracht, which, because it is not profitable, is still. I would have liked to know whether initiatives were taken during the previous government period to provide permits for Maasbracht. If we want to lay the 15 km long cable, we will have to hurry. Everyone knows that the procedures in this area take years. On the subject of Maasbracht, I also wondered whether you would agree with all those involved, namely that it is actually unrealistic that the said gas plant could still supply electricity for our country next winter. A second emergency solution, which has already been mentioned, is the emergency generators. They are not yet a structural measure. Nevertheless, I would have liked to know whether such a solution is seriously considered. Do you consider the measure realistic? Elia has already pointed out that there is no infrastructure to connect the emergency generators to the high voltage grid. Moreover, according to Elia, not all installations have been notified. So I would have liked to know whether you are taking this seriously. If so, what is the cost of such operations? After all, I assume that anyone who makes his emergency generator available will be charged a fee. Finally, I would also like to ask a few questions about Objective 4, in addition to Mr Clarinval's questions. I will not repeat his questions. However, I would have liked information on the sabotage in Objective 4, which has very serious consequences. The access control is carried out in Objective 4 via electronic badges with an exact time record. In the meantime, does the government have any eyes on the saboteur? Since sabotage can cause damage to millions of euros, it is striking that the newspapers do not even mention speculation of the offender profile in this respect. However, the unsub profile is very important, because it may not be a single case. Apart from Objective 4, there may be cases of sabotage. A few months ago, in Monceau-sur-Sambre, a cross-control transformer optimizing the import capacity between France and Belgium was destroyed by a few explosions. Is it true that the fire in Monceau-sur-Sambre is being re-examined after the events in Objective 4? Can you give us an update on that? Do you know whether there are any minor or major incidents under consideration? If there are other malpractices at stake, then the problems are much greater than is estimated today; if the sabotage in Objective 4 is not an isolated case, additional measures will have to be taken. The Minister has already referred to the additional measures imposed by the FANC to increase safety in Objective 4. Will they also be applied immediately in the other power stations and not just in the nuclear power stations? After all, I fear that Objective 4 is not an isolated case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, Minister, thank you for your briefings. They want to be so reassuring that we will almost end up hoping that at some point there will be a lack of energy supply and that we can see the reality of implementing a waste disposal plan. I'm saying it with a bit of irony, you know that. Last winter, I attended a meeting with the governor of the Brussels borough to consider the implementation of the relief plan and it was the most complete improvisation. The governor asked the mayors of the Brussels Region to carry out an inventory of emergency structures or generators in their respective territories, which they were unable to draw up. It takes almost one building-by-building investigation to see what the capabilities are. There are no official data on these capabilities today. Of course, we can suspect that a certain type of activity has this type of supply autonomy: public hospitals, a number of large industrial structures, a number of public buildings, and still, not always in condition, of which it is not known whether their conformity is regularly verified. If, tomorrow, we were really faced with such a situation that we do not wish, we would face real chaos and great difficulties in ensuring collective and individual security. Do not believe for a moment that all the mayors could face emergency situations that they cannot estimate today. It is when they occur that we discover the real consequences of these events. The real problem is to review our own production capacity in Belgium. Recently, Trends-Trends dealt with Belgian gas-fired thermal power plants almost at a standstill. There was no lack of interest in the article. For we read there that reserve capabilities are under-exploited. Of course, they have a cost. The cost of producing these plants is higher than other modes of production, but this is a real debate. Will a number of these plants be activated or restarted or will their production capacity be increased? What is the cost? I didn't hear you on this. I would really like you to be able to answer this question today: what is the estimate of these capacity of plants that are not sufficiently exploited? What would be the cost? The real debate is to announce in full transparency to users, both industrial and individual, the cost of security of supply at the start of production methods which, today, are not economically profitable. This is the real debate. Our security of supply requires a cost: what is it and what can we accept? It is paradoxical to note that other countries are in overcapacity for production. You didn't talk about it much. Which countries of the European Union can offer us guarantees of supply in a certain way today? Indeed, some countries in the European Union may also face supply shortages. France, although a major producer of nuclear energy, is experiencing moments of insufficient production and must call on some neighbouring countries to ensure adequate supply, especially since this country still has many electrical heating installations. This debate deserves our attention. However, I did not hear you either about a reflection at European level. Of course, our thinking is short-term, but the repetition of the current risks should lead us to activate solidarity mechanisms more voluntarily at European level. This debate could be framed from a broader perspective: the possible scarcity of other energy sources in an international geopolitical context, to say the least, uncertain. It is not impossible that, because of events which are guessed on other continents, not so far away, we would experience production deficiencies or difficulties in supplying other energy sources. Such a situation would lead us to other debates in our country than the only issue of insufficient production, as is the case today, linked to the operation of nuclear power plants. Here too, I would like to hear from you about the state of thinking. If it is true that the situation requires work on the short, medium or long term, it should be started now. I am aware that you are in the process of dispatching current affairs, I know that the debate will undoubtedly concern a future government; however, this reflection must go beyond the framework of political contingencies, because security of energy supply is one of the essential conditions for the economic future of our continent. The main challenge of continuing economic growth in Europe is the guarantee of autonomy in terms of energy supply. This debate obviously goes beyond the question of what conditions we might have in the coming winter. The press reported immediate solutions. Emergency generators could help avoid an electric blackout. Some estimate its capacity at more than 1,000 MW. Others give much higher figures. We did not hear you about this technical possibility, quite random according to some. Food from Maasbracht in the Netherlands was also not mentioned. The Minister for the Economy, Mr Vande Lanotte, is very much in favour of this. It is unlikely that a 15 km cable can be pulled in a few months to provide this power supply. Is this a measure to be taken in the medium term? I would like to know your point of view. Finally, I insist on an aspect that seems to me to be treated with some rigour in planning, but - it seems to me - with a total lack of practicality. I am referring to the possibility of a plan of relief, with consequences in terms of collective and individual security. One thing is to transmit through the governors... By the way, as a Brussels mayor, I have not yet received any documents. This may be the case for a few days... we know that the powers differ from those of the other governors. (...): You are not in rural areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u30	Even in Brussels, we were told that a post in Drogenbos could no longer be supplied with electricity and that, as a result, part of the territory of Brussels would no longer be supplied with electricity. Anyway, I am in solidarity with all the mayors – whatever the communes concerned. Basically, I believe that between theoretical planning, as I read it in the press, and reality on the ground, there will be more than a hiatus; it will be a real difficulty. Such a situation cannot be faced if no exercise is organized by the relief services. As a mayor, every time I have been confronted with emergency situations, I have not only learned a number of lessons from them, but above all I have held that it was preventive exercises that allowed the operational methods of the various relief services to be systematized. For everything else, one can receive a literature by ministerial circular. And we receive so much and more when we are a mayor, especially linked to the general plan of emergency and response. We can receive methodological manuals, but if at some point there is not a simulation by practical exercise, I can tell you that few administrative authorities, regardless of their dedication, regardless of their abilities, will be able to deal with situations. I turn to the Minister of the Interior to find out how far this type of simulation exercise could be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u31	Madam Secretary of State, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have found two quotations which I would like to read to you and which I find succulent. They date from 2011 and are extracted from the outgoing coalition's government agreement. First quote: "Security of energy supply will be guaranteed by maximizing diversification of sources of supply and giving priority to renewable energy". Second quote: "The government will develop without delay, and no later than six months after its installation, a plan of equipment in new diversified energy production capacities to ensure credible supply of electricity to the country in the short, medium and long term." What is the record today, three years later? A possible electricity shortage is mentioned for this winter, since the import of energy will depend on what neighbouring countries will want and will be able to supply, also knowing that there is a strategic reserve of 850 MW, which is very little compared to peaks of up to 13,000 MW. The clearance plans discussed are also evidence of the risks of this shortage. How did we get there? Simply because, in our country, it is not the federal government that leads energy policy. Neither the regional governments nor the communes are responsible for this policy. In Belgium, it is the private sector and, in particular, Electrabel and its parent company, GDF SUEZ, that decide on the electricity that is produced and how it is produced. So, I'm very happy to hear my cdH colleague say, "The market doesn't do things itself." But in Belgium, that's how it works. Except at the margin, on strategic reserves, basically, it is the market that decides. The government can decide things, but the market will decide. In fact, Electrabel is very clear on the subject. In 2012, when the country's largest non-nuclear power plant was closed, Electrobel's production manager, Wim De Clercq, stated explicitly: "We are not responsible for the security of electricity supply in Belgium. Given the current climate, we will certainly not make new investments in Belgium." Clearly, blackmail – blackmail why? Blackmail because the nuclear option defended by Electrabel for profit reasons was not retained. He also pointed out that no large electricity producer was investing in Belgium. We can make the comparison. Would a mother give a nanny her baby to breastfeed if the nanny told her: I can't guarantee your baby's milk supply? No. But, yet, here, that's what we do. We continue to give to the private, especially to Electrabel...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u32	It's a little sexist as a comparison. (...): It's very sexist.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u33	It's not sexist.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u34	It is up to the women's sub-section of the PTB to decide on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u35	What we see is that since then, Electrabel has invested in the Netherlands and Germany, built dams in Brazil, launched dozens of new gas power plants in China, but nothing in Belgium! Will the authorities leave our energy production in the hands of a socially irresponsible multinational? What we are actually seeing is that in terms of energy, the market is not working. A private producer will always be more interested in plants covering basic needs, much more profitable than the plants needed at peak production. What is also apparent, and it has been mentioned, is that several gas-fired power plants have been closed down because, in the scheme of profitability of energy producers, this does not take into account, it costs too much, it does not make them enough profit; and therefore they are closed down. I would like to ask the following four questions: are you sure about imports that neighbouring countries, also faced with a possible harsh winter, want and can provide us? Do you intend to take action to prevent the closure of gas-fired power plants, such as in Seraing, Drogenbos and Vilvorde? For the record, Luminus stopped its plant on 31 October in order to be able to enter the strategic reserve mechanism, which was aberrant. It's like a firefighter goes out to put out the fire himself! Do you confirm that if the strategic reserve is activated, it is the State, the population that may have to intervene financially if the production costs are too high? What are you going to do so that multinationals such as Electrabel, driven solely by profit, cannot have a decisive influence on Belgium's energy policy? At the PTB, it is thought that it would be necessary, if we leave the short term next winter, to define a multi-year plan in which the State would define the types and quantities of energy needed (as much gas energy, as much wind energy, if possible zero nuclear energy) and after defining this scheme to propose to private companies to join it. If they refuse to do so, it must be noted that it is the State which should take control of energy production.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all your questions. Of course, the issues emerging from the debate (short term, safety issues and security of supply for this winter) will be the subject of much debate in the Committee on the Economy, don't worry! We will therefore confine ourselves to urgent matters, for which we have convened this committee. Before giving the floor to Mrs Fonck and Mr Wathelet, I would like to say that the speakers will still have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your various contributions to this important debate. Many of your questions overlap. Melchior Wathelet will complete my answers with respect to his skills. Some raised the issue of price. In the very short term, will the closure of Doel 4 have an impact? There was one of a few euros per megawatt. We know this situation, which is fluctuating throughout the year. If winter is harsher, the cost will necessarily vary. If supply declines significantly, this will lead to an upward effect. However, I would like to pay attention to the following point. There are fixed customers, who have entered into a contract. For them, by definition, this does not result in any impact on cost. On the other hand, you have variable contracts. If fluctuations are observed in the market, they are only passed on in a second phase, since it takes several months, or even two years, to have an impact on the price. Am I able today to explain to you what will happen within three months or six months? No, of course not. We cannot guarantee how the market can evolve. I was right to be asked by a number of stakeholders about the various ways in which additional capacity could be considered for this winter. Did we ask this question? Of course. Have we invested in it? Not only since Doel 4, but since June, just after Electrabel announced to postpone the tests until autumn. Even today, we continue to invest in it: with the administration, with Elia, with the CREG, we all study, really all possibilities. At the moment, we do not yet have any feasible elements in addition to what we have done. Through your questions, you set out various examples. "There is a need to increase the strategic reserve, which is insufficient. Gas-fired power stations have not received sufficient attention while those intending to close have to be saved." Did you have to do more? We launched a call for tenders for the gas power plants in Vilvorde and Seraing, which I quoted earlier, and we took everything, everything. You're telling me that some gas-fired power plants have shut down. It is true that in 2013, three plants closed, but it was a mixture of gas, coal and oil. You have to say everything when you say something. The press was revealing this fact and I think that's what you were referring to. They were old units dating back to the 1960s, unreliable and polluting. For these three I quote clearly – Ruien 5, Ruien 6 and Les Awirs 5 (Flemalle) – given their seniority, their enormous degree of pollution and their minimal reliability, it was not logical to keep them active. On the other hand, this year, for the first time, we launched a tender for Vilvorde and Seraing; the tenders were accepted. If we had obtained more proposals, we would have welcomed them. But we can't invent what doesn't exist. I would like to be clear on this. Also with regard to the strategic reserve, some referred to interruptible contracts. At the level of these contracts, there are 100 MW which have been able to be sought in a complementary way at the level of the strategic reserve. Are there other possibilities for interruptible contracts? There were already more or less the same order, 100 MW, a whole series of customers that had previously been contracted by Elia. This year, in relation to the potential we could imagine, we are also there. Another example I was given was Marcinelle's power station. It's a gas-fired power plant, but it's still running. So we can't look for her anymore. She's active. We're not going to subsidize what works. Now I come to the emergency generators, on which I would like to make two points. There are small generators, for example in hospitals. Those little generators can't technically be used. Not for the coming winter, but for the following, specific and very large generators can probably be installed. This possibility is now being studied by the administration, Elia and the CREG. I will try to be concrete, but without mixing the problems. I just talked about the call for tenders for the strategic reserve. Another was recently closed last July. The aim was to have one or two additional gas plants. It was a success, since three projects were submitted. Melchior Wathelet led the project. The objective is to obtain 700 to 900 MW more. Logically, I shouldn't be talking here about the offers that have been sent to us. Now you're all telling me about the Maasbracht power station. The persons concerned therefore expressed themselves in the press. After consideration of the tenders, decisions will be taken accordingly. Then, is it enough to install a 15 km cable very quickly to get I don't know how many extra megawatts? Great! But it's not that simple. Indeed, this "small" cable is not that small. We're not gonna expose her to the open air. Otherwise, you will all come and tell me that the people near whom this "small" cable passes are not happy. Health impact studies are known: this is not a low voltage cable. So it has to be underground. This requires an environmental permit. The rules must be respected. In addition, landfilling takes time. Let us be logical: this is one track among others. It could be included in the scenario of the call I just mentioned. On the other hand, the company's boss also explained to us how to install this cable faster, so without going through the call for tenders that I have just mentioned. I will be completely frank with you: Elia quickly replied that this proposal was not possible. That being said, I have asked that we should be able to study it fully, as all the other solutions do, because we are totally open to what can be put on the table. If I sum up my answer. We need to look at any possibility, what we're doing. We are interested in any solution, do not hesitate to tell us about it. These solutions must be credible, feasible. We need to look at the costs. If, in fine, the price is so insane, that it's just opportunism, without any guarantee behind it, then it's not goed bestuur. There is an analytical work that we do, at the firm level, but also with the administration, Elia and CREG. Questions were asked about the possibility of postponing the closure of Doel 1 and Doel 2. First, there is a law. I'm a good democrat, I hope you too. Then there are all the safety issues in relation to these two reactors. They're the oldest. And then there is the question of fuel, more technical, for those who know it, which is important. We have raised issues that concern rural areas. I will allow my colleague, Minister of the Interior, to respond to this, in relation to all the steps taken, to the mayors, to the local authorities, to the management of the work in connection with the Crisis Centre, etc. I'm going back to the rural areas. I did not say that earlier; I heard about it yesterday on television. You're going to ask me "why rural areas?" We can get into a big technical debate. I will be very brief on this. I would like to refer you to Minister Verwilghen's Ministerial Order of 3 June 2005. All the legal conditions that have been clearly defined are included. In point 2.3.1, thirdly, which determines how to implement the relief plan, clearly shows the relief at the level of rural networks. It is not all of a sudden this year, there, fifteen days ago, that we said, Mr Wathelet or I, that we were going to do this on the backs of the rural people. This is due to technical reasons, since it corresponds to the famous 30 kilovolts, but also legal, compliance with the conditions of the ministerial decree of 2005. On the interruptive contract, I answered. With regard to the problems that have arisen in Monceau-sur-Sambre, can this have a negative impact on our import capacity? The answer is no. Indeed, there is not only one line. There are other lines that make it possible to assume imports from the South without problems. On that, I think we can be reassured. This obviously leads me to speak for a moment about the whole issue of imports. Of course, we do not have an absolute guarantee. Nobody knows today. Yes, we know that in France it's complicated. Each country will have to manage, will have to face a winter that will be harsh or not, long or not, which will necessarily have a more or less significant impact on how these countries will be able to assume their security of supply. Elia gives guarantees, I remind you: 3,500 megawatts. We have set him, I would also remind him, a very clear target at the level of the plan, of an additional 1,000 megawatts by 2018, that is precise. Moreover, for your information, they must make a semi-annual report, and these reports are available on the Elia website. Do not hesitate to consult them. Besides, during the winter you can follow the situation on the site of Elias. When the light is green, everything's fine. When it passes orange, there is a risk of shortage and when it is red, you will have understood that the situation is much more complicated. This information is available online at any time. As far as Europe is concerned, I will let my colleague speak, because that is an essential point for the future and on which he would have wanted to move, because it is at this level that we must intervene. I hope that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow it will be done. After reviewing all your questions, I will point out two elements that have struck me: the first is the work done upstream to avoid the release plan and the work done at the level of this government to give itself an energy plan, an energy mix of alternatives to the exit of nuclear power. Is everything done? No, but who can believe that in a two- or three-year time frame, we can change the whole energy world? No one, because a delay is always indispensable. The second element is obviously the importance that everyone plays the game. All of you! For if everyone makes an effort, and not just municipalities that may be more concerned than others (the federal, the regions, the communes, all the citizens), we will be in a more comfortable situation than if, between 17 and 20 hours, the whole population makes its machines run. Indeed, these aspects of solidarity and this range of measures that will be ready for action by the government according to the situation in which we will be in next winter, these elements are not negligible, on the contrary!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u38	Mr President, Madam President, there were several questions about the meeting on 3 September 2014. It's a meeting with the different governors. As regards the measures and the way in which the scarcity should be dealt with in the different provinces and municipalities, a procedure has been in place since 2013. It was submitted to the Council of Ministers and sent to the various governors. However, we have refined this procedure and it is now much clearer from the experience we have gained and from the various meetings organized by the crisis centre with the various partners I have just quoted, such as the agricultural sector, the energy sector, the financial sector, the industrial sector and various prisons. Then we will be able to give clear information to the various municipalities. The involvement of the municipalities was raised by the sp.a, the N-VA, the Open Vld and several members of the committee. The information will be sent by us and also by the various governors to the municipalities. The governors will play an important role in the proceedings. The meeting of 3 September 2014 is therefore scheduled. The map of Belgium with the different discs already exists, but is now refined. This means that if the procedure is activated at some point, we know more clearly what the consequences will be. That's very important. Indeed, in order to communicate well with the various municipalities, there must be clarity about the consequences of a closure procedure. The information is now refined and clearer and is now available thanks to the cooperation of the crisis centre as well as Synergrid, which is the various distributors, with Elijah and several other partners. The channels of information are therefore the meeting of 3 September, the availability of the card and then the information that is forwarded to the various mayors and municipalities. Mrs Ceysens, there will also be other meetings, such as the planned meeting with industry. The crisis centre also held several meetings with the industry sector for technical questions and questions from them to the crisis centre about the consequences for them and the initiatives they should take. So there will be clarity about who it will be. That's important. If they have any further questions, they will be put to the crisis centre at the meetings that will be organised. Mr Wollants had a question on the additional initiatives for Objective 4. Excuse me, but I won't give it to you. Initiatives have been taken by Electrabel itself for the safety of their own plant. That's normal. However, there are also several new initiatives imposed by the FANC to strengthen the safety of Objective 4. They will also apply to the other power stations. As you just mentioned, it's not just about Target 4. If progress can be made on the safety of our nuclear power stations, this applies not only to Objective 4 but also to the other plants. There is therefore a great deal of attention at present to various important elements of the energy sector in Belgium, with clear new initiatives imposed by the FANC, addressed to Electrabel as regards Objective 4. There was also a question from Mr Calvo. An investigation is now under way and the responsibility of the operator has, of course, been questioned. However, who am I to say that the operator may or may not have committed an error, all the more so because the federal prosecutor is conducting an investigation and an investigating judge has been appointed. At some point there will be a debate on the question of responsibility. If there is a shortage of electricity due to sabotage, with possible damage, then the question arises as to who is responsible for this. This may be the operator, which has not been able to provide sufficient capacity for the market. At the moment, however, I cannot say whether a mistake has been made. Already providing a fee without knowing who is responsible for a possible shortage of electricity on the grid is, in my opinion, a bit too easy, especially for the operator. You know that today we have several ARPs (Access Responsible Party). These electricity suppliers must provide enough electricity; if they are unable to do so, their responsibility is incurred. The State is not always obliged to pay for an operator who has failed to meet the objectives assigned to it and who has failed to fulfil its obligations. The State must not remedy the shortcomings of the private sector. Isn't that right, Mr. Van Hees? Nevertheless, the power producer is the ARP. You will therefore agree with me that if there is a failure on the part of the operator in the management of the safety elements, it will be the responsibility of the operator. Today, an investigation is under way, an investigating judge is appointed; I will not venture to play the sorcerer and to blame one or the other. I'd like to give you an answer. Objectively, I'd like to know her too. We have to wait for the findings of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office's investigation. Let me turn to the questions raised by Messrs. Thiébaut and Clarinval concerning the Doel 2 and Tihange 3 dossiers and the work produced by the nuclear safety subcommittee. The dossier has evolved and has undergone new elements thanks to a certain tenacity and that is why, still today, various tests are under way. The process is as follows: the operator believes or does not have sufficient information to ask the AFCN for permission to restart the plant, but the final word is for the AFCN. We must be clear: it will not belong to the government, let alone to the operator to decide whether to restart Doel 3 or Tihange 2. It is the sole responsibility of the Agency to consider that it has obtained all its clearances from a safety point of view. That is how the procedure must take place, and that is how it takes place. Mr. Thiébaut asked a very interesting question. According to him, if a municipality is not in an area of relief, its officials can say: "In any case, we will never be relieved". That's not true! This is certainly not the reasoning that communal leaders must hold. As I said earlier, a discharge can be caused for two reasons. First of all, we can estimate that there will be a shortage of electricity. But an incident is still possible. You live very close to Tournai, where there was a problem with a high-voltage line because snow had fallen into it. In such a case, one hundred and fifty thousand people find themselves in the dark! As in 2006. Even if not all inhabitants live in an area of relief, they may face a shortage at any time. Here, it is not the result of an absence of balance between supply and demand. This is an unforeseen occurrence. In other words, all municipalities must be able to prepare themselves and have the information they need to be able to react to these discussions. I can't resist telling you a certain surprise. I worked in a government for two and a half years. In this committee, I was told that there was no need for a strategic reserve on the grounds that the market would take care of everything. "But, Wathelet, why are you coming with a strategic reserve? The market will respond appropriately. Don't worry: it's all right! [[We have our interconnections!]] Don't go to subsidize power plants today that want to shut down! If they want to close, if they want to get out of the market, let them do it!" I invite you to resume your parliamentary reports! Today, it is the same people who tell me to allocate to the strategic reserve of the power stations that have not yet announced their closure! In terms of the incoherence of discourse related to situation T, at some point, it is staggering in terms of the great intellectual gap! Stunning! I'm sorry, but I couldn't resist saying it! I promised myself I wouldn't, but the surprise was too big. The revision of Tihange 1 will take place later. That postponement of revision had to be requested and allowed by the FANC. That is the opposite of the situation with Objective 3 and Tihange 2, which will only start after the FANC has been approved. For Tihange 1 it is decided that the revision can be done later. The FANC has authorised this because it is only a short revision. Mr Calvo claims that there would have been improvisation. I can refute that. I have listed the dates of all the meetings organised by the crisis centre over the last two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u39	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u40	Mr Calvo, I have read the newspapers as well. I've even seen you on the first page of De Morgen, so you've achieved your success perfectly. We know each other. Mr Calvo, creating confusion is not difficult. You can do it perfectly. However, it is a little more difficult to come up with solutions. However, that is what we are doing. For all those meetings with the crisis centre, which I have listed for you, I was not responsible myself. Those meetings also worked on the website, the working groups and the new map, which now exists. Mr Calvo, did those procedures exist three years ago? Could Elijah have made such an announcement six to seven days in advance? Did the crisis center have a website yet? Were the different members in working groups working together to transfer the information? Was there a map? Did meetings take place, for example, between Synergrid and the crisis center? The answer is no, nothing, rien, nada, schnoll, blob. That's where we can find each other again. As a wink at Mr. Van Hees, even at the "good time" of total regulation, we were even more dependent on nuclear power. This means that at that time, if people had been confronted with the same problems as today, the consequences would have been much more dramatic. Indeed, everyone thought that a nuclear power plant would never stop. "It's the base," we were told. We thought it was going on. Today, however, only half is available. At the good time of regulation, was there a strategic reserve? No. Was offshore wind available to contribute to security of supply? No. Were there demand management mechanisms that would allow us to reduce consumption in the event of peaks? No. Was there a capacity to predict a shortage in the medium term? No. Were there any maps available to decide which area would be affected, and not another? No. None of these mechanisms existed in the old days of regulation, nor three years ago. If we had had the same discussion three years ago - without these initiatives, whether it be the 3,000 MW of nuclear power, the strategic reserve, or the demand management, or the procedure, the monitoring of Elias or the map - the only thing we could have guaranteed you was that a discharge would be scheduled. But we couldn't have told you where or how. That's what happened in 2006. It was then impossible to describe the consequences of the discharge. Nothing! Is this a simple situation? No. It's a crisis center that's in charge of it. If it exists, it is not because everyone is painstaking and quiet! A crisis centre deals with difficult situations. When we use the removal solution, it means that this is a difficult time, with crisis management. Today, we can avoid them as much as possible, anticipate them, give as much information as possible. We didn't have a life-size exercise, Mr. Maingain. The less we have, the better we all wear. But if Woluwe-Saint-Lambert is a candidate to do a little undoing one day to see the results... We will return as much as possible to the realization. If we avoid the crisis situation so much the better. We cannot do more now. Catherine Fonck said earlier, if anyone knows a power plant to put in our strategic reserve in Belgium, we're taking it. But there's none. If there hadn't been this strategic reserve, we wouldn't be able to give you a start today. All these mechanisms do not yet give us a full-size test, but we all prefer not to pass this full-size test.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u41	Colleagues, as planned, groups that want to reply can do this, one person per group. Subsequently, we will discuss our order of business to find out what hearings we will be doing in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u42	Mr President, Madam President, Minister, Madam Secretary of State, thank you, of course, for the detailed answers. On one point, however, I remain hungry. I am now speaking on behalf of the rural communities, on which much has already been done. You're talking about a map. There used to be no map. Since the end of 2012, there has been a map. We have even seen the map appear in the media. Now you state that the card has been refined and that a new card is now available. That is why I have two questions. What do you mean by sophistication? For example, in Limburg there are 21 municipalities and in West Flanders there are 22 municipalities, or vice versa. Do you mean by sophistication that there are municipalities that can disappear or that can replace other municipalities, or do you mean that of those same municipalities certain sub-municipalities or neighborhoods are on the map and there is, therefore, a refinement in this area? It is a question that will live with many. If the new card exists, why don't we get it now? If it is to last another 10 days, namely until 3 September 2014, this will create curiosity and even fear or false hope. We are getting a lot of documentation here, but I would have liked that essential document too. Is that still possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u43	The map will be available on 3 September.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u44	And what do you mean by "sophisticated"?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u45	Refined means more precise.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u46	Can a city that is now on the map disappear, or vice versa? Is it yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u47	That depends only on the distribution system operator. Why is the map refined and now more precise? That is because it has now been created in cooperation with the various distribution system operators of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u48	That's not an answer. So we will not know whether a municipality can disappear.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u49	The minister told you on September 3. Keep asking questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u50	So we have to wait until September 3rd? Then the governors come together, and Parliament is obviously not allowed to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u51	The intention would be to do so, but we still have to discuss it and submit it to the President and the Conference of Presidents to meet on 3 September.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u52	You mean the committee was supposed to meet on September 3rd?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u53	We can't play on the ball any shorter than September 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u54	Parliament's organisation ensures that it is first and foremost each group. You will speak at the end when all the other groups have reacted.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u55	Anyone who wants to speak can speak. I call Mr Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u56	Madam President, Mr President, very quickly, I thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for their very clear answers. I note, Madam Secretary of State, that the market has already reacted slightly to the price increase. This is an indicator that is not positive. The increase has been slight and we will see how things will change. We are not going to discuss the issue of the energy mix again now. We will have the opportunity to talk again in the coming months about the component of the strategic reserve, some gas-fired power plants that could be part of it. Even if they are not part of it today, I think it will be discussed very quickly in the years to come. As one of my colleagues from the N-VA has just done, I would like to stress the problem of rural communes. I've got the cards from 2013. I had them out at the time – you remember very well, minister – because they were then unknown to the mayors themselves. On the basis of the maps of 2013, which are the only ones that the mayors can have today – on September 3, they may know others – the rural communes are the first to be involved. Attention should be paid to ensuring that these rural communes have their own generators as a priority in order to cope with these measures. The smaller municipalities are also the least favoured financially. However, they will have all of this to deal with at the same time. Since they will be the first to be affected by a cut-off of electricity, it seems to me logical that these municipalities should also be the ones that are being helped most and in priority at the level of the means of substitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u57	Mr President, I began by saying that, in our view, the subject of communication was very difficult. So we continue to insist on communication. Today the dots were put on the i, but it will be important to keep doing so, because in this case everyone is alert and awakened. The panic-mongering of the past few weeks was not a good thing. We are absolutely asking for clear and to the point to be communicated. We also continue to fear that as one goes through the switch-off plan with cities and municipalities and governors, it will lead to its own logic that will receive a lot of attention. This should not keep the focus from what needs to be done in the first place, in particular the non-completion plan. The exit plan will be discussed with the other boards from the Home Office. I am glad you said that the industry is also at the table. It's energy and business. Industry also plays an important role in this debate. Again, for us, the focus is on what needs to be done first: ensuring the preventive, the non-completion plan. Finally, we have indeed asked for a hearing to ensure that the communication moments remain clear and sharp, including in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u58	Mr President, Minister, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to thank you for the many answers that have been given. Clarity about security of supply remains our priority, including for CD&V. We are convinced that the current government has taken various measures to ensure security of supply, but unfortunately the sudden standstill of Objective 4 has caused us to face these problems. Entering winter without Target 3, Tihange 2 and Target 4 is the worst case scenario. I have proposed a lot of short-term measures and asked questions about them. The answers show that all of these have been investigated. You have answered it very openly and in good faith. I must sincerely thank you for that. It also gives confidence when you communicate about it openly, if you can motivate why something can or why something can't. It gives us confidence, as well as the citizens of our country. We would also like to respond to your call that if there are any short-term solutions that can provide a solution, that we can pass them on and that you will examine them. I also hope that you, as members of a government in current affairs, will continue to look for solutions in a difficult political context. I also call on the groups to look for solutions. I have heard a lot of comments about the past, including the choices made, but I have heard very few of my own solutions to the problems that arise in the short term. Security of supply must be the absolute priority. We need to avoid a blackout. It's good that the shutdown plan exists. It is better motivated and better choices were made. It will also be clearly communicated, which is a merit. However, we hope that the exit plan should not be applied. A switch-off plan can then be in order and justified on a technical level. However, it remains socially and economically irresponsible. It is irresponsible and will cost no matter how you turn it. The question will then be who will pay those costs and of course there is no answer to that. I ask for a clear communication about the switch-off plan to the cities and municipalities and the population. They need to be clearly explained how a possible risk of shutdown will be resolved. CD&V looks forward with interest to 3 September and closely follows up on the issue. The risk is real. Perhaps we should seize this moment to think further about our energy policy. The Wathelet plan is a first step. Choices were made. The next federal government will also have to make choices. CD&V has long been committed to concluding an energy pact in which a long-term energy policy is developed with all stakeholders. We hope that this can be achieved. I support the call to tackle the problems at European level because our country is small. We strive for energy diplomacy. Belgium will be too small to make all the choices. A decision at European level is always a long-term work. Perhaps we can think about a new Benelux initiative or cooperation with neighbouring countries to find out if energy policy can be pursued more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u59	Madam Chair, Mr. Chair, beyond what has been done, what has not been done, and what has not been completely done, as you pointed out, we can retain two points from what the government has said. First, in one of the first sentences you spoke, Madam Secretary of State, there is a risk of a shortage. Then, Mr. Wathelet, for those who still believed in it, the myth of nuclear infallibility collapsed. These two factors make us in a crisis situation, as you said. Or rather crisis management and fortunately. Nevertheless, there is a crisis. The historical mistake is to have given a blind confidence that nuclear power was 100% certain. Basically, today we are paying for this error, with consequences for the supply with potential power cuts; that is to be seen. Today, nuclear power has become the largest source of uncertainty with its 50%, perhaps more depending on the method of calculation. There are still a few points in your lines that require a reaction from me. If I understand correctly, the 3,500 MW coming from the import is guaranteed. In fact, no: it is a capacity and not a guarantee. They are not to be accounted for in the same way as others. Despite this, uncertainty remains real. Regularly quoting the 3,500 MW does not constitute a sufficient guarantee to take them into account in the same way as others. I therefore invite you to be careful about this aspect of the import. The second element concerns the precise timetable. Talking about autumn for further information remains a vague answer: the autumn ends on 21 December. Can you be more specific? It is not a question of inventing an answer, but of announcing a more precise timetable because the problem will already begin in November. Thirdly, even if I am aware that the answer will not be given here, you can send further information to the secretariat of the Committee. What about everything that happens and could happen, especially if Doel 3 and Tihange 2 cannot reopen, about the perception of the dismantling provisions, since it was planned for many more years? If these plants can no longer open, how are you going to make the necessary provisions for dismantling? Is a model already planned or still to be planned? This has a bearing on the price at very short notice, but in the absence of a reply, please forward it to the secretariat for further information! In conclusion, I heard some colleagues say that they were sufficiently reassured. As far as we are concerned, we remain concerned. If there are elements of response, many elements remain uncertain and you do not control them. Obviously, not everything is in your hands today! The only certainty for us is that more than ever, the energy transition is necessary and as far as this mix is concerned, we really need to move forward as Germany and others have done!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u60	First of all, I should like to congratulate Mr Wathelet on this magnificent relief plan, which will allow us to have an organized disaster instead of a accidental disaster. It is still a good thing, but it obviously does not solve the basic problem. I also note that you did not respond to the question of Seraing. If I understood correctly, this plant would be closed by Luminus, while being reopened as part of the plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u61	Let's not confuse everything. Vilvorde and Seraing are the two offers that we receive in terms of strategic reserve. The power station you're talking about will not be closed. She's well understood in the reserve. That's very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u62	I don't think so, but it seems to me that Luminus will close it and reopen it as part of the strategic reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u63	Mr Van Hees, what we cannot do in Belgium is to be in the market when we are interested and to be in the strategic reserve when it suits us. You are wrong that he has to get out of the market to enter the strategic reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u64	You confirm what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u65	No! It's not that, "close." We want to avoid closure, because we need all our capabilities to ensure security of supply. So it has to keep going. We do not want private companies to have butter and butter money, in that they would remain in the market when prices are high and they would take a small subsidy to guarantee the strategic reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u66	Does this plant work?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u67	For the moment, it remains available. This does not mean that it produces.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u68	It produces when we need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u69	She's in the market. A gas plant, Mr. Van Hees, doesn't run all the time. None! It's like you're asking me, "Is this wind turbine on the market?" Yes, but that's not why she's turning. I don't know; it depends on the wind. A gas power plant...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u70	It depends on the gas.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u71	No, it depends on the price! When it's profitable for them, they spin it, and when it's unprofitable, no. When a power plant is put under cocoon, it is no longer available. In other words, even if they wanted to operate it, they would be unable to do so, because they dismantled certain things and lack staff. They cannot, even if the market gives them a price signal. With the strategic reserve, they remain available on the market, but it is the state - through Elia - that allows them to spin or not. So they fit into a fully regulated system. What does "a fully regulated system" mean? This means that if at some point the price of electricity allowed an additional profitability to what we guarantee in the strategic reserve, the margin does not go to EDF-Luminus but goes to the State. This means that we are taking this centre out of the market and putting it in a fully regulated system. But if we hadn't put it in a fully regulated system, it would have completely shut down. That's clear! This would have further reduced the energy available on the market by 465 megawatts. We would have even worsened the risk of market shortages. That is the whole mechanism of the strategic reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u72	Beyond the Seraing plant, what I see today is that two myths are collapsing. Our colleague Mr Nollet speaks of the myth of the infallibility of nuclear power; there is also the myth of the infallibility of the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u73	He discovers that the market is fallible!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u74	The two concepts are intertwined. Nuclear energy is, of course, an essential element of profitability for Electrabel in particular. Two myths are collapsing. We can settle for it. It is an awareness today for many, I hope. Unfortunately, on the reality of things, we are still very far from the point of view. You yourself, Mr. Wathelet, say that if anyone knows a power plant for the strategic reserve, we're taking it. This means that, indeed, we are still largely dependent on the market. Not only for the strategic reserve, which is a tiny share of production, but even more for all energy production. I think that this problem will continue to arise beyond the winter of 2014-15, on the supply of electricity, on the risk of shortages as we know it for this winter, on the exit of nuclear power, on energy pricing issues. All these problems will not be resolved until the market is very strong in the energy sector. You were proposing earlier to take a look at Woluwé. Instead, I propose to target the removal of waste on the Berlaymont district to make the European Commission and the European institutions understand that the energy market dogma is not always as efficient as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u75	Do the Ministers wish to give some additional elements of a response?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u76	If there is a lesson, the PTB understood that the market was failing. It reassures me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u77	It strikes me with what ease a number of theories are being digested here. However, I would like to point out that we are not entirely in a free market in this area. When one operates in a market where prices are not free, it is difficult to speak of a free market.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u78	Madam President, to close, there is an additional element concerning Mr Nollet's question on Synatom. The Synatom mechanism provides that the operator remains responsible for the dismantling and feeding of Synatom. Even if Synatom does not have sufficient means to cover the dismantling, it is up to him to cover the differential. Thus, the palliative exists to maintain the responsibility of the operator: even if the plant does not operate, should it continue to feed the fund with these famous additional 5% of profitability and other? Yes, he remains responsible in the same way to operate and succeed in dismantling the plant that arrives at the end of life, whether it rotates or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u79	Mr Nollet, the committees will resume. A thousand and one subject will concern energy, including the important subject of dismantling. I therefore propose that we stick to this in our debate. It is my responsibility to thank all colleagues and ministers for the information provided. I now propose to study the order of business. In fact, additional requests were made during your interventions, ladies and gentlemen, including Elia and the Federal Nuclear Control Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u80	Mr. Thiébaut...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u81	I support the hearing of Elia and the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. It's really good at this moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u82	Are there any other proposals, other requests in the current debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u83	Madam President, I think it is interesting to stay close enough to the current problem. In that sense, I think that Elia and the FANC are the most interesting in the first place. That can be done in the very short term to resolve our more technical questions with them. I would, however, like to ask that representatives of the government be present, because it is important that this is discussed in a coordinated way. They also work together, so I guess this won't be a problem. However, I would like to ask the question. So this can be done in the very short term. I myself called for clarity on the exit plan, but I understand when the Minister says that he wants to inform the governors properly on 3 September. The next meeting on the exit plan can then be organised with the College of Governors and Home Affairs. These are two meetings which can take place in a logical order.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u84	Madam President, I just want to say that we are in complete agreement with that. I think we should work in two stages. Parliament is entitled to information on the exit plan, but I think it is up to the mayors and governors to look at these plans first and formulate their comments, and that it is only then for us to discuss them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u85	Madam President, in order to ensure that, within the framework of the organisation of work, questions can be resolved, in particular on Doel 4, which cannot be discussed in a public meeting, the meeting of the nuclear safety sub-committee should be scheduled. In this way, all questions that can only be asked in camera can be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u86	Mr Nollet, we are in the framework of an investigation by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. In case of closed meetings, the press is informed within ten minutes! I would like to avoid endangering an instruction in relation to an act that cannot yet be described as sabotage or something else.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u87	I was not referring to the investigation, but to the measures that were taken and those that were taken. I do not mention the investigation of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u88	I don't think it's necessary either!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u89	Colleague, I must also point out that the Nuclear Safety Commission does not yet exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u90	Mr President, its creation can be decided very simply here. There is an agreement in the Conference of Presidents on the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety. In fact, it has already been decided who will chair the subcommittee. This was part of the exercise made with the various group leaders. The present committee can therefore decide on the installation of the subcommittee here. I would at least do the installation of it, given the current situation. The decision to activate them for a particular problem can then be made later.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u91	We'll see about that later. We will do the installation, but we must ensure that we also follow the rules governing the setting up of the committee in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u92	Mr President, that is just what I am talking about. The Conference of Presidents decided that the subcommittee should be initiated. Technically speaking, it is the Committee on the Interior, which is now meeting to formalise its establishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u93	This must be done on the initiative of the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u94	That's what happened. It has even been decided that Mr Wollants will be chairman of the Subcommittee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that you work in a number of times. First, we will address Elia and the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. We must be aware that in the coming weeks we will have the parliamentary days of the groups. Since there is nothing next week, on 3 September, we could hold a joint meeting with these two bodies in the afternoon. Because they meet the governors in the morning. The week of September 8 will be filled with the parliamentary days of the N-VA, CD&V and Ecolo-Groen. We will therefore not be able to meet if we respect this programme. In the week of 15 September, we could hold further hearings, possibly with two Vice-Presidents. We could receive members of the College of Governors. Ministers would come, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u96	We could then explain what has been transmitted to the governors and how they intend to transfer this information to the various mayors. The first week you'd receive AFCN and Elia. On the week of the 15th, we would talk about communication with crisis centres. The governors will send whoever they want. It's their responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u97	Can we agree on this timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u98	And if the new government is formed, how will we do it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u99	Parliament is independent.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u100	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u101	On Friday, 19th, there will be group days. It will therefore be on Tuesday or Wednesday, depending on the availability of ministers and governors.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u102	I do not understand why suddenly the idea of discussing the emergency planning aspect on 3 September after the meeting with the governors has been abandoned. Why do we have to go over it for two weeks? The subject could be dealt with perfectly on 3 September. My proposal was to phase and, for example, to hear Elijah and the FANC next week and the governors on 3 September. However, if we do not meet for the first time on 3 September, then I see no reason to split the discussion and wait until 15 September to hear the College of Governors and the Minister on that aspect. I think it is important to work in a coherent way, to recognise the governors in their role and to allow that consultation to take place. The feedback to Parliament can then take place on the same day.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u103	I support that proposal. I believe that it is healthy to continue working at once and to get to work on it as quickly as possible. In the end, what is the point of waiting two weeks for that to happen? We should work at once; the subject is important enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u104	I would point out that the governors receive the information in the morning by Elia and the ministers. Until 2:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u105	Either we want something interesting and have information and feedback from the governors, or we want to have a moment of press. If we want to have a moment in the press, I understand that Mr Calvo wants to have a thematic day so that he can spend the whole day in the media. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u106	Even better! Three, they'll have the information. I can swear to you that with regard to the information that we will also have to discuss with the governors, everything is not digested and simple to do. We will have questions from the governors and they too will have questions. They will have to digest the information they receive on the 3rd and know how they will transmit it and pass it on to their local communities and their provinces.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u107	I would point out to colleagues that there is the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. This is a separate debate. Elia is in the relief plan – we agree, he can come back on the 15th with the governors – but Elia is also all the safety and security of supply outside the relief plan: in relation to strategic reserves, in relation to the long-term plan, in relation to all the questions you have asked today. We can invite these two institutions on the 3rd, not even to mention the plan of relief or by referring to it already. If you want to bring back Elia the week of the 15th... I would like it to happen the following week but there are group days. I'm available. The governors will have digested and transmitted the information. We will put them together with Elia and the ministers, if necessary. If you want to work the week of the 8th, the groups can decide, but we must respect the parliamentary days of the groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u108	It is important to seek consensus, so that is good for us. Can the subcommittee also be set up without deciding that they must meet? Is it enough that this committee states that the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety exists, in line with the decision of the Conference of Presidents? Then it's already taken care of.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-08-22-54-commissie-ic003x.u109	We'll check that out, Mr. Calvo. We're finishing work. Colleagues, let's stick to those agreements. We've come to the end of the meeting. Have a nice evening to everyone.
