ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u2	Mr President, I would like to take the floor on the order of business. I want to address two elements and I will split them up to keep the conversation clear. Mr President, Mr Khattabi has put a question to the Prime Minister about the contradictory statements made by Deputy Prime Minister Reynders and Secretary of State Mr Sleurs on the savings made by the federal cultural and scientific institutions. It was not by chance that she had addressed that question to the Prime Minister. In fact, it is customary in Parliament, when two members of the government disagree very explicitly and in this case even roll on the streets, that the Prime Minister responds.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u3	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u4	Just before the beginning of the sitting, we heard, even though it is even different in the tables distributed to our banks, that you would have unilaterally decided to address that question to Minister Reynders.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u5	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u6	I would like to ask you about this, because that is absolutely not the custom.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u7	Mr Calvo, it is commendable that you are carrying the Prime Minister in such a way. If a minister is not present, he may be replaced by someone else, for example by a deputy prime minister, as agreed. Since the Minister responsible is here, I do not think we can do better than leave the Minister responsible to speak on this matter. Mr Calvo, I suggest that we leave it at that. I understand very well that you want to question anyone, but we respect the powers. I will give you the floor once more, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u8	If the Secretary of State says that there is no saving and the Deputy Prime Minister says that there is saving, then there is a disagreement. Who else but the Prime Minister can settle such a disagreement? Who else? Who's the Prime Minister? Mr Reynders, Mr Michel or Mrs Sleurs? In this House, it is customary for the Prime Minister to settle or respond to differences of opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u9	I repeat that we will leave the Minister responsible to speak. If you think there is another problem, then you may be able to take the next step, but this incident is closed. What was your second point, Mr Calvo?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u10	Mr President, this morning we read the newspaper articles on the welfare theft and LuxLeaks. I would remind you that this morning our group delivered a letter to you, to Mr Van Rompuy and to Mrs Lalieux concerning the organisation of hearings. Since it concerns several committees and Mr Van Rompuy brings together the Finance Committee at 4 p.m., I would like to draw your attention to that. I hope you have discussed this with Mr Van Rompuy so that the hearings on this scandalous affair can take place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u11	I have seen this letter and I have approved it, but that is of course a matter for the committee chairmen, Mrs Lalieux and Mr Van Rompuy, who must enter into an agreement on that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u12	Mr Calvo, we have a sitting in Room 6 at 16:00 on the order of business of our Finance Committee. Each group is invited. I therefore propose that you raise that point there. We'll look into that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u13	Mr President, of course I agree to convene the Committee on Infrastructure and to discuss the information published in the newspaper Le Soir. Since the Deputy Prime Minister is present, I will try to have him come to committee next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u14	Mr President, I assume that committee chairman Van Rompuy also received my letter this morning, asking for hearings to be held on the LuxLeaks. I also assume that there will be a large majority at 16:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u15	That's a problem that's been dealt with. We shall now proceed to the oral questions, including today's demonstration.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, I come back from De Brouckère Square, where I have been able to attend one of the biggest events of the last twenty years. More than 130 000 people gathered in Brussels, this is a figure that we haven't seen in a long time. This shows how deep the concern is in the head of all workers in Belgium. Many workers have told me about two measures that they find really unacceptable. First, there is your decision to apply an index jump for which, in a first phase, your government told us that it would not affect the workers. Then the government turned around and announced that it would be 130, 150 or 160 euros! Then there is the measure that wants people to work up to 67 when there are nearly 600,000 young people looking for work in our country! Prime Minister, my question is simple. In the last few weeks, you've kept saying that you're reaching out to social consultation, but I have to say that you want to be strong. You challenged the trade unions, you said it would be difficult for them to mobilise the workers. The street proves the opposite today! I'd like to call you to reason. I would like to call on this government of the right to a halt of lucidity. The social movement will not weaken in the coming weeks. The social movement is just beginning. In the past, he has managed to push back more than one minister, more than one government and, more specifically, a right-wing government. Mr Prime Minister, do you intend to step back in order to put in place a policy that really serves workers and not a policy that serves all your friends, whom we can call today incivians, who have gone to Luxembourg to escape the tax system and who are helping to ruin our national economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u17	Mr President, I would like to speak to the colleague of the PTB-GO! Tell him to enjoy this moment. That's not common. In the new setting of the President-in-Office, you must remain there and we can systematically look each other in the eye. I will do that to you, because after hearing your speech, I find that the class struggle is alive and well. I wanted to start with a quote from a Dutch PVDA member, Mr van Dam, who said: "The people prefer the inconveniences of the status quo over fear of change." I think that this quote contains a lot of truth and shows a certain sense of conservation, a certain conservatism, especially in difficult times. That happens in a spirit of wanting to preserve what one has, the acquired rights, without too much shock and without too much change, because that is what one is afraid of. Let me take a look at the fellow officers of the N-VA. It is not the power of change that is being preached here, but the fear of change. I understand that reflex, but I think he's wrong. Those who do not adapt to a globalised economy are adapted, and often with much harder shocks and with greater inconveniences. Soft healers make stinky wounds. Today it is about the purchasing power of the people who work. In this respect, let us agree on creating more jobs; then we will create more purchasing power. Let us talk about working a little longer, for people who are healthy; then we will create more purchasing power. I'm looking at you, Prime Minister. Your government has democratic legitimacy. You have gained Parliament's confidence on the basis of a recovery programme. You are supported by four parties which, moreover, have made progress in the last four elections. You may doubt that, but the four parties that support this coalition have all made progress in the elections, to the regret of whom it envies. A government needs not only democratic legitimacy but also moral legitimacy. Prime Minister, I think you should constantly explain what you are doing and go into confrontation and dialogue with those who are testing your policy today. That is the point of social dialogue. Today we have received a signal from more than 100 000 people who have come to Brussels to speak. My question is how will you organise this social dialogue in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, I also come back from the demonstration. You didn't participate, but you know that more than 125,000 people from all over the country, worried, shocked, angry, afraid of not being able to get out of it tomorrow, of not having enough purchasing power, have demonstrated today on the street. The number is huge! You must know this: austerity harms people, the economy, only to preserve the wealthy. Even economists and your Minister of Finance recognize that there will be a loss of purchasing power. Your measures contribute to social regression, to the accentuation of inequalities. If the information I have is correct, you invited the unions at 5:00 p.m., but to tell them what? Prime Minister, you need to listen to citizens' demands and be responsive. With a view to relaunching the dialogue, I ask you to tell them that you will give up the index jump. It's not too late. It's time, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u19	Prime Minister, what more do you need to open your eyes? Today, more than a hundred thousand people are arguing against your government and against your policies. Why are they on the streets, Prime Minister? Because they think it is unfair that they, the ordinary families, should cover your expenses and because you do not make your savings on the big capital, not on the big assets, not even on the fraudsters and on the big shareholders. That's why people are coming out today. Prime Minister, you say that the index jump is needed to create jobs. This is an immediate response to Mr Dewael's statement. Of course we are in favour of change, but the index jump has already been tried out, Mr Dewael. If you would like to listen, all studies indicate that with an index jump, jobs are created much less than if one were to come to the change now, a very targeted wage burden reduction would be implemented, funded by a tax on the profits of the large assets. All the studies show that. They create a lot more jobs with that. Then let the change apply and do so, Prime Minister: also address the great capabilities for your policies to create more jobs. Do not affect the purchasing power of ordinary families, because that will be negative. Prime Minister, I do not need to say any more; the people on the street have already said it all today. First of all, Prime Minister, I hope that you will take the signal that has been given today seriously. Really serious. It is not just the trade unions who have argued, today the ordinary people also came out on the street. I hope you take that signal seriously. Secondly, I hope you are also prepared to review all the savings you have planned, as well as the index jump. Thirdly, I hope that you will also appeal to the great powers and the fraudsters to share fairly the burdens we face today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's mobilisation is massive. There are tens of thousands of people on the street, citizens of all professional categories, families, pensioners, who do not understand the measures decided on in terms of pensions or wages – planed –, health care – more expensive – or taxes – increased. They are angry, Prime Minister, because you are presenting the situation to them by asking them to do more. Yet you are talking to people who are already doing a lot of work and who are paying their taxes. It is all the more shocking when, today, wealthy Belgian personalities, big companies, multinationals are pointed to escape 90% of the tax thanks to tax engineering. Not all street protesters have the capacity to build a golden future in Luxembourg or in any other tax haven. I recently heard your Finance Minister – absent today – proclaim that "25 euros a month, 300 euros a year are peanuts". Prime Minister, let me tell him that, for families, even when both parents work, this money can be very valuable when it is impossible for them to tie both ends at the end of the month. Prime Minister, yes, it is clear that reforms are needed. At the same time, the measures you have chosen lead to a decrease in purchasing power, thus a decrease in consumption; they are clearly counterproductive. The unions say so, but not only them, I am thinking of the Union des Classes Moyennes (UCM), Bruno Colmant or the IMF, which cannot be accused of driving for the left. In the face of this mobilization, Prime Minister, the government cannot remain deaf, blind and mute. Where's that tense hand you've been announcing for four weeks? What consultation schedule, what measures do you intend to table on the negotiating table to propose more fairness in efforts? What initiatives will you take to achieve more tax justice in Belgium, but also at European level, in terms of tax harmonisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u21	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our Group Ecolo-Groen has just returned. We didn't just happen to be at the Stock Exchange, where the trouble started. The people who have been on the streets today are still paying the price for the financial crisis that you were unable to manage properly, Mr Reynders. We stood there because we wanted to give the people who came on the streets today a heartbeat. We wanted to say very clearly to them that, unlike the governments in our country, we are on their side. I was there, Mr Dewael, and I can better estimate who was present and why they were on the streets. I have not seen a demonstration of conservative, fearful people; quite the contrary. What you're saying there is pertinently incorrect. You weren't there, and you'd better not talk about it. What I have seen is that conservatism and radicalism are in your government and your majority, but not among the people who just got out on the street. I've seen a lot of young people. I have not only seen people who say that they absolutely want to take a bridge pension next year. I've seen a lot of young people worried about the future. Of course, there were a lot of union shirts. Of course, there were many green, red and blue hoes. But there were also nurses, teachers and conductors. There were also a lot of people without a union membership card. Together they were 120 000. Prime Minister, you can only give them an answer. We can only ask questions from the opposition. You're the captain of the Belgian boat. The ball is now in your camp. You'll see the unions at 5:00 p.m. What will your answer be? What do you do with 120,000 people on the street? What signal will you give later? Prime Minister, if you really want to give social dialogue a chance, you will have to withdraw a number of measures. You must say that you will not make the index jump. You must say, then, that this wage freeze will not come. You must say that the tax shift will be there. If you do that, people will come to the streets, not to argue, but to applaud, because that would mean that reform in our country can also be done in a green and social way. That is our conviction and the conviction of all those protesters, Mr Dewael.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u22	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many people have raised questions and concerns today. The more than 100 000 protesters today are the interpreter of these concerns, especially because they are called upon to make difficult efforts, such as an index jump. However, this index jump is largely compensated by the government for the low incomes and middle incomes; the minimum income is even up 1 % net. This is done to protect the purchasing power of the lowest incomes. There are important social corrections to that index jump. That index jump should be used to create jobs. That's what we and the government need to do: jobs, jobs, and jobs. Giving more people a job is the best purchasing power increase and the best guarantee for affordable social security. We therefore expect a clear commitment from employers that the resources released by the index jump will be used to protect jobs and create new jobs. It would be best for the government to consult with the social partners as soon as possible, resulting in clear agreements on how and at what level in each sector the resources are used in the best possible way to accelerate the creation of jobs. That is our agreement with the people we are calling for. We ask that the funds released be used for work after consultation. It's not a gift for the employers. We ask them to take up their responsibilities and use the resources for more jobs. The index jump is therefore not conditional for us. The use of the funds released must be clearly at the heart of the social dialogue over the coming weeks and months. We don't want a social blackout. You'll be receiving the unions soon. We ask you to bring all partners around the table as soon as possible. What initiatives will you take to bring the social partners to the table and what agenda will you propose?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u23	Mrs Onkelinx, Mr Di Rupo, I am glad that you are in the hemisphere now, because I understand that you have also argued against the consequences of your policy. Prime Minister, I note that there is unrest. There is unrest among those who have argued today. However, there is also concern about those who have not argued today, concerns about their job, about the economy and about the consequences of the actions that are taking place today. So there is concern on both sides. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must overcome this concern. That is our task, the task of the government, which is finally taking courageous decisions. It is up to us to explain why we are implementing the reforms. Prime Minister, I understand that you will be meeting with the trade unions at five o'clock. It is up to us to explain why we are reforming. We do not reform, because we find it so funny, we reform, because it just has to be. Why do you have to do that? Mr Tobback said it in 2013, we have to be honest with the people. The politicians must finally be honest with the people. We have to say we're not getting there with the Silver Fund. We will have to take a number of measures to ensure that social security is affordable and that our children and grandchildren have a pension later on. Prime Minister, my question to you is what is the agenda for social dialogue? It is the first or second time you have received the social partners. I believe in social dialogue. That is also very clear in the coalition agreement. You probably have an agenda for social consultation. Can you tell me more about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your comments. In this coalition agreement, social dialogue is a crucial and very important issue for us. This consultation is a very strong tradition in our country. The whole government is convinced that social dialogue must be protected and even strengthened. In the coming days, weeks and months, this will be a very important point. I would just like to point out to all colleagues that the priority of this government is extremely high, is extremely clear: it is the creation of jobs and the protection of existing jobs. For a very simple reason: our conviction is that the best guarantee of funding for the duration of our social protections, pensions, health care, accidents at work, solidarity requires the creation of additional jobs. We have chosen concrete measures. Our economic model needs to be strengthened. This is a very important question of responsibility for our collective future. It is true that we assume the will, through a government agreement, to strengthen the capacity of small, medium and large enterprises, to preserve existing jobs and to create additional jobs. And it is true that we are taking steps in this direction, expressing the desire, the commitment, the willingness to mobilise these financial means for job creation, innovation and training. As far as pensions are concerned, the truth is that this is a question of responsibility. Everyone in this assembly knows that every month ten thousand people are more entitled to a pension. A few years ago, EUR 25 billion was budgeted in our country for the payment of pensions. This year, this amount has risen to EUR 37 billion. This means, therefore, that with the reality of rising life expectancy, we have a duty and a responsibility to make decisions to ensure that pensions are financed. I want to make it clear that we want to take and implement these measures in a strong logic of social dialogue. We ask, wish and hope that all social and economic actors also assume their responsibilities. I confirm once again, in the strongest, most solemn and indisputable way that the whole government has its big arms open, has the hand out for social consultation. We have taken the decision to invite the social partners this afternoon. This followed a large number of informal contacts that were taken in parallel with the government negotiations and after the government was established. We will propose to discuss a roadmap with all the social partners in order to define precisely the different spaces for job creation, competitiveness, innovation, the labour market, pension reform in order to have the capacity to undertake responsibilities. The government hears, listens to and respects the legitimate concerns expressed. We also hear anger, doubts. Our duty is to explain our shared vision by a democratic, legitimate majority. We want and ask that everyone, who is a political leader, a citizen, a social actor and an economic actor, take his or her destiny into his or her own hands to undertake with responsibility the rational, reasonable and necessary reforms to guarantee our social protections, to which we attach great importance, as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u25	Prime Minister, you repeat with the regularity of the clock that people do not understand your measures. I believe the opposite is true: people understand your measures very well. People understand very well that it is illogical to ask them to work longer, while there are so many young people who want nothing more than to get to work. That doesn't make any sense. People understand very well that an index jump will not create jobs because in our country wages are not the problem, but part of the solution. The National Bank clearly says that the problem is the decline in purchasing power in Belgium and that the economy is therefore simply stuck. What you are doing is simply applying the same measures that have been applied in Germany and the Netherlands. What is happening in these countries? GDP in the Netherlands has fallen by 4% and in Germany the economy is stagnating. Prime Minister, it is time to really start our economy. We have proposed a cactus plan, which will enable you to raise billions in the banks and in the major assets. Go get the money there and not the workers and servants of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u26	Firstly, the leader of the Green Group, Mr Calvo, gives a remarkable interpretation of parliamentary democracy: anyone who has not participated in the demonstration, who has not come to the streets to argue, must keep his mouth shut here in Parliament. That is a curious interpretation of parliamentary democracy. I don't know where you get so much shame. Your attempts to pursue a union are truly unbelievable. Secondly, I have too much respect for the demonstrators and for their commitment to try to shamelessly recover them. It is a disgrace to the social dialogue that the opposition, one after the other, here in Parliament, constantly says that it is its people who walk on the streets. I take these people's commitment, whether from the trade union side, from associations or individual citizens, very seriously. In a parliamentary democracy, the government defines a framework, with the approval of Parliament. For its implementation, I would ask that social dialogue be given every opportunity. That is our position.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have a particular sense of consultation and dialogue. Definitely, you don't hear the citizens who were on the street today. As for your slogan of the return effects of tomorrow's job creation, I would be tempted to say that these are incantations. It is clear that we want job creation. It's not new. You're not the first to say that. But it's not by diminishing purchasing power that you're going to create the recovery. You're just going to create poverty. You are creating fear among citizens and this important element will prevent this recovery. Mr. Dewael spoke earlier of a courageous attitude. Do you think it's brave to hit the weakest?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u28	Prime Minister, you do have a strange interpretation of the social dialogue. I would like to make it clear to you that social dialogue is more than just a review of points and commas. You say that reforms are necessary. No one from the opposition has said that there is no need for reform. Of course, the reforms are necessary. I would advise you to follow Mr Dewael's position, in particular to move towards a real change. You mentioned two things. First of all, you're saying we need to create more jobs. Your own Planning Agency calculates that there are other ways to create many more jobs. However, you will have to levy a capital gain tax. You don't want to touch that. You are stuck in an old recipe, namely the ordinary people, burdening ordinary families with an index jump. An old recipe, Mr Dewael. It is indeed time for progressive matters. A second point is pensions. People have to work longer for less retirement. How will you finance that? You haven't said anything about that yet. The Pension Commission is asking for the large assets to be paid more so that those pensions are insured. Prime Minister, what you are saying here are great words. Changes are needed, but changes are also needed in the way you burden people. You should not always take the easiest path unilaterally by taxing ordinary people without touching the others, the great abilities and the fraudsters.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u29	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Your words on social dialogue must now succeed actions! It is not enough to have coffee with trade unions or all the social partners. There is a need for real dialogue, real social dialogue, followed by measures for greater equity in efforts and measures to support job creation. But there is still a need to agree on the type of measures. There is a need for effective measures that support growth and not slow consumption, and thus potentially growth. Decisions and measures for more justice also in tax matters. I will leave the word of the end to Yves Leterme, who spoke this morning on the radio, saying how he felt that citizens were right to ask for more fairness.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is clear that we must reform. No one's questioning that. However, you seem to suggest that the opposition is asking for everything to be left to the past. I'll send you a version of our program. It's got a lot of changes. That was also the message of a lot of people on the street today. Your government, however, has a credibility problem. You argue that your government wants to create jobs. However, a government that continues to tax labour in such a way is not credible when it claims to create jobs. A government that states that everyone must make an effort is not credible when we look at the newspapers today and find that we are facing billions of euros of welfare theft, while your government is looking at it. Thirdly, your government is not credible when it comes to social dialogue. Your government has already decided an index jump and the wages are blocked. You only want to sit at the table about the points and commas. I can see and hear that the manifestations are escalating. You must take responsibility in your capacity as Prime Minister. When it is argued in this country, that is your responsibility and the responsibility of the government. The demonstration is the result of the current coalition agreement. At 5:00 p.m., you'll meet the unions. Please inform them that a number of measures are being reduced. Prime Minister, I would suggest that you send the rest of your government to the Bozar. Let them listen to Thomas Piketty so they can't fucking say there's no alternative anymore. After all, what you are doing is making a choice against the workers. There is an alternative, namely a fair capital contribution from everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u31	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. It is a good thing that social dialogue is being set in motion so quickly in order to make clear agreements on the use of people's efforts to create jobs. It is much more than points and commas, Mr Calvo, about jobs and about the use of resources to create the jobs. Mr Prime Minister, we would also like to give you the following. You will not be surprised by our group. CD&V is the idea that Minister Van Overtveldt launched yesterday in De Morning very affectionately to use a capital gain tax to strengthen a tax reduction and create more jobs. He therefore has our full support for the idea to be further developed and for any proposals to be made to Parliament. The above only proves that the basis for this is growing stronger every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u32	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your clear answer. I believe in your recipes, I believe in the recipes contained in the coalition agreement. I do not believe in the recipes of Mrs Onkelinx and Mrs Temmerman. After all, what is the result of 25 years of policy? We have the highest public debt in Europe, we have a government debt of more than 54% and we have a budget deficit of more than 3%. I have heard on the left the debate on the great capabilities. The next series of oral questions deals with the great powers. Mrs Temmerman, however, do not forget that these great abilities include the trade unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u33	Mr President, Prime Minister, after the Offshore Leaks, after the Panamagate, we are discovering Luxembourg Leaks! Are we really finding out? Not so sure! It has long been known that the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, our friends and our Grand-Ducal partners are blaming our public finances. We will remember the file of the front companies, the file of the license plates, two files among others. Today, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, which is obviously tarred, threatened in its financial position, due in particular to the legitimate attacks on bank secrecy, decides to reconvert itself into a policy of tax dumping that is all-out and aggressive. What exactly are we talking about? We are talking about very precise legislative arrangements aimed in particular at circumventing certain European directives in order to attract a number of financial flows, bearing wealth themselves, to which he wishes to be able to propose exorbitant taxation which is particularly advantageous, if not null. There is also a particularly opaque system of advance rulings to offer agreements in complete discretion from the point of view of other States. The fact is clear – the work of specialised journalists must be welcomed: Belgium, like other countries, is losing billions of euros. Our Luxembourg neighbours are losing billions of euros. Your Finance Minister asked: "Where does this deterioration in the deficit identified by the European Commission come from?" Mr Geens, Mr Chastel, responsible for Finance and Budget respectively. I guess they enjoyed it! What I am telling you, Prime Minister, is that you want to refresh the Benelux. All right! But in concrete terms, with what firmness are you going to question the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg to put an end to its practices and to bring a dossier to the level of the European Commission to put an end to these practices which are harmful to our social system?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u34	Mr Prime Minister, I will not have been the only one who, when yesterday's first reports about the Luxembourg Leaks, felt deep indignation, even anger. The fact that Belgian top companies, which set up the richest Belgian families to avoid billions of euros in taxes, can only hurt someone. If I understand correctly, this government wants to see a general reduction in the burden that Belgian top companies have to offer, a general reduction in the burden paid by the people who are on the streets today, who are paid by the index jump. It is those top companies that are getting something extra from this government, although they are avoiding our tax system. It's a disgrace! What I am really worried about, Prime Minister, is the first response of the Minister of Finance. I heard him say this morning that it was constructions that weren't illegal. Well, I'm afraid to dispute that. For Belgian legislation, these are illegal constructions. Under the previous government, we have made the anti-abuse clause stricter, precisely in order to deal with these structures. By the way, the N-VA Group voted against it. It's a finance minister from the N-VA who said this morning that there would be nothing illegal about it. That's what I'm worried about, Prime Minister. I would therefore like to hear your views as Prime Minister. Are these constructions illegal or not? Are they not worth being very thoroughly examined and dealt with? I'd like to ask you one last question. Yesterday you met your Luxembourg colleague. Did this theme come up yesterday? Then what came out of your conversation with him?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u35	Mr President, Prime Minister, it was shocking to hear this morning that an international group of journalists came up with far-reaching secret tax constructions in Luxembourg. It was also shocking that a large number of Belgian families and companies were involved. Apparently, it's about rulings. Rulings are a tax avoidance, and avoiding tax is not a crime. It is true that it is difficult to justify ethically that this can happen. Moreover, I found it very difficult to digest that a Belgian public company, Belgacom, is included in the list. I am therefore pleased that in the current coalition agreement there is something like the caiman tax that can provide a solution to this problem. However, this will not be the only solution. A second major problem is the current high tax burden. The higher the tax burden, the faster people want to avoid tax. We must also work on this. Ladies and gentlemen, I also believe that it is very little European loyalty that a Member State can make secret agreements to avoid taxes that will cause other Member States to lose billions of euros. I therefore found it very cynical that the current President of the European Commission has led that country in recent years. Minister, I have two questions. Firstly, in what time will the government introduce this caiman tax at Belgian level? Will this work be done? Secondly, will this government ensure that the European Commission will act when certain Member States conclude secret rulings? After all, all rulings must be public.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u36	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday evening our group took note of a large-scale tax avoidance by companies and made this possible through Luxembourg rulings. Some 26 Belgian companies would be involved. As a result, our country would have missed several tax revenues. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that my party and I are very indignant about this fact. We are really shocked that this is still possible after all the efforts this Parliament has made in the past. A number of years ago, the committee of inquiry into the large tax fraud cases made a number of clear recommendations. There were more than 104 directives which were incorporated into Belgian legislation by several State Secretarys. These 104 directives have led to a stricter approach to such constructions in their own country. No one among us could suspect, however, that in a neighbouring country, close to us in Luxembourg, administrations would be helping to rebuild such structures to attract large capitals from various countries and thus allow them to emerge from the tax dance in their own country. Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we find it hard to believe that a friendly country has used this method effectively. We must act against this by all means and ask the Prime Minister very clearly to take three initiatives. An initial initiative is that you ask your Luxembourg colleague for these files and forward them to the Belgian administration, so that they can be taxed and tried there. A second question. The Cayman tax is important in these constructions. This tax is a viewing tax for taxable reserves transferred from one country to another through tax havens. We must be able to see through this and tax it in our country. When will you implement the Cayman tax? There is a third question, but this requires a European approach, and a country cannot do so alone. What initiatives will you or the Minister of Finance take to tackle this large-scale tax fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u37	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today tens of thousands of people are coming to the streets with the message that the strongest should bear the heavy burden. We support that message. Some of those very strong shoulders are very creative. If they're called upon to do that, they'll have a lot of fun talking about tax avoidance, no problem. This morning several prominent people have said it, and our Belgian tax administration is carrying out processes around it: one can also talk about tax evasion. This is not difficult to understand when people know that in Luxembourg there are more nameplates than desk chairs. Not exactly that kind of thing to believe there really are so many decision-making centres there. All this is done with the knowledge of a neighbouring country, a Member State of the European Union. No distant Cayman island destination, a small movement by train, or with a Porsche, is enough. On the one hand there is the good taxpayer, on the other hand the small category that says that paying taxes is something for the others. Prime Minister, you have a role to play when it comes to the European story. We have nothing to gain from fiscal competition, tax competition between Member States. Every treasury, every public government needs extra money for pensions, social security, the functioning of the economy and for its own public services. The fact that people in Luxembourg hardly pay taxes on profits realised in the Belgian economy is vengeful. It is therefore unacceptable that the Luxembourg tax authorities and some companies have caused Belgium to miss billions. That is unacceptable, all the more so because all the evaded taxes are ultimately to be paid by our SMEs, our families, our citizens. It will therefore be necessary to act at European level, and also at Belgian level, the tax reforms to make taxation fairer are urgently being discussed. Prime Minister, I have three questions. How many billion have these Luxembourg constructions already cost us? Will you sue this European? Will you work with the government to speed up the comprehensive tax reform, with the very strong shoulders and great abilities bearing the burden?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to provide a number of information. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I attended a bilateral meeting in Luxembourg with my Luxembourg colleague, Mr Xavier Bettel, in the presence of the Luxembourg Minister for Finance. Financial transparency and the exchange of information in the field of taxation were, of course, important issues in our discussion. It was also yesterday that the Prime Minister was given the opportunity to confirm that his government's political will was to implement the necessary adaptations and the adoption of legislation relating to the relevant European directives. This is the first point I wanted to make to tell you strongly about the Belgian Government's willingness to address this issue, both bilaterally with the Luxembourg government and parliament, but also within the European framework with the European Commission. I will be asked to meet the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, very soon. We will put this important subject on the agenda in these two dimensions because we share the emotion and the conviction that these tax practices, when opaque and when they lead to tax escaping the perception of states, are reprehensible. We condemn these tax practices that are not acceptable. The message is clear, it seems to me. Finally, some have pointed out that this government did not wait for the revelations last night at 10:00 p.m. to take initiatives. The viewing fee is part of the solution in this respect. This means that the political will of this government is to avoid and oppose these constructions. That is a clear political choice. You have asked me about the deadlines within which we wish to implement this transparency tax. We are all mobilized. The Minister of Finance works with his teams and will shortly come to the Council of Ministers to present projects on the subject. As soon as possible, parliamentary debates can take place in order to implement these taxes. In addition, the Minister of Finance has already asked his services to conduct the necessary investigations on a number of files that have been revealed. This is done in parallel, with clear respect for the separation of powers, with certain judicial procedures already under way on the subjects in question. I conclude by telling you the government's determination to ensure that the tax rules are respected fairly here and throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u39	Prime Minister, of which act! Nevertheless, we will return in a few months; we will return in a semester; we will come back in a year to see very concretely how the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has put an end to these tax practices which are harmful to our public finances. We will see if their advance ruling system has suddenly become more transparent. We will see if they have reformed their legislation to avoid circumventing certain European directives and attracting certain aggressive tax schemes to them, but above all, Prime Minister, we will see if the indigence of your government agreement in the fight against tax fraud and financial crime will finally find a remedy, since you tell us in this forum that you want to make the fight against tax fraud and financial crime a priority! Let me doubt it! The fact today is that we are battling workers and households with unfair taxes and that, unfortunately, your government agreement announces that it will not be a priority to fight tax evasion and financial crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u40	Mr President, I have two reservations. Firstly, I would like to address the N-VA Group, which is, as it were, sending the message that it is very bad that taxes are so high and that we have to understand these structures because the escape routes to Luxembourg are almost the logic itself. It is really reprehensible to say that here. It has nothing whatsoever to do with it, and we must absolutely reject such reprehensible statements here. Then, Prime Minister, I turn to you. I have heard you, like the majority parties, talk about the caiman tax, which would solve that problem. That is not true, because the Cayman tax is not about dealing with such structures of multinationals, but about dealing with asset management in private individuals, and that is something else. Our current legislation does contain anti-abuse provisions that you can call in today to have research carried out. However, I have not heard any of the majority parties speak of this. So, Prime Minister, I fear that a way is being sought here to put things off. We are waiting for the caiman tax, which will not change the situation, so that the big fish escape again.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this case we can already solve part of the problem, although it is clear that it will not solve everything. I hope that, together with my fellow Members, we will be able to work constructively on this in the Finance Committee. We will also ask our finance minister to do so as soon as possible. In response to the question put by colleagues from the PS, I suggest that we discuss this issue in the Benelux context. Finally, it is true that the tax burden in Belgium is high. Does that have anything to do with anything? No, because we do not approve of such things as tax evasion. We too want to deal with this. However, when the pressure is so high, the temptation is also very great to participate in such constructions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u42	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your very clear language. It is clear that this government wants to tackle such tax evasion hard and to combat it by all means. You have sent an important signal here today in the Chamber. We will examine these dossiers by all means and hope to be able to bring them to a successful conclusion. Mr Vanvelthoven, you referred to Mr Crombez's proposal, at the end of the previous legislature, to introduce the so-called caiman tax. Now, I suggest that you think for a moment and wait until the draft laws implementing this caiman tax are ready. After all, you are talking about the light version, which Mr Crombez wanted to implement at that time, while using this look-through tax you want to find out in every way where taxable reserve is transferred from one country to another in order to get the tax dance. That is the task we are giving this government, and that is also the commitment it has made, in order to deal with such structures and tax the money here.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u43	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your commitment in this matter. It is absolutely clear that this government does not approve of such practices. For us, it is not acceptable for the rules of the game to be drawn up à la tête du klant. We are not talking about an exposed back door, we are really talking about a large exit gate, which is used by those who are most obstinate. We hope that you will work with the government as a whole, in public enterprises and in all large companies. The Minister of Finance will now undoubtedly take on strong dossiers, check them carefully and respond where necessary, because he himself said that he thinks these practices are unethical. I conclude from this that making a fair tax, making an added value tax and making a capital gain tax will be regarded as very ethical. And I say to you that if we want to remain below 3% budget deficit, there will be no other choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u44	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for accepting, among other things, my request that the leader of the Kuwaiti Muslim Brotherhood, Tareq Al-Suwadian, should refuse access to our country. Too long and too often this has not been the case and our country was a free haven for such fundamentalist hate preachers. That's different now, and that's how it's supposed to be. Unfortunately, that is not enough. Tareq Al-Suwadian is not the only hate preacher who would be speaking at Tour & Taxis next weekend, at that famous Muslim fair, organized by an organization that is very close to the Muslim brothers. I am thinking of Tariq Ramadan, Yacob Mahi and Ahmed Jaballah, Tunisian and other hate preachers, who tell fundamentalist talk, call for violence and support organisations such as Hamas, a terrorist organisation also recognised by our country. They will speak there. I do not know which writings will be distributed, but I hope that your services will closely monitor what happens and is told and disseminated at that Muslim fair, so that our country, and certainly our capital Brussels, cannot become a hotbed of fundamentalism. Firstly, what initiatives will you take to ensure that this is monitored, with control and all that goes with it? Secondly, has there been an investigation into the speakers I have listed and who are also known as fundamentalist and radical? Finally, do you intend to deny access to our country, alongside Tareq Al-Suwadian, to other speakers who are expected to attend that fair?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u45	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, your reaction followed a letter we sent to you and the Belgian League's statement against anti-Semitism (LBCA). We, of course, appreciated your clear and clear reaction: not to the visa, not to the arrival of the Kuwaiti preacher Tareq Al-Suwaidan, close to Hamas. I won't go back to his resume, you know him. Having said that, we are very surprised that your services felt that they had nothing to blame for the other speakers at this Brussels fair. Yet their speech is just as frightening. Mr. Ahmed Jaballah was quoted. I will quote Ratib Nabulsi, a well-known preacher who calls for the death penalty for homosexuals. That's all! There is also Tariq Ramadan, the theologian and the theorist of the Islamic State, a member of the Muslim Brotherhood, who defends the idea of the Islamic framework of divine origin to organize the states. Deputy Prime Minister, this fair is, in our view, a façade for Islamists. So what is your Government waiting for to deny access to our territory to those defenders of terrorism, from the application of the sharia to the organization of the State?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u46	Mijnheer de voorzitter, collega's, I would like first of all to point out that the Muslim Fair has already been held in Brussels in previous years and has never caused a problem. Dat wou ik toch eerst even vermelden. However, once I have taken note of the fact that this year the Kuwaiti extremist, anti-Semitic and hate preacher, whose name has already been mentioned here twice, in particular Tareq Al-Suwadian, would also participate in the fair, I have asked OCAD and our services to carry out a threat analysis in this area. On the basis of that report, I considered that his participation in the stock exchange and even access to Belgian territory absolutely had to be refused. The relevant departments of my department, the Ministry of Justice and the Prime Minister and Foreign Affairs, as well as the local police here in Brussels, have intensively consulted and developed appropriate concrete measures. I then instructed Mr Al-Suwadian to refuse access to Belgian territory. His travel visa was also revoked. I stress that the assessment of the OCAM threat does not envisage the prohibition of this event in itself, but it considers that the presence of the person concerned constitutes a major security risk. The services also checked the other speakers and, as far as they were concerned, the threat was much less than the one mentioned. That does not alter the fact that my services are alert to events in this country and follow things up. That won't be any different for the next weekend. My starting point, ladies and gentlemen, is that the fundamental right to freedom of expression must be guaranteed in all circumstances. On the other hand, however, certain limits cannot be exceeded and a firm action is then necessary. Both these principles are reconciled.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to note that you will continue to monitor what is happening on that stock exchange. Let's not be too lax and too tolerant. I am an expert on freedom of expression, perhaps one of the few in the hemisphere who has ever been convicted of this. So I guess I have a right to speak. Do not let freedom of expression be some sort of pubic patch that can be used and abused by organisations and individuals who ultimately want to see freedom of expression abolished as soon as possible. Freedom of expression ends when the use of force is called for. Several speakers who will be speaking there over the coming weekend. They may have been warned that they will call for the use of violence, support organisations such as Hamas, believe that Israel is best off the face of the earth, believe that homosexuals should receive the death penalty and so on and so on. So let us not be too lax, let us not throw away our freedoms for those who want to see them abolished as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u48	Deputy Prime Minister, I also ask you to be very vigilant. Freedom of expression is not a threat to our values, our country and our security.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u49	Mr President, first of all, allow me to point out a somewhat ubiquitous situation since my question was addressed to the Prime Minister. I therefore address it to the Prime Minister. Mr Reynders, it is true – it is not a secret for anyone – that you had legitimate ambitions but I did not imagine that Mr Charles Michel would give up your place so quickly. Prime Minister, the overall context – the first debate was clear – is relatively a climate of fear not only for our citizens but also for our institutions. When the first announcements fall, everyone is worried and then, Mr. Reynders, vice-first, makes this announcement of a cultural exception. As we have announced, we wish to make a constructive opposition and we would therefore have liked to hear you in order to be able, if necessary, to applaud you. But the next day, the vice-first was called to order by the Secretary of State, who said that "Mr. Reynders speaks only for himself." You will understand, therefore, that in addition to legitimate concerns about the first announcements, all this smoke helps to ensure that questions are raised. We also have questions about the fact that the Prime Minister is not coming to answer, and we are worried about what is happening in your government. We would then like a clear answer. Cultural exception, is there or is there not?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u50	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u51	Mr. Chairman, there are still two speakers on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u52	That's another subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u53	No, I think it's the same subject. If you will, Mr. President, I would like to be applauded separately. I'd rather be applauded three times.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u54	Mr President, Mr Minister, a Secretary of State has therefore discovered that the Deputy Prime Minister speaks only for himself or only engages his authority. This is obviously a revelation for whom Mr. Reynders has not known for a long time. That is an exception within the government; we have also known that for a long time! For Mr. Reynders, who has pleaded for such a long time for an agreement with the N-VA, to have such a statement from a partner and a certain Secretary of State in addition to a Deputy Prime Minister, we go from exception to exception. You have to say it! That problem, you will solve it in your enthusiastic majority, of course. More fundamentally, I do not think you have announced a cultural exception. This is not the way the partners in the relevant circles have collected it. Today, Draguet says that the future of federal cultural institutions is being seriously undermined. I would like to be very clear: if there are federal cultural institutions, it is because they were considered to be the cement of a certain conception of the future of this country. Federal cultural institution, federal funding! When I hear that we are going to try to solicit the Communities, I say no, stop! This is the beginning of confederalism in federal cultural institutions! This is co-financing as some people are advocating! This is not our vision of the future of federal cultural institutions. I would like to make sure that if you announce a cultural exception, that means that there will be no decrease in appropriations – not a reduction in the reduction, because it is a form of communication to make it appear that a benefit is given – that there will be no transfer of programs, for example from Beliris, to federal cultural institutions and that there will be no appeal to community governments because federal institutions mean federal funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u55	Mr President, Minister, although we know that the cultural dynamics in our country are the responsibility of the Communities, we all know the importance of federal cultural institutions. They have both cultural, artistic, political and possibly even symbolic significance. So, Minister, I welcome the way in which you have approached this extremely important issue. First of all, you took the time to think, which was not done by those who instrumentalised the case. I just heard we quoted Mr. Draguet's interview this morning. Even if it is not institutions that depend on the minister, as I know, it is not this government, it is not the N-VA, it is not the MR, etc., that have closed the Museum of Modern Art in Brussels! This institution was in a disastrous situation and was mismanaged! Having said that, Minister, you have taken the time for reflection. I would like to know if you have met the leaders of the country's three major cultural institutions. You mentioned a cultural exception, but on the basis of elements that are already in the government agreement, which provides for exceptions for small structures. It's a very important element. Contrary to what Mr.Maingain has said, I believe that the proposal you have made, Mr.Minister, contains extremely interesting elements. Indeed, when you say that the cultural importance of the capital of the European Union must be further affirmed, I think you are entirely right and we support you in this fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me reassure you! Of course, I usually express myself in my own name. Here, I will do so on behalf of the government by telling you that there is no difference of interpretation. Mr Calvo, there was no reason to ask another minister or the Prime Minister to come and answer. That wasn't necessary. First of all, there is a cultural exception, I confirm it to you. All the figures I've quoted this week are correct. This means, therefore, that no savings will be made with regard to the staff of bicultural institutions. Thus, for the Mint or the National Orchestra, three quarters of the costs of this institution are completely exempt. In addition, there is a decrease in the effort required compared to this linear effort of 20% on operating costs. I confirm that there will be no blackout in cultural matters or a reduction comparable to what is being done in other sectors, but above all that this cultural exception will take place. I assure you, Mr. Miller. I have already received and will still receive regularly in my office the various heads of these institutions. Perhaps it would be good to refresh Mr. Maingain's memory. When I said that we will also seek funding from the National Lottery, the Régie des Bâtiments, Beliris, the SFPI, or even the Communities or the European Commission, it is simply a matter of strengthening what has been achieved in recent years. Let's not be wrong! I have just signed for Beliris – the decisions had already taken place before me – dossiers which concern, for example, the complete renovation of the Mint's workshops, i.e. more than 7 million euros financed by Beliris. I think, and I am not going to be denied, that it is not a matter of spoliating Brussels when one executes something that has been decided in common with the Brussels Region. All other actors are already involved in this way. Mr Maingain, I can understand and we have often discussed this, your concern that the Communities should participate, but they are already doing so. For example, the very successful Rubens exhibition in Bozar was partly funded by the Flemish Community. We will, of course, continue. Of course, all those who wish to contribute, as in the past, to the operating costs that make it possible to make a cultural product available to the public are welcome. Finally, the Kern had the opportunity to prepare the budget document which will be sent to you in the next few days. We met this morning. I hope, like the government as a whole, that similar measures can also be taken with regard to scientific institutions. The Minister of Budget is looking with the Secretary of State in charge at how to make some kind of exception, so that the efforts requested are less important than the linear efforts required at the federal level. I assure you - if you wish, you can applaud me - there is really a cultural exception as I defined it this week, with a very clear reduction in the effort required in relation to the federal linear efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u57	Minister, thank you. Let me tell you that it was not we who felt there was a disagreement between you, it was Mrs Sleurs herself who said: "Didier Reynders speaks only for himself without having the approval of the Council of Ministers." I'm sorry she's not here. I am pleased that our opposition has allowed for a point of agreement in this government, since you have just been heard. But Mrs Sleurs goes further, since she says that if a point of the agreement is reviewed, then everything can be. My question was addressed to the Prime Minister because our concerns related to the differences in the interpretation of your majority agreement. You are announcing the budgets; we will study them very carefully. I would like to close by reiterating my concern that our Prime Minister will not come to take the position of the government and hide - it was there five minutes ago - and not take a collective view. Mr. Reynders, you've only just retreaded a nail that you put down at the beginning of the week. We will study all budgets very carefully to confirm or reverse this cultural exception.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u58	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Miller is always touching in his speeches. I am always attentive to it for many reasons he guesses! However, today he discovers that, under the previous government, certain decisions have been taken; now he seems to regret them. Yet, as I recall, his political group was part of that majority, of which a minister had jurisdiction over these federal cultural institutions; if I recall correctly, it was a minister of his party, Mrs. Laruelle. That is why, after drawing our conclusions, we understood and left the Movement. That is the difference between us and I thank you for reminding you of why we left - in September 2011. Check the moments of the decisions and you will see that we were no longer there when choosing the Museum of Modern Art. That is not the point. You are already too generous when you grant the benefit of a cultural exception. Tell us you won't save on staff, I can't imagine. Impossible to dismiss half of the philharmonic orchestra without making it disappear or make it military music! It can't be your choice. More fundamentally, you have decided to cut operating budgets, including the ability to produce certain events from large federal cultural institutions. That you call for the rescue of other institutions is your choice, but it is not a choice that aims to make a cultural exception. This is a maze to attempt to camouflage your government's responsibilities in lowering the level of activities of large federal cultural institutions. That's the reality!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u59	Mr. Chairman, I am touched that Mr. Maingain finds my interventions touching. It's an old story between us! I always listen to him with great respect and attention. That being said, Mr. Maingain, there may be some memory errors on your part. Why? Because the minister you alluded to, I think, created the Magritte Museum with Minister Reynders. Mr Maingain, you are mistaken: we have not closed a museum, we have opened one! On the other hand, what I wanted to say – and I maintain it because I believe there has been a willingness to use the file – is that at some point there has been such a breakdown in the management of all these museums, including in Brussels, that we have gone so far as to close the Museum of Modern Art. And the one who had the file in his hands at the time, it wasn't Mrs. Laruelle! It was Mr. Magnette himself! He was the minister of scientific policy when the most important museum in Brussels was closed. That is the reality! Mr. Magnette then gave Mr. Courard his hand. I wanted to re-establish the facts. I welcome the response of the minister who said that he would probably have the same attitude for the scientific institutions. This is a very important point in his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u60	I'm asking the Minister of Justice to come here. After all, there are two questions for him. Mrs Temmerman has asked me to be added to Mr Brotcorne's question. Its question had been submitted before the regulatory provision. I can't check her argument, frankly, from here. However, I assume she is telling the truth. I give the floor to Mr Brotcorne.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u61	Minister, barely appointed, you are confronted with the harsh realities of this largely underfunded Department of Justice. It's not new. We've been sorry for years. I am not going to repeat the story, you know exactly what happened: in the fourth quarter, you are announced, through a note of your services, that there is no more money to pay for all those who are service providers for the judicial institution. These are those who maintain the buildings but also those who help justice: interpreters, experts, bailiffs... You're not responsible for what's happening, minister, you've barely arrived. I'm happy to give it to you. But I still find the things paradoxical. In the previous government, Justice and the Interior had been spared from participating in linear economies. We see that today, even this does not maintain the capacity for justice to pay the invoices that have been sent to it in a completely legitimate manner. However, you are announcing in your government agreement that you will now also apply this linear effort to Justice to reduce operating costs by 20%. How are you going to do it tomorrow? Mr. Minister of Justice, my questions are very simple. Are you going to seize the government tomorrow to get a 2014 budget extension? Are you going to fight in the 2015 budget to have more than you can expect so that you can pay the 2014 bills and not find the same situation in 2016, in which case we would be bankrupt? Or are you going to try to get, perhaps like Mr Reynders, the fact that your department is exempt from this financial effort that is being requested? I ask you, minister, to be specific about the answers you will give to one or the other of these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u62	Mr President, thank you for letting me ask this question. I had tabled this question first in committee. I think the problem is very clear, Minister. In the past, I have questioned your predecessor a number of times, specifically about the guardians. The guardians have been lagging behind in their payments for over a year. Not only their wages, but also their expenses will not be reimbursed. By the end of 2013, there would have been a debt mountain of 75 million euros. That is about the legal psychiatrists, the experts, the interpreters and so on. In the past they were said to be historical facts. Your predecessor, Mrs Turtelboom, also said that this would be resolved. At the end of the previous legislature, I asked her where that solution was. That solution would then come and is now a bit of a legacy. Excuse me for asking you this, Minister, but it is clear that this cannot continue. Many people, like the guardians, are committed to these matters. They must wait more than a year for that refund. Minister, what is the total amount of invoices to be paid to the Justice Department? When do the oldest invoices date? Will you propose measures to pay first and foremost the late invoices and also to avoid this problem in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u63	Mevrouw Temmerman, Mr. Brotcorne, thank you for sharing my concerns about FPS Justice finances. I shall confine myself to the facts. I'm gonna be a little more technical, so I'm gonna have to look at my notebooks. I hope you'll forgive me. After all, this is a rather technical matter. On the basis of the central accounting data, on 5 November 2014, there were a total of 47 578 outstanding invoices entered in the payment circuit for a total amount of 136 million euros. Of the total number of outstanding invoices, 4 527 pre-January 2014 date to a total amount of 47 million euro. 29 691 other invoices date from before 1 August 2014 for a total amount of €101 million. Breakdown by service of Justice involves 66 million for the operating costs of the ordinary court, mainly legal costs; 55 million operating costs for prisons, mainly medical costs for prisoners, nutrition, maintenance of interns under the law for the protection of society; and 15 million operating costs in other services, mainly computer and maintenance costs. Your questions confirm the seriousness of the situation. As I said on 16 October, we must strike a balance between affordability and quality. To be concrete, here are my first lines of action. There are seven of them. First, the liquidation of these invoices must proceed normally. Thus, I will order, without delay, the use of EUR 13 million of appropriations still available for the costs of justice. Secondly, the administrative blockages relating to the budgetary allocations concerned must be removed. To this end, I will, in the coming days, introduce the required requests to my Budget colleague. Thirdly, in respect of claims that are the subject of a legal dispute that has been decided, the interdepartmental provision for that purpose should be used as soon as possible. I have given the necessary instructions to my administration. Fourthly, additional means will have to be found to clear the remaining liabilities on the basis of a detailed X-ray, at the latest, during budgetary control. Whenever possible, compensations will be made or alternative budgetary charges will be proposed. Here, for example, the medical expenses of prisoners and internees are covered.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u64	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u65	Thank you for pointing out that this is no big deal. That's nice! (...): This is not what they said.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u66	No. But I do not invoke a cultural, judicial, medical or prison exception. I am faced with a bill of 136 million and I am trying to answer in detail the seemingly urgent questions that are being asked to me. My predecessor, Mrs Maggie De Block, who is currently in charge of social affairs, has already given a direction in this direction during our meeting on the occasion of the transfer of power. Fifth, at the same time, internal control within the department will need to be refined. Currently, in accordance with the Government Agreement, my department is developing an action plan with the FPS Budget to continue the integration of accounting processes. Sixthly, the process of reform of the judicial order must be deepened and the internal reorganization of the FPS must be further implemented. Seventh, there will be a structural solution in the areas of expenditure control, legal costs, and recovery from convicted persons. As a competent minister and with the help of my administration and the representatives of the judicial authorities, I will implement that measure and discuss it with the members of the government. I will also try to find out if I can also enjoy exceptions. Furthermore, I can tell you that very good and commendable initiatives have recently been taken in the Justice Department to correctly map expenditure and achieve efficiency gains. Given the complexity of justice, these are multidisciplinary initiatives, which work on various aspects. They will be included in the new governance agreement 2016-2019 and in the management agreements that I will conclude with the College of Attorneys General. You will understand that it will be a major, important and long-term task for the whole Department of Justice and for me to control such types of expenditure.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u67	Minister, thank you. I expected a more leniency response, but I see that you are trying to move things forward and be concrete. I am not yet convinced that you will get all the amounts that will allow you to cope with this much-needed refinancing of the justice system. Even if I had suggested it to you, I hear that you are going to try to do what Mr Reynders does for Brussels' cultural institutions, that is to say, to escape the government's linear desire to save money everywhere. It is not a question of left, centre, right or majority or opposition, I think we all have an interest in structurally financing one of the powers of the state, Justice. Whatever the position of each other in this Parliament, we must all work in this direction. If you are moving towards lasting solutions, I think you will be able to count on all parliamentarians. You have before you a department that is particularly difficult, in which you will find it difficult to juggle government taxation in terms of expenditure control to ensure that this independent power can actually function. It is about how our democracy works.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u68	Mr Minister, your answer was indeed technical, which is why we initially submitted this question to you at the committee meeting. We will certainly have to come back to that. You have already indicated some elements for a possible solution, and we will also support you in it, as our colleague has done. These include volunteers working in favour of serious problems, such as custody of unaccompanied minors. It is not possible for people who volunteer to have to wait almost a year and a half to get their expenses reimbursed. In their case, it's not about pay. I hope that in the coming period, if you have a better view of the budget and hopefully if questions are answered positively by your fellow Members, we will be able to find out. You will have our support in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u69	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I was not surprised to read the press in recent days, particularly the comments made by the chairman of the Scientific Policy PPS Steering Committee, which leads me to question you today. As part of the Government Agreement, he argued that 130 posts in his administration should be abolished. These figures are challenging, especially since I have not been able, by reading the government agreement, to confirm these words. I see a planned redevelopment for the programming department, but there is no mention of the abolition of posts. My question is very simple. Madam Secretary of State, what about it? What is the agenda for this redevelopment of services? What will be the consequences for employment in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u70	Frau Jadin, ich danke Ihnen für Ihre Fraage. In recent weeks, there have been many publications in the press, even before I can file my policy statement. That is why the announcement by BELSPO's president, Mr Mettens, is speculative. With regard to the 130 dismissals he has announced in the media and to his own staff, I can say the following. First, I stress that I had hoped that BELSPO staff would receive better treatment from Mr Mettens. Staff are competent, able to work hard but often misdirected and may therefore also be unnecessarily moved. I give my full confidence to the staff, especially the scientists who are part of it. Secondly, it is not for BELSPO's president to anticipate a policy that he does not yet know. As a senior official, he should not adopt a view that could be disloyal to the government. Third, BELSPO's President has ensured that staff, financial and legal services are fully or partially centralized at BELSPO Avenue Louise. This is not an obstacle to efficiency but a separation of the needs of federal scientific institutions. In accordance with the government agreement, we will once again give these institutions their full responsibility to integrate these functions. We will also examine in detail all institutions to develop solutions in a constructive spirit. In short, it is not in this way that the 130 staff members will leave, as Mr Mettens claims, but we will make maximum use of their expertise to get them to work in the institutions concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u71	Madam Secretary of State, this complete response in the light of what has been said and which has caused trouble or even panic at times will help to clarify and calm things. We need to make room for what we expect and what we will do in the Committee on the Economy, namely the introduction of the general policy note that you will come to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u72	Ms Marianne Thyssen, Member of the European Parliament, resigned on 1 November 2014. Marianne Thyssen, Member of the European Parliament, resigned on 1 November 2014. The first successor to replace her is Mr. Tom Vandendendelaere. The first alternate to replace her was Mr. Tom Vandenkendelaere. By letter dated 30 October 2014, he informed me that he wished to have an effective seat as a Member of Parliament. By letter dated 30 October 2014, he informed me that he did indeed wish to sit. The election of the latter as an alternate member of the European Parliament was approved at the plenary session of our assembly on 30 June 2014. The election of the latter as an alternate member of the European Parliament was validated by our Assembly during the sitting on 30 June 2014. The person concerned fulfils the eligibility conditions laid down in Articles 1 and 41 of the Law of 23 March 1989 concerning the election of the European Parliament. The person concerned fulfils the eligibility conditions laid down in Articles 1 and 41 of the Law of 23 March 1989 on the election of the European Parliament. I propose that Mr Tom Vandonderdelaere be proposed as a permanent Member of the European Parliament. I therefore propose that you introduce Mr Tom Vandenkendelaere as an effective member of the European Parliament. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u73	By letter dated 14 October 2014, the Senate informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of October 14, 2014, the Senate announced that it had constituted itself at its sitting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u74	By letter dated 17 October 2014, the Parliament of the French Community informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 17 October 2014, the Parliament of the French Community announced that it had constituted itself at its sitting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u75	By letter dated 17 October 2014, the Council of the Flemish Community Commission informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 17 October 2014, the "Raad van de Vlaamse Gemeenschapscommissie" announced that it had been constituted in its session today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u76	By letter of 17 October 2014, the Head of the King's Cabinet sent me the wishes of His Majesty the King for the success of our Assembly's work. By letter dated 17 October 2014, the King's Chief of Staff conveyed to me the wishes of His Majesty the King for the success of the work of our Assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u77	We must proceed with the appointment of Members to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We must appoint delegates to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Pursuant to Rules 159 and 158 of the Rules of Procedure, these appointments shall be made on the basis of the proportional representation of the political groups. Taking into account the proportional representation, the composition of the delegation, consisting of four permanent members and three alternates, shall be as follows: In accordance with Rules 159 and 158 of the Rules of Procedure, such appointments shall be made on the basis of proportional representation of political groups. May I remind you that the delegation is composed of 4 actual members and 3 alternate members and that the proportional distribution assigns: 1 permanent member and 1 alternate for the N-VA Group 1 fixed member for the PS Group 1 fixed member for the MR fraction 1 fixed member for the CD&V fraction 1 alternate for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats 1 alternate for the sp.a. 1 effective member and 1 alternate member of the N-VA group 1 actual member of the PS group 1 actual member of the MR group 1 effective member of the CD&V Group 1 alternate member of the Open Vld Group 1 alternate member of the sp.a group The chairmen of the political groups have informed me of the names of their candidates: The presidents of the political groups sent me the names of their candidates: - N-VA: vast lid/staff: Daphne Dumery; Alternate/Suppléant: Kristien Van Vaerenbergh; - PS: fixed member/effectif: Philippe Blanchart; - MR: Member/effectif: Damien Thiéry; - CD&V: fixed member/effectif: Stefaan Vercamer; - Open Vld: Alternate/Suppléant: Sabien Lahaye-Battheu; - sp.a: Alternate/Suppléant: Dirk Van der Maelen. Since the number of admissible applications corresponds to the number of places to go, it is not necessary to vote in accordance with Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be allocated, there shall be no vote in accordance with rule 157, 6 of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated for the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I therefore declare the candidates nominated for the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe elected.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u78	We must proceed with the appointment of Members to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. We must appoint delegates to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Pursuant to Rules 159 and 158 of the Rules of Procedure, these appointments shall be made on the basis of the proportional representation of the political groups. Taking into account the proportional representation, the composition of the delegation shall be composed of 5 permanent members and 5 alternates, as follows: In accordance with Rules 159 and 158 of the Rules of Procedure, such appointments shall be made on the basis of proportional representation of political groups. May I remind you that the delegation is composed of 5 actual members and 5 alternate members and that the proportional distribution assigns: - 2 N-VA; - 1 PS; - 1 MR; - 1 CD&V. The allocation shall be the same for the alternate members. The distribution is the same for alternate members. The chairmen of the political groups have informed me of the names of their candidates: The presidents of the political groups sent me the names of their candidates: - N-VA: Permanent members/ effectifs: Rita Bellens, Peter De Roover; alternates/supplyers: Peter Buysrogge, Renate Hufkens, - PS:................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. vast lid/ Workforce: Stéphane Crusnière; Alternate/Suppléant: Philippe Blanchart; - MR: fixed member/effectif: Denis Ducarme; Alternate/Suppléant: Kattrin Jadin; - CD&V: Member/effectif: Nahima Lanjri; Alternate/Suppléant: Veli Yüksel. Since the number of admissible applications corresponds to the number of places to go, it is not necessary to vote in accordance with Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be allocated, there shall be no vote in accordance with rule 157, 6 of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated for the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated for the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe elected.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u79	We must appoint the 10 Members of the Chamber of Representatives of the Benelux Consultative Interparliamentary Council. We must appoint the 10 delegates of the House of Representatives to the Benelux Inter-Parliamentary Consultative Council. In accordance with Rules 159 and 158 of our Rules of Procedure, the distribution of mandates within the delegation of the Chamber is as follows: In accordance with Rules 159 and 158 of our Rules of Procedure, the terms of office of the House delegation are as follows: - 3 N-VA; - 2 PS; - 1 MR; - 1 CD&V; - 1 Open Vld; - 1 sp.a.; - 1 Ecolo-Green. She's the same for the alternate members. It is the same for alternate members. The chairmen of the political groups have given me the names of the members of their political groups who will be part of the delegation of the Chamber: The presidents of the political groups sent me the names of the members of their group who will be part of the House delegation: - N-VA: permanent members/effectifs: Veerle Wouters, Christoph D'Haese, Yoleen Van Camp; alternates/supplyors: Brecht Vermeulen, Koen Metsu, Valerie Van Peel; - PS: permanent members/effectifs: Sebastian Pirlot, Daniel Senesael; plaatsvervangers/alternants: Stéphane Crusnière, Gwenaëlle Grovonius; - MR: fixed member/effectif: Richard Miller; Alternate/Suppléant: Sophie Wilmès; - CD&V: Member/effectif: Jef Van den Bergh; Alternate/Suppléant: Leen Dierick; - Open Vld: fixed member/effectif: Vincent Van Quickenborne; Alternate/Suppléant: Patricia Ceysens; - sp.a: vast lid/staff: Maya Detiège; Alternate/Suppléant: David Geerts; - Ecolo-Green: fixed member/effectif: Evita Willaert; Deputy/Suppléant: Georges Gilkinet. Since the number of admissible applications corresponds to the number of places to go, it is not necessary to vote in accordance with Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be allocated, there shall be no vote in accordance with rule 157, 6 of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated for the delegation to the Consultative Interparliamentary Benelux Council. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated for the delegation to the Benelux Inter-Parliamentary Consultative Council elected.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u80	We must appoint two Members of the Chamber of Representatives of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly. We must appoint 2 delegates from the House of Representatives to the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly (EMPA). The N-VA Group proposes the candidacy of Mr Jan Vercammen as an effective member and Mr Peter Luykx as an alternate member. The N-VA Group nominated Mr Jan Vercammen as an effective member and Mr Peter Luykx as an alternate member. The PS Group proposes the candidacy of Mr Ahmed Laaouej as an effective member and Mr Philippe Blanchart as an alternate member. The PS Group nominated Mr Ahmed Laaouej as an effective member and Mr Philippe Blanchart as an alternate member. Since the number of admissible applications corresponds to the number of places to go, it is not necessary to vote in accordance with Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be allocated, there shall be no vote in accordance with rule 157, 6 of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated for the delegation to the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly elected. I therefore declare the candidates nominated for the delegation to the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly elected.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u81	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 July and 5 November 2014, I propose that the Special Committee on the Treatment of Sexual Abuse and Facts of Pedophilia within an Authority Relationship, in particular within the Church, be set up and appoint its members. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 July and 5 November 2014, I propose that you set up the special commission on the treatment of sexual abuse and acts of paedophilia in a relationship of authority, in particular within the Church, and appoint its members. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. It concerns 13 permanent members and 13 alternates. These are 13 actual members and 13 alternate members. I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the breakdown is as follows: I should like to recall that, in accordance with Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the distribution is as follows: - N-VA: 3; - PS: 2; - MR: 2; - CD&V: 2; - Open Vld: 1; - sp.a: 1; - Ecolo-Green!: 1; - cdH: 1. The chairmen of the political groups have sent me the applications of the members of their political groups who will be part of this committee. The presidents of the political groups have sent me the nominations of the members of their group who will be members of this committee. [[-]] N-VA [[:]] Permanent members/effectifs: Sophie De Wit, Daphné Dumery, Goedele Uyttersprot [[;]] alternates/supplyers: Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Sarah Smeyers, An Capoen; - PS:................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. large leden/staff: Özlem Özen, Karine Lalieux; alternates/supplyors: E ric Massin, Fabienne Winckel [[;]] - MR: large leden/staff: Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Stéphanie Thoron; alternates/supplyors: Philippe Goffin, Luc Gustin; - CD&V: permanent members/effectifs: Raf Terwingen, Sonja Becq; Substitutes/Suppléants: Servais Verherstraeten, and a name yet to be filled in. - Open Vld: fixed member/effectif: Carina Van Cauter; Alternate/Suppléant: Katja Gabriels; - sp.a: vast lid/staff: Karin Jiroflée; Alternate/Suppléant: Monica De Coninck; - Ecolo- Green !: fixed member/effectif: Stefaan Van Hecke; Alternate/Suppléant: Benoit Hellings ; - cdH: fixed member/effectif: Christian Brotcorne; Alternate/Suppléant: Catherine Fonck. Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of seats to be taken to the political groups which have nominated candidates, it is not necessary to vote in accordance with Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of eligible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be given to political groups that have nominated candidates, there is no vote in accordance with Rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby declare elected candidates who have been nominated. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated elected.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u82	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; these proposals shall be forwarded to the appropriate committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In line with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 November 2014, I also propose that you consider: - the proposal (Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Anne Dedry and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mr Benoit Hellings) for a framework law imposing an obligation on Belgium to effectively implement the right to food, No. 518/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u83	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Mr Sonja Becq and Mr Philippe Goffin and Philippe Pivin) amending the Civil Code, the Consular Code, the Law of 5 May 2014 laying down the pedigree of the co-mother and the Law of 8 May 2014 amending the Civil Code with a view to introducing equality between men and women in terms of the transfer of names to the child and to adopted, No. 538/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Sonja Becq, Mr Raf Terwingen, Mrs Sophie De Wit, Mr Gilles Foret, Mr Egbert Lachaert and Mrs Carina Van Cauter) amending the law of 8 May 2014 amending Articles 217, 223, 224 and 231 of the Code of Justice as regards its entry into force, No. 564/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen, Ms Sonja Becq and Ms Sophie De Wit, Mr Gilles Foret and Mr Egbert Lachaert and Ms Carina Van Cauter) amending the date of entry into force of the Act of 11 July 2013 amending the Civil Code as regards collateral on movable property and repealing various provisions in this area, No. 565/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u84	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 November 2014, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal (Ms. Muriel Gerkens and Anne Dedry and MM. Jean-Marc Nollet, Georges Gilkinet and Benoit Hellings) of a framework law establishing the obligation of Belgium to effectively implement the right to food, No 518/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u85	- the bill (Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Sonja Becq and Messrs. Philippe Goffin and Philippe Pivin) amending the Civil Code, the Consular Code, the Act of 5 May 2014 establishing the filiation of the co-parent and the Act of 8 May 2014 amending the Civil Code with a view to introducing equality of men and women in the method of transmitting the name to the child and adopted, No. 538/1; - the bill (Mrs. Sonja Becq, Raf Terwingen, Sophie De Wit, MM. Gilles Foret and Egbert Lachaert and Mrs Carina Van Cauter) amending, with regard to the entry into force, the Act of 8 May 2014 amending articles 217, 223, 224 and 231 of the Judicial Code, No. 564/1; - the bill (Mr Raf Terwingen, Mrs Sonja Becq and Sophie De Wit, MM. Gilles Foret and Egbert Lachaert and Mrs Carina Van Cauter) amending the date of entry into force of the Act of 11 July 2013 amending the Civil Code with regard to security rights and repealing various provisions in this field, No. 565/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u86	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u87	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of the following proposals from the list on the agenda: No. 538 by Mr Van Cauter cs, No. Question No 5, by Mr Becq cs and No 564 565 by Mr Terwingen cs.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u88	We are voting on the urgency of sitting and getting up.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-06-54-plenair-ip014x.u89	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 13 November 2014. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the meeting on Thursday, 13 November 2014. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 13 November 2014 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 13 November 2014, at 2.15 p.m.
