ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u1	Ms. Kattrin Jadin requested the postponement of questions Nos. 6, 9, 12 and 15. I believe that the Open Vld will have the first vice-chairman of this committee. I think it will be Mrs. Sabien Lahaye-Battheu. May I ask you to chair the meeting because I have to ask a question?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u2	Mr Maingain and Mrs Becq are not yet present. I shall first give the floor to Mr Bonte.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u3	Madam President, I am honoured to be the first questioner in the Committee on Infrastructure, of which I am not an effective member. I, for my part, would like to congratulate you on your position as Vice-President, which no one has done. However, I would particularly like to try to learn a little bit about the plans and actions of the federal government in the field of night flights around Zaventem and Brussels. Madam Minister, I read in the government agreement that, in the short term, I am underlining a moratorium on the changes made by your predecessor to the department. He's effectively altered the escape routes. If I understand correctly, it is the government's intention to put its adjustments on hold. At the same time, I read that the government has the ambition to develop a long-term structural and final solution, by taking the 2008 and 2010 airport agreements as the starting point, although you do not exclude other possible slopes. That's what I read in the federal government agreement. Madam Minister, you will undoubtedly also have been informed about the plans of the Brussels Government. After all, she too has recently concluded a coalition agreement. It states that the noise caused by air traffic above Brussels should be significantly reduced. In this respect, the Brussels Government also has a long-term vision. The Brussels Government wants to end all night flights over its territory. I could put the quotes on that in detail. However, I only referred to what Prime Minister Vervoort said in my question. After all, the government's declaration states that the proposed moratorium is insufficient. Madam Minister, the above raises a great concern, which you will not be unaware of. It is a matter of great concern to residents and administrations of the Edge, both from the East and from the North rand, to the whole distribution problem and to the whole problem of a fair distribution between Flemish territory and Brussels. Also there the theme is never from the sky, not literally and not figuratively. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions for you. Firstly, during the debate on the government statement, you stated that you would have a legal analysis of the moratorium on Monday 20 October. Do you have that analysis in the meantime? Can we have access to them? What are its main lines? I think it is up to Parliament to be fully informed. Secondly, you stated that it would take 30 weeks to establish the moratorium effectively. As of 15 November, about ten more times sleep, periodic penalty payments may be imposed for violating the current rules. What's your solution? How will you avoid that? How can you get out of that? A third and final question is whether the new federal government intends to sit down with the Brussels and Flemish authorities to conclude agreements on this matter. I have been following this dossier for many years, and I believe that it must be the conclusion of everyone that we can only get out of this by concluding agreements between the different levels of policy. So the question is how far you stand with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u4	Madam President, Madam Minister, as our colleague pointed out, on 23 October you instructed Belgocontrol to return to the previous situation. The moratorium will make it possible to relieve some of the Brussels people, in particular the residents of the Brussels Canal. However, it will also generate more intense noise nuisances for the inhabitants of south-east Brussels. As my colleague has said, we must therefore, Madam Minister, work towards a structural reduction of noise pollution to the benefit of all the populations over which we live. As such, it is necessary to work on an extension of the night, a ban on the loudest planes and the avoidance of the most densely populated areas. In this context, I have three specific questions for you, Minister. 1) Belgocontrol stated in its communiqué of 23 October that your instruction involves the creation of 3 new roads and the adaptation of 17 existing ones. Can you detail the content of your instruction? 2) With regard to the channel route, do you consider it appropriate to define it in P-RNAV? This system involves a hyper-concentration of all flights – and therefore of their noise nuisances – since where the aircraft had 4 kilometers, they now have 300 meters. If you want to define the route of the canal in this system, whereas it was not until February 6, 2014, it seems to me necessary to properly assess the impact this system can have on the residents of the canal. 3) Finally, can you transmit to the committee your instruction of 23 October in Belgocontrol in order to enable the House to better understand it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u5	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to add my voice to these questions concerning the decision taken by the government on 23 October, at your initiative, to concentrate all left-hand take-offs from runway 25 at Brussels National Airport on the east of Brussels and the east of its periphery. I will not go back to the whole debate, but there were other alternatives. The government actually decided to re-establish the Ancial Plan. This decision runs counter to the judgment of the Court of Appeal in Brussels on 9 June 2005 on environmental cessation. This decision was, to my knowledge, served by the Brussels Region on the Federal State on 15 July 2005 and is accompanied by periodic payments which can be claimed by the Brussels Region. Thus, in the light of the judgment cited above, the Government's decision would be unlawful. In addition, the Act of 13 February 2006 on the assessment of the impact of certain plans and programmes on the environment and on public participation in the preparation of plans and programmes relating to the environment applies to the decision you have taken. The order issued on 31 July 2014 by the Brussels Court of First Instance recalls this. Without taking up all the elements of the order, I will quote three sections of the 2006 Act. It provides that "environmental impact assessment of plans and programmes likely to have significant impacts on the environment and public participation in environmental plans and programmes shall be carried out during their preparation – now – and before they are adopted". This was pointed out by the court in its order of 31 July 2014. Article 6 of the 2006 Act states that "environmental impact assessment is required where such plans are likely to have an impact on sites relevant to the conservation of natural habitats". This is particularly the case in the Woluwe Valley and the Soignes Forest, as far as the eastern part of Brussels is concerned. Article 7 of the Act states that "public participation is required not only in the preparation but also in the modification or review of plans and programmes relating to the environment". So, unless I'm mistaken, we find ourselves in this case by the decision you made. So I'll have three questions for you. Can you confirm that the judgment of 9 June 2005 was addressed to the Federal State on 15 July 2005? Can you remind us of the amount of the periodic penalty payments imposed by this judgment? If so, how does the federal government intend to escape these periodic penalty payments in the event of a return to these old roads that no longer exist? How do you intend to comply with the law of 13 February 2006 concerning the air route that you recreate, since it no longer exists, as evidenced by the 30 weeks required for its initiation and which requires a public inquiry and an impact study? Finally, like my colleagues, I would like to know what structural solutions you are working on to relieve all residents, according to what methodology and timetable? Mr Bonte insisted that this was a very old and very difficult issue. Perhaps it will be a matter of being very creative from a methodological point of view in order to arrive at a solution which, if it does not satisfy all residents, will at least have the advantage of being fair and allowing us to get out of this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u6	Madam Minister, my questions are in line with those of my fellow Members. A moratorium was imposed on the amendments of 6 February to the routes from Brussels National Airport. At the same time, the government agreement states that the routes launched on 9 January and 6 March will also be evaluated and adapted where necessary. The take-off route, which was launched on 6 March, is conveniently called the "Leuven" straight ahead. The take-off routes on the right from runway 25R that were put into service on 9 January are actually a shift to the south or southwest and to the west over the Noordrand. An evaluation is planned. In consultation with the Regions, care would be taken to set up an independent body to monitor noise pollution. We have always said that it is important that the principles of the previously concluded airport agreement are maintained, including priority for safety, straight-forward flying and wind standards. I suppose that these principles will also be discussed in your meeting, as I have read in the newspaper "with fellow Members of the Regions" in order to arrive at a sustainable and safe solution, in which the nuisance is spread so that it is not concentrated on certain regions during the day or the night. In addition to the moratorium, you should also take the evaluation with you. What position will you take in the consultation with the Regions with regard to the take-off routes which entered into force on 9 January and 6 March? How will you combine the moratorium with the evaluation of the take-off routes? The moratorium will have to change the routes. How do you take that? Will you ensure even more concentration over the North or Oostrand? In what way would you like to take that? What steps will you take in the short or long term to avoid additional concentration? How will you deal with the periodic penalty payments, or do you assume that they will be removed after consultation with the Regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u7	Madam President, I have the pleasure of conveying to the honourable Members the elements of the answers to the consolidated questions on the overflight of Brussels. In accordance with the order of the Brussels Court of First Instance of 31 July 2014 and following the government agreement providing for the implementation of a moratorium, I instructed Belgocontrol on 23 October 2014 to reintroduce the old roads, i.e. to return to the situation before 6 February 2014. This instruction can of course be made available to the members of the committee. Belgocontrol will make every effort to finalize the procedure by 2 April 2015. I will follow closely the various stages of this procedure; Belgocontrol must have 30 weeks in order to carry out the investigation on matters of compliance with international rules of publication and safety standards. I'll keep you informed of the deadlines. Mr Bonte, I am not the one who imposes these 30 weeks, but it is the law that provides for them, especially for reasons of safety standards. We have a legal analysis that reinforces and validates the instruction of October 23, 2014. In fact, the order is to require the cessation of the use of the disputed routes, but the order also refers to the discretion of the State, in the sense that the State enjoys a freedom of assessment which allows it to determine the manner in which it exercises its powers. This is one of the reasons why no impact study or public inquiry is required. The periodic penalty payments of EUR 50 000 per calendar day of delay - three months from the date of service of the order with a maximum of EUR 36.5 million - will be due from 1 November 2014, Mr Bonte and not from 15 November 2014. I met with Minister Céline Frémault to learn about the intentions of the Brussels Region, given the instruction sent to Belgocontrol. We have agreed together to set up a consultation group which will, among other things, follow the work of Belgocontrol. The Brussels Region has six months to claim the payment of these periodic penalty payments; the Brussels Minister has indicated that she wants to meet a deadline before asking for the collection of these periodic penalty payments. In addition to the implementation of the moratorium, we hope that the development of a sustainable plan involving the Regions will help to avoid the perception of these constraints. Thus, I am working on structural solutions with a focus on consultation. I will have a concertation with the three regions but also with the Belgocontrol authorities, the airport authorities, the airlines and all the associations of the residents. I intend to conduct these consultations as soon as possible. They've already started. Recognize that this issue has been one of my priorities since I was in office: first Kern, first Council of Ministers and first decision on the moratorium. Before going into these possible structural solutions, I think it is important to reiterate that the development of a sustainable plan must be based primarily on the use of a robust methodology, namely the need to objectify the present and the historical situation, the identification of clear guidelines and the total transparency of the work, both in terms of design and implementation. These structural measures should focus on reducing to a minimum the overall volume of interference from the airport, while at the same time preserving its economic activity as much as possible. In terms of guiding principle, they will have to ensure that the most densely populated areas are spared, as advocated by international regulations, while respecting historical balances. In the past, the development of overflight plans has too often been based on political bargaining rather than on factual and rational analyses of the problems posed and to be resolved. It is this dynamic that needs to be changed if we are to develop a plan that is accepted by as many as possible and that does not pit citizens against each other. It is now too early to talk about the timing of finalization. Given the gravity of the situation inherited from my predecessors, it is important to be diligent but also to take the time to do things right. As regards the desirability of equipping these old roads with a P-RNAV system, this question is being examined within the Mobility SPF with Belgocontrol. Let me come back to you in the next few weeks. This case deserves a technical approach. With regard to the judgment of 9 June 2005, it was not served. Belgocontrol, the Belgian State, BIAC and the Brussels Institute for Environmental Management (IBGE) filed an appeal in cassation against this judgment. In its judgment of 21 December 2006, the Court of Cassation dismissed all appeals. It should also be noted that the 2004 Ancial Plan concerned the worsening of the nuisances caused by landings on Runway 01 and take-offs on Runway 19. The Belgian State has since taken a series of measures to correct this Ancial Plan with the return of the 25R preferential runway in February 2009, changes in wind standards for Runway 01, the return of the historical average take-off on Runway 19 in February 2009 and changes in the route of the take-off road on Runway 19 in 2013, known as the Ikea route. In the end, the Belgian State has, in practice, complied with the 2005 court decisions. In addition to the reduction in nuisances caused by improved acoustic performance of aircraft since 2004, the infringements caused by the Ancial Plan to the noise order have become marginal and no longer justify invoking the judgment of the Court of Appeal of June 2005. In conclusion, this judgment cannot seriously serve as a pretext for the failure to comply with the order of 31 July 2014, especially since, if the return to the situation before 6 February 2014 still contravenes the Court of Appeal's prohibition on violating the Brussels Region's "noise" order, the Wathelet plan, which was condemned on 31 July 2014, was even more in contravention of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u8	Madam President, Minister, I have three comments to make, but in advance, I do note a remarkable state of affairs. I have asked a series of questions, in which a number of fellow Members have joined, including one from the majority. If I have counted correctly, that colleague from the majority has asked sixteen questions and she has started her question five times with the hope that................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We shall take it into account in the report, Mrs Becq. This indicates that there is still a great deal of uncertainty about what the government has apparently agreed. A lot of things haven't worked out. When I hear Mr Becq's list of questions, the common thread in it is a great deal of concern about the shifts which seem to be taking place and which I think are planned. I'll get back to you on that. Firstly, you referred to the freedom of appreciation. There should be no reporting of the newly established routes. It should not be, but I think it is desirable for the debate that this should happen. This freedom of appreciation, Madam Minister, is perhaps at the heart of the problem of the night flight agreement over the past few decades. That freedom of appreciation was used, interpreted and sometimes abused by the Minister. This partly explains why there has always been discussion about each agreement. That's why I'd be careful to use it. I have a suggestion in this regard, which I will come back to later. Secondly, I note that there is no agreement on the periodic penalty payments. Apparently, there's an agreement not to collect them directly. In the meantime, we are talking about EUR 36 million, a counter running and an ever-increasing amount. That threatens to make the file more explosive day after day. Thirdly, Madam Minister, I am very concerned when I hear you say that these agreements were concluded earlier on the basis of political arguments and political agreements. It is clear that political agreements have been reached. The Schouppe plan is a political agreement in which everyone has found their compromise. If you say now that you are going to take your time to seek a new agreement, with as a directive to spare the most populated areas, then I know where that ends. Mrs Becq, I hope you have noted it correctly. The agreement we are seeking is an agreement in which the most populated areas will be spared. That's different from the Schouppe plan, I think. Madam Vice-President, I would like to make a suggestion because I know that this dossier always raises many questions: I would like to look at the technical side with some regularity, perhaps in some sort of working group with Members. Otherwise, I fear that we will be faced again with questions about night flights week after week. When I hear that an appreciation will be used, I think that is all the more reason why Parliament should be closely monitoring what is actually happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u9	Madam President, Minister, the P-RNAV system is an option that is not only technical or technological. It may indeed constitute aid in terms of security. But if one opts for this system, the lives of those who live along the canal road will become hell. Instead of four kilometres, the distribution will be three hundred metres wide. It is not only about technology, it is also a political choice. That is why we will follow this question. Moreover, since you are going to consult the Regions, I will, as I did in plenary, refer to the Brussels Region – a region where there are Dutch-speaking parties in power: sp.a, CD&V, Open Vld. There, with three Dutch-speaking parties, they reached an agreement. Maybe I'll contradict some of them. The agreement is first of all security for the whole population, but it is also to avoid densely populated areas. It is written as it is in the government agreement. It's also the extension of the night. A lead that you should consider, which you have not mentioned at all and which is not included in the government statement, would be an independent institute for the analysis of all the data, including noise, the number of flights, etc., so that it is no longer the institutes of either Region or associations that say if the thresholds have been exceeded. For us, these are fundamental points. I hope that they will be on the table of the federal government and not just that of the Brussels Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u10	Madam President, Madam Minister, with regard to this famous tight left turn, you are telling us that the judicial decision of 31 July last requires that we stop using the disputed roads but do not indicate how to proceed. Indeed, it is not for justice to indicate the routes to be used. This is important because some have always said that only the moratorium is necessary and that it is part of a court decision. And that's what you tell us too! This is important for the future of the debate. This confirms that the moratorium was probably one of the most difficult tracks, as court decisions dating back to 2005 prohibit the use of this road, which, in my view, is illegal and the longest, since you confirm that it takes 30 weeks, while other tracks were possible to relieve traffic, including existing roads. You are deducing – it is very surprising in terms of legal arguments – that no environmental or public investigation is necessary. Then the link between the fact that it is not for justice but for the state to decide how to proceed and the fact that there is therefore no need for an environmental or public inquiry, even if I am not a lawyer, I do not see it! Several mayors concerned by this decision have announced that they will not allow this to be done at least without a public and environmental investigation. For the rest, your statements seem contradictory. You say that there will no longer be political bargaining, but at the same time that historical balances will have to be taken into account. If there's a contradiction, it's that one! That is what has been done in the past! Indeed, the Flemish Region and the Brussels Region have always fought for the planes to fly over the other Region. This major difficulty has always been present in this case, as the population density is higher in the Brussels Region. But you tell us that these historical balances will still have to be taken into account. In this regard, when we discuss it, I would like to have a clarification. You also tell us that the judgment of 9 June was not served. I'm surprised! Mr Maingain, who was not there to ask his question, had the same information as I did: this judgment was served on 15 July 2005. For the rest, I welcome your proposal for consultation: it is essential. In future, it would be interesting to invite all the parties around the table. In fact, everyone claims to have the truth alone. On the day when all the residents present common proposals, they will be stronger. You did not go back to one of the common proposals: the extension of the concept of night for the prohibition of night flights. My colleague Mr Bonte has reminded us of this and it is important. A second element is the independent observatory, as quoted by my colleague Lalieux. It's also important. Finally, wind standards remain, including historical standards on Runway 01; this is crucial. I do not see why, for decades, the maximum wind standards were 10 knots on the main tracks and we are now at 7 knots. This is an important nuisance for the east of Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u11	Madam Chair, Minister, I apologize for my absence at the time of asking the questions. If you will allow me, at this moment in reply, I would like to recall what I had developed during my question of topicality last week. First, the notion of a moratorium is wrong in legal terms. I am not yet talking about the content of what is being defended behind the notion of a moratorium, but a moratorium is suspending the administrative measure represented by the Wathelet plan. There is no need to suspend what has been declared illegal by the Court of First Instance, which is now res judicata since there has been no appeal. The fact of suspending what is declared illegal makes no sense! I tell all my interlocutors to stop semantically using an inappropriate term. Once we have solved this semantic problem, we come to the heart of the debate. Secondly, several court decisions have been made and you cannot ignore any of them. You will tell me that the judgments of the Brussels Court of Appeal did not receive the execution that those who were the beneficiaries could have obtained. However, these 2005 judgments are based on exactly the same type of action as an action for the cessation of an environmental infringement. So, as the mayor of a municipality that still has the same disadvantages, I would like to say clearly again, whether it is the Wathelet plan or the previous plans, that you will sooner or later be confronted with environmental cessation actions again. As soon as there is a violation of the order said Gosuin, you are faced with actions for environmental cessation! The outright return to the situation prior to the May 6 situation will not make you escape the actions of environmental cessation as soon as we find, IBGE's sonometers in support, that violations of the Gosuin Order are committed. To deprive you of any desire for this political point of view, because it is an old fantasy that has been pursued for a long time, you will not find a Brusselsman responsible for questioning the Gosuin decree and trying to reduce its scope. Today, it is the only legal weapon that can combat the intensive overflight of Brussels and obtain satisfaction thanks to the environmental cessation actions carried out successively as a result of any plan. Finally, you will not escape the question of structural measures. The first structural measure is the extension of the European night. If you do not want to enter into this debate, you will have a real sling of the Brussels people, whether they defend one point of view or another. The federal government will therefore have to agree very quickly to enter into the debate on the extension of the European night.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u12	I do believe that it is still important that there should be consultation with the three regions. I also hear that the fines will not be implemented immediately. Mr. Bonte, I can speak for myself. You shouldn't do that for me. We're from the same region. Madam Minister, it is important to us that, in addition to the moratorium, or whatever it may be called, the measures that are being taken should at the same time take account of the routes, for which we are also calling for an evaluation. We hope that you will not go to strengthening the concentration to the Oostrand or the Noordrand in order to avoid a number of measures. Those routes still need to be drawn out. I hope that there will be no further taxation. It has already been said in the past and I say that security is important to us. This is important for every region. Taking the shortest route and flying straight is also an important element for safety reasons. Wind standards must also be applied in the same way. The wind does not blow from all directions as much or as hard, but when one flies with headwind it is logical that there are similar wind standards. If an objective study is to be carried out, this should give more clarity. It is also clear that efforts are being made to avoid concentration in heavily populated areas. For us, it remains important that the principles of the past are taken into account. They can be taken objectively. That's not a problem. Madam Secretary, you are talking about transparency and clarity. I think this is important for all members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, as many questions are being asked in this committee, I would ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure. That is how a ten-minute speaking time will be granted in the event of an inquiry. Otherwise, I would remind you that the speaker has three minutes for his question, that the minister has the same time and that two minutes are provided for the reply. If I do not enforce the Rules of Procedure, I fear that we will spend the night there. As I have just demonstrated, it is quite possible not to exceed his speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u14	Madam Chair, the Rules provide for ten minutes per inquiry and five minutes per question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u15	We will check what the Rules of Procedure provide. But in any case, the time required for an inquiry or question is not as long as some claim. If I do not enforce the Rules of Procedure, we will not reach the end of our agenda, and know that I do not intend to spend my nights with you on questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u16	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns the emergency procedure for passenger trains. In March an incident occurred on a passenger train. A passenger became unwell and they pressed the emergency button, but the train just drove on and the train attendant only arrived at the next station on the spot. Moreover, the incident only came to light six months later, precisely the time when the passenger had to wait for a response from SNCB to his complaint concerning the distress signal. SNCB has apologized for this. One of the reasons would be that young people had already called the train guide several times via the emergency button. I can understand that this creates frustration among train drivers, but there can also be a serious incident. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Are there indeed so many emergency signals on passenger trains every day, which are not really an emergency but are the result of young people playing? How many emergency signals are we talking about? What procedure should train escorts and train drivers follow in the event of an emergency signal? Can we just pretend that nothing happened? Were any initiatives taken in response to this incident to avoid such a thing in the future? Finally, why did it take six months to reply to that complaint?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u17	Madam President, SNCB tells me that the question is about the emergency assistance button that is present on modern equipment. SNCB does not have any figures on the use of the emergency assistance button. It notes, however, that this button is used for all kinds of situations, for example to obtain additional information on connections and tickets, or information from the chief on abnormal situations such as the presence of sick travellers or malicious acts. SNCB has transferred to me the procedure that train escorts must follow, and I will deliver it to you in writing. SNCB also informed me that the complaint referred to by the honourable Member was lodged on 21 March and was finally answered on 24 June, i.e. not after six, but after three months! The studies carried out have taken longer than anticipated. The driver shall be informed of the seriousness of the situation by the train manager concerned or by Traffic Control. Depending on the situation, it must stop immediately or observe an additional standstill. When operating an auxiliary button, the board chief must take the measures described in the procedure I will provide you with. If it appears that the auxiliary button was operated without cause, the on-board chief can only detect this, turn off the alarms and reset the aid button concerned. According to SNCB, a review of this procedure is not necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, although I am somewhat surprised by the SNCB's reply. If that button is indeed used so often, it is not about abuse, simply to get information, then there is something wrong with SNCB's information, that is clear. Then something must be changed about the emergency procedure. Again, if there really is an emergency and the driver and the train do not respond, this can have serious consequences. I am anxiously waiting for the procedure that you will inform me of. I really don't think this is a way of working, and I'm sure I'll talk about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u19	Colleagues, I would like to point out that Rule 48 of the Rules of Procedure provides a total of five minutes for each question - for the question, the answer and the reply. We can be a little broad, but we will try to respect that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u20	Madam Minister, on 18 April 2013, the resolution was adopted in the Chamber to promote intelligent speed adjustment. The resolution is part of the European ITS Directive and the recommendations of the Federal Commission on Road Safety. In the text, Parliament asked the government to work actively to further develop the decision-making process around ISA and said that within six months the government should submit a plan to Parliament for approval which, in consultation with the European authorities and the Regions, establishes a strategy to promote the use of ISA. As a new Minister for Mobility, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that the main causes of death in traffic are speed and alcohol. All studies have shown that ISA can seriously reduce the number of road deaths. I questioned your predecessor a few times about this and he kept saying that the authorities were preparing the plan. In the meantime, we have been more than a year. Madam Secretary, can you give me an update on the plan? When will you come to explain the plan in Parliament? Do you share my opinion, and actually the opinion of the previous assembly, that our country should take the lead in implementing ISA?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u21	Madam Minister, in order to save some time, I fully support Mr Temmerman's question, which I fully support. We worked together on a resolution in the previous legislature. It is important that there is a signal that the committee maintains it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u22	The plan was delivered by the administration to my predecessor. It will now be delivered to me after any actualization. I expect to be able to provide an explanation at the beginning of next year. My response to this depends not only on the content of the plan, but also on the position of the Regions. Belgium can only take the lead in the implementation of ISA if a common approach is taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u23	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. We will certainly follow up the dossier together, with thanks for the support of Mr Van den Bergh. I note that the plan needs to be updated, which I do not quite understand, because there is not much to update in the plan, and that you want to come to the committee with it at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u24	Madam President, in order to limit time, I will keep my question very brief. Madam Secretary, you know the file. The DIV office in Ghent is planted in a very crowded area, even in a bicycle street and in a place where it absolutely doesn't belong. The previous minister has taken steps to move the DIV office. Do you follow the file further? Have any progress been made in finding a new location? Madam Minister, I would also like to invite you to come to Ghent once, and the previous Minister has done so, and to look at the problems caused by the DIV office in question between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m. in a narrow road, in a bicycle street.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u25	A meeting with the FPS Mobility and Transport took place on 20 March 2013 with my predecessor, Mr Melchior Wathelet, then Secretary of State for Mobility, and Mr Daniel Termont, Mayor of Ghent in the presence of SBAT. It is the SBAT company which houses the provincial DIV antenna in Ghent free of charge on the basis of Article 12 of the Royal Decree laying down the conditions of recognition and the rules governing the administrative control of the institutions responsible for the control of vehicles put into service. It is also the company SBAT which has paid the costs for the installation of the location on the Fisheries rented by them and also bears the operating costs for the operation of the DIV antenna in Ghent. Since 1 July 2014, as a result of the sixth state reform, the monitoring of compliance with the technical federal requirements for vehicles with regard to their entry into service and the technical inspection of vehicles in application of the federal standards has become a regional competence. A possible relocation of the DIV antenna in Ghent will therefore have to be discussed with the Flemish Region, which has been responsible for the administrative control of the institutions responsible for controlling the vehicles put into service since 1 July 2014. Given the answer to the first and second questions, the FPS Mobility currently has no alternative location in mind. My administration will organise a meeting with the Flemish Region, representatives of the city of Ghent and the company SBAT to see if a removal from the office can be considered. Mrs. Temmerman, I'd be delighted to accept your invitation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u26	Madam Minister, thank you for accepting the invitation, but your answer is totally unsatisfactory. Excuse me. Everything you read in the beginning, I heard from Mr Wathelet a year ago. In the light of the request made by the chairman of the committee to respect speaking time, it was not necessary to repeat all this. At that time, alternative locations have been proposed by the city of Ghent to your administration and Minister Wathelet's cabinet. I assume there's some communication when transferring the files after all. Alternative locations have been discussed with your services. It's still the DIV that's jamming in there. You will have to get up early for this, but I invite you to do so with the mayor to come and see the situation. From seven hours the people in the area are woken up and cyclists are drove off the road, because you and your administration want the DIV office to stay there.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u27	Madam Minister, it is well known that there are problems about to arise at the time when the switch-off plan will come into effect, particularly in the organisation of our rail traffic, but also in the organisation of signalling systems, train switches and certainly the consideration. SNCB is one of the largest pantographs in our country. At the time that SNCB knows its peak, there is also a peak in electricity consumption, especially in the morning, when people go to work and at night, when they go back home. So there's a problem there. I believe I have understood that there have been discussions for some time between Infrabel, the FPS Economy, the SNCB, the Energy Department and yourself, your cabinet and your administration, but so far few solutions have been put forward. For us, it is very important that we know in advance where we stand and that there is clear communication and clear planning. Madam Minister, we know that preparations are under way, but I would like to know very specifically what measures can be taken. Is there a scenario in which SNCB and Infrabel are protected? If so, what is that scenario? Can you clarify that? How's that gonna happen? Will this be done with communication systems, such as GSM-R and the ERTMS and TBL1+ safety systems, in order to ensure rail safety? Quid with barriers, traffic lights and so on? How will the municipalities be communicated? The municipalities are, in my view, the most important partners in this area. What communication will you have? Are you prepared to say, once all possibilities have been examined, in clear communication and in time, that there will be no trains, so that the people know what they can prepare for?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u28	Madam Minister, I agree with Mr Geerts' questions. I think it is important to clarify this matter as quickly as possible, both for travellers, for users of goods transport and for road users. In the event of a power outage, the plans will close and entire areas will become unreachable by road. Train traffic is not directly affected because the overhead lines are directly fed by Elijah. They are not caught by the demand to stop the power take-off. Of course, all users are asked at a certain stage to take demand-restricting measures. That is my first question. In what way can Infrabel or SNCB respond to the demand for restrictive measures? This can be from less light, less comfort on the trains to adjusting the train services on a weekend service. Those are possible measures. At the next stage of the exit plan, certain zones will be switched off. At that moment, the peripheral installations are being compromised, namely the consideration, the signals, the switches, the electricity supply at the stations and the announcement signs. At that time, we need a very well-developed plan so that passengers are sufficiently informed about whether or not there is an offer for them. Madam Secretary, how will we deal with this? There's a scenario going around like there wouldn't be any train traffic all day on those days when the exit plan would come into effect. There may be reasons for this, but we would like to know these reasons. It is very important that sufficient information is provided on this issue, in the interests of users' transport facilities, but also in the interests of the safety of the entire train network. Madam Secretary, what will happen to rail traffic in the event of a switch-off? Will SNCB take certain steps to avoid disruption of train traffic as far as possible? Will an alternative transport be provided if there are no trains? What is the impact of a switch-off on freight transport? What will happen to the consideration, which in any case closes down in the event of power failure? After ten minutes, it'll go to a state of emergency. We must be able to guarantee the accessibility of emergency services.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u29	Madam President, I immediately studied the problem and I had a working meeting yesterday with the cabinet of the Minister for Energy, Elia, Infrabel, SNCB and the FPS Mobility. Both SNCB and Infrabel are well aware of the potential risks associated with a possible stopover for the traffic and safety of trains. For a few weeks, there have been regular contacts between Infrabel, SNCB, electricity suppliers and the Energy Department in order to assess the risks to rail transport and railway safety and to explore together measures that can be taken to avoid these risks as far as possible. In the event of a switch-off, the traction energy would not be affected, but it is different with the signalling systems, which means that different scenarios have to be drawn out on the basis of precise maps and plans. Infrabel and SNCB have listed a number of additional measures which can be applied this winter, for example in connection with heating, office lighting, sensitisation of staff and so on. The aim is above all to do everything possible to prevent the shutdown. Cooperation between Elia, Infrabel and SNCB will continue in the coming weeks with a view to establishing a list of measures to be taken according to the extent to which electricity is supplied and to determine the method of communicating these measures to operators and the general public.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u30	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I think it is very good that you are aware of the risks involved. One of the results of the meetings of the working group you mentioned concerns the measures relating to heating and lighting in the offices. However, my essential question is what will happen effectively with regard to the scenario on rail safety, and what timing will be used in this respect. I am not concerned that the heating is turned down one degree in the offices and the lighting is turned off. For me, it is important to know what will be done on the safety of the consideration. How will that be organised? Or can't that be organized? That is the most essential question, but you only answer about the heating and lighting.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u31	Madam President, I too would like to thank the Minister for her reply, although it did not contain many new elements, which I regret somewhat. Madam Minister, it is very important that this matter is communicated in good time and clearly. If trains could not actually run on the days when the switch-off plan would be in place, it would be reported that sufficient power would be saved so that the zones concerned would not run without electricity. These seem to me to be important elements to take into account in all the emergency plans that are being drawn up today, both at national level and in the various provinces. For example, the consideration for many municipal authorities is also an important concern. It would be good if this were to be clarified quickly, and by this I mean not within a period of weeks but of days.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u32	With regard to the problem of the recovery plan, I would just like to point out that there has been a great deal of work done in the Committee on the Economy. If we have time, I think we should have a meeting here, too, on the whole issue of the impact of the clearance plan on the SNCB and the statements of the managing director this morning. Madam Minister, if you will, we will contact your office. This will allow for an exchange of views on this issue if the committee and the minister agree. I think this is important given the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u33	Madam President, Madam Minister, the new SNCB timetable will enter into force on 14 December. A lot of meetings were already held on this subject, but when they put things online on the website, they still found elements that were bad or not communicated in advance. For example, very drastic cuts were made in the train supply on the Ghent-Aalst line. This happened mainly in the morning and evening pits, when most people take the train. It also applies to the spread. Now one has an IC train and a P train with an interval of five minutes, which means that between 7h 00 and 8h 30, in the middle of the rush hour, there is only one train left. This line and the municipalities Merelbeke and Melle are located next to the driveways of the E40 motorway. This means that many commuters will take the car again to, hopefully, the nearby station or to drive it to Brussels. Is SNCB planning any changes to the transport plan? Are there any figures of the number of commuters taking this train? If the plan is implemented, how many commuters are left? Will there be any impact on the evaluation to give this line again the frequency it had before?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u34	Madam President, Minister, I agree with Mr Temmerman's introduction. Information meetings were held in advance at provincial level, but subsequent changes were made which were not clearly communicated in advance. When one consults the website, it is noted that these changes are significant. Among other things on that line one goes in a time span of one and a half hours from four to two trains and then with only five minutes in between, so there is actually only one way to take the train. It is a line to Aalst, where many people work and where a large government institution is located, where a lot of people go by public transport. Madam Secretary, I have a number of specific questions. For what reasons was it decided to cut down the timetable between Merelbeke, Melle and Aalst and to reduce the number of trains in peak hours so significantly? Why were only two trains planned, and then with an interval of only five minutes, giving people virtually no choice? That doesn't make any sense at all. After all, the logic of the reform was to work with a cadence too, to ensure that trains, when driving one or two per hour, are nicely spread within the hour. This logic has certainly not been applied here. Is SNCB prepared to review the offer on that line in the short term? This could be done by either stopping additional trains again, or by increasing the five-minute interval, so that there is more choice. When will there be an evaluation of the new transport plan and specifically for that particular line?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u35	SNCB is fully engaged in the practical preparations for the new transport plan and no longer plans any changes in the offer before the start of the plan. This plan was approved by the previous government, with Mrs Temmerman's party. The technical conditions for the offer remain in the new timetable. A review is not simply possible. Due to the fact that the new transport plan provides for an additional cadenced connection on line 50a and the adapted regulations for routes on the Brussels North-South link, there were not many lanes left to lay P-trains, both on the fast line 50a Ghent-Brussels and on the line 50 Ghent-Brussels via Merelbeke and Aalst. Of the five P-trains that drive today in the morning peak from Ghent via Merelbeke to Aalst, only one train could be kept. In the evening peak there are no more P-trains connecting Aalst directly to Merelbeke, while today there are four P-trains. As far as your question on the interval is concerned, SNCB informs me that there was little freedom of choice in the positioning of P-trains. Of the approximately 850 travellers in Merelbeke, 40% wish to travel to Brussels. Ghent follows with 19 % and Aalst is the third choice with only 3.4 % of the departing passengers. Melle has about 700 travelers per day on working days. The main destinations there are: 35 % Gent, 20 % Brussels, 4.3 % Zottegem and 3.8 % Aalst. For Merelbeke and Melle together it is about sixty passengers who need a connection with Aalst. The evaluation of the transport plan shall begin on 14 December 2014. However, SNCB is prepared to re-examine a possible adjustment of the Merelbeke-Aalst offer, together with Infrabel, if new possibilities arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u36	Madam President, Minister, it is a positive thing that we are ready to review it. I think it's a little faint that you're saying my party co-approved this. In the past, I have also approved other matters which, for one reason or another, proved to have had consequences; then one must also be prepared to say that it is not okay and that it will be revised. I know that this is your standard answer, and it will also be my standard answer to you every time you say that we have agreed to it. There can always be facts that may require a previous decision to be revised; only the people who always believe in their own equal never change anything. In any case, SNCB says, unlike you, that it is prepared to look at things and, if there are problems, to change things. You say it's about zero point so much percent. That surprises me. If we ask for figures, SNCB will not be able to give them; only if it fits in a little, will we get those figures. I would also like to ask that we be able to look online at the figures that SNCB keeps. You don't find 60 travellers that much, but if those 60 passengers all crawl into a car, there are sixty more cars on the track. I'd like to repeat that. I'll keep it positive. I insist that things be evaluated, that there will also be censuses of the people who are now using the train and of the people who will still be using this train after 14 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u37	Madam President, Minister, I also found your answer rather disappointing, but of course you will only get that explanation from SNCB and you will not be able to interpret it differently. There is no argument as to why these changes have been made, nor has they been communicated in advance in the provincial rounds; they have been kept away from this beautifully and neatly, even though it is an important connection. We are talking about 60 people, and they are quite important. Many will have to take the car to Ghent again or go to other major stations. So this is absolutely not a solution to the serious mobility problems surrounding that city. The only positive element is indeed that you are prepared to have the possible adjustments examined after 14 December. I hope that you will not base your remarks on the numbers after 14 December, but on the numbers before 14 December, otherwise we will of course already know the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u38	Madam Secretary, on the evening of 10 October 2014, a frontal collision between two trains was avoided near Schaarbeek. The trains had ended up on the same track and drove towards each other. The cause is not yet clear. One hundred and fifty passengers on these trains stayed stuck for hours after the end, until an additional train allowed passengers to switch over and bring them back to Brussels-South. Firstly, what lessons does SNCB draw from the near-accident? Secondly, how come the evacuation of passengers took so long? Thirdly, do plans, plans or scenarios exist to evacuate passengers as quickly and safely as possible when trains are stopped? If so, have those procedures been correctly followed in the event in question? Could improvements be made as a result of the evacuation in order to speed up this procedure on a subsequent occasion? Madam Secretary, if there are no scenarios, do you intend to have them drawn up in order to avoid passengers being stuck on a train for hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u39	Madam Minister, Mr Van Hecke has already given an explanation. In addition, I have to note that the train driver apparently ignored a red signal. The Special Commission on Railway Safety has submitted a number of joint recommendations to counter the passing of signals. Not only the TBL1+ stop system is important. The safety culture in the company itself and factors such as visibility and workload are also important. Firstly, how many metres apart have the trains come to a standstill? I have read several statements about this in the press. Secondly, have previous accidents occurred at the signal in question? That question is essential because we need to find out whether or not measures have been taken to improve visibility. Thirdly, had prior reports been received that the signal was malfunctioning or unclear? Fourthly, if the first indications are correct that the driver ignored the red signal, the question arises as to how long the driver has been driving on the line in question. So was there enough line knowledge? How many hours did the person involved go through? Fifthly, what is the status of drivers' driving and rest periods? Is it true that there are still no breaks for train drivers on national routes? Sixthly, will the investigating body be involved in such incidents as well? Seventh, what reasons did the driver himself state? Eighth, why did the evacuation take so long?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u40	Mr Geerts, the two trains came to a standstill at 158 metres from each other. Infrabel lets me know that the signal has already been passed twice. On 9 June 2005 the signal passed 40 meters and on 4 October 2007 48 meters. That signal was not reported at all. The driver was employed for seven months and had the necessary line knowledge to drive in that place. At the time of the incident, five hours and forty minutes had passed since the beginning of his performance. Every effort will be made to ensure that drivers have a break during their day performance. That break is scheduled as much as possible halfway through the service. In its letter of 16 October last, the railway safety investigating body of the FPS Mobility informed SNCB that, pursuant to Article 11 of the railway codex, it intends to launch an in-depth investigation into the incident. In the context of the investigation, the train driver has indeed made a statement. Its contents will not be released as long as the investigation is ongoing. Mr Van Hecke, during the training of the drivers, constant and permanent attention must be paid to the conditions which can lead to the irregular passing of a closed signal and to the training of preventive measures. During training on the simulator, checks shall be made whether drivers control emergency procedures and whether they respond rapidly and effectively. Equipping the rolling stock and infrastructure with the TBL1+ technology has proved its worth. However, it is clear that efforts need to be rapidly strengthened by the roll-out of ETCS. That system constantly controls the speed and not only when the train approaches a signal. The reception of passengers in such circumstances can still be improved and, above all, should become a shared concern of the various actors involved in the field. The specialised security services of SNCB and Infrabel also carry out other analyses. In addition, as I said earlier, the investigating body for the railway safety of the FPS Mobility is opening an investigation. The evacuation of passengers indeed took a relatively long time due to an unfavourable coincidence of circumstances. It was already dark and the scene of the incident was not suitable to evacuate the passengers on foot. In addition, there were sudden technical problems with the rolling stock that would be used to evacuate passengers and the excess performance of the driver had to be taken into account. However, there is a factor that has contributed significantly to the extension of the evacuation period, namely the intervention of the Federal Railway Police and then the Brussels Public Prosecutor. Between 21:20 and 23:15 they prohibited the movement of one of the trains involved in the accident. However, that was the most appropriate way of evacuation, because there were no injuries and there was no damage. There is indeed an emergency intervention plan, consisting of different instructions and procedures at the level of SNCB's operational services. The procedures were followed, but it is difficult to charge 100 per cent of all possible local conditions and unexpected turns in these procedures. It goes without saying that SNCB analyses every difficult situation in order to draw lessons from it. At the moment there are talks with Infrabel about the improvements that could be made if a similar situation occurs in the future. In view of the progress of the events in Schaerbeek, these talks will be extended to the Federal Railway Police and the Public Prosecutor, so that the rapid evacuation of passengers will also become one of their priorities. Taking into account the reply I have just given, it is not appropriate to take additional measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. In my view, we all have to understand the work that public prosecutors and police should do, especially when it could have been a serious accident. I understand, for example, that vehicles cannot be moved for a certain period of time, but there are other ways to evacuate passengers quickly. In this case, after a while the passengers could safely switch to a train that was next to it. I think that we really need to look at how passengers can be evacuated in a safe and at the same time quickly. I understand from your reply that this will be studied more closely and in more detail so that the plans can be adjusted. I hope that similar situations will not arise in the event of another incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u42	Madam Minister, thank you for your very specific answers to my questions. In fact, the railway companies must consider what agreements can be made with the federal railway police and with the various public prosecutors so that they can be evacuated more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u43	Madam President, Minister, I will have this item placed on the agenda every week in order to obtain more clarity and a state of play on the discussions with the various railway undertakings, where you think you can save money.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u44	Madam President, I gave most of the answers during my speech in plenary on 23 October. Right now, everything's for now. Working groups should refine the distributions and allocations of expenditure on the basis of the proposals of SNCB and Infrabel. The savings will be borne by SNCB at 53% and by Infrabel at 47%. Specifically, there is a saving of 188 million euros in 2015. The distribution will be refined or adapted in the course of the year, after further consultation with SNCB and Infrabel. The structural savings decided on during the previous legislature, amounting to 150 million a year, are distributed in the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u45	Madam Minister, I have received a new element, in particular the allocation of 53 % and 47 %. This allows us to estimate in advance where the various companies will be affected.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u46	We will have a real debate on this in the context of the budget debate that is being announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u47	I give the floor to Mr Van den Bergh to answer his question. 58 on the driver's dynamometer identification.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u48	Madam President, I would like to take the floor on the order of business. If we can maintain the procedure of the previous legislature, I am prepared to turn some of my questions into written questions, provided that we now have a copy of the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u49	It'll be the next day, since we're counting everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u50	Then I will put these and a number of other questions into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u51	Madam President, I would like to do the same. However, it is a written question which was converted into an oral question because the deadline had expired. May I ask my question No. Then transform 133 back into a written question?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u52	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u53	Madam President, Minister, this question concerns the Thalys connection between Ostend and Paris. Everyone knows the story. This train is also referred to as the "spook-thalies' train, at least as far as the route from Ostend to Brussels is concerned. It's like Halloween every day at the SNCB. The occupancy of this train connection is very low, only 7%. Moreover, a few minutes after this Thalys leaves a regular IC connection with which travellers from Ostend, Bruges and Ghent arrive in Paris at exactly the same time, just because the Thalys is waiting in Brussels for the passengers of the IC connection. The direct Thalys connection would absorb around 1.9 million euros annually from the federal government budget. The train would have arrived as compensation for a Thalys to Namur. In view of the low capacity utilisation rate, the presence of a completely similar and equivalent alternative and the high cost, an evaluation seems to us to be highly necessary. However, to everyone's surprise, the Thalys connection in question is unchanged in the new timetable from 14 December 2014. However, the government agreement states that public resources are to be concentrated on domestic services. So I have a few questions. What is the position of this government with regard to the direct Thalys connection to Ostend-Paris? What's the exact number of passengers? Are the figures valid in the press, in particular a capacity utilisation rate of 7%? If the train connection remains unchanged, what are the reasons for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u54	Madam President, Minister, I would like to endorse the questions put by Mr De Coninck. The story is well known. However, I would like to point out that this is, of course, included in the current management contract. Perhaps it will be a discussion for the next management contracts if we want to put an end to the ghost thalys. I would also like to link the demand for the Walloon counterpart. After all, there was once a Flemish minister in the federal government who said that this connection could be cancelled, as it is hardly used, but that the Walloon counterpart had to be removed. We need to weigh this up carefully and see how much this connection is used and how much efficiency and loss the counterpart produces. I would therefore like to add the element of the Thalys link between Namur and Brussels-Paris.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, international traffic by rail, like the direct Thalys connection Ostend-Paris, is a liberalised activity in which railway undertakings are free to benefit or not according to their own perceptions of profitability. Nevertheless, the management contract provides for the possibility of granting part of the dotation to international trains when they have a function of domestic co-use for passengers in inland traffic. In view of the fact that the trains on this connection did not temporarily operate between 1 January and 31 March 2013 and that a number of trains temporarily did not circulate in 2012, SNCB provided me with the passenger numbers between 1 April 2013 and 31 March 2014, in order to be able to give an annual figure. During that period, a total of 44 821 passengers made use of this connection, of which 715 were passengers in inland traffic; they were travellers of origin or destination Ostend, Bruges or Ghent. The maintenance of this rail link would indicate either that Thalys would have international confidence in the profitability of this axis or that the shareholders would continue to allocate money for the purpose of domestic co-use, in so far as there is sufficient funding for that purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u56	Madam Minister, is the figure of 44 821 passengers you are quoting on the line from Ostend to Brussels or are the passengers who leave Brussels included? That's not entirely clear to me. Furthermore, I look forward to the debate on the management agreement and I hope that we can work constructively on it, taking into account the passage in the government agreement to focus on domestic services.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u57	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. However, you did not reply to the second part of my question concerning the Thalys connection between Namur and Brussels-Paris, but I assume that it will also be evaluated in the light of the new management contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u58	I apologize, but I've overlooked that the questions were merged. It is too early to answer these questions, as discussions on the management contract have yet to start. Today, the State allocates to SNCB a total amount of the tasks included in the management contract, including the domestic co-use of international trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u59	Of course, that doesn't change my reply much. Like my colleague, I look forward to the discussion on the evaluation of the new management contract. This point will be important. Let me quickly calculate: 715 domestic users means barely two travellers a day. That number does not seem to me to continue to spend the money invested in it, at the expense of domestic travel. We look forward to the debate on this, which will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u60	Madam President, Minister, the Iron Rhine is a dossier which you will undoubtedly see in the coming years that it will be dealt with regularly in the Infrastructure Committee. During the previous legislature, several ministers were responsible for mobility and therefore also for the Iron Rhine dossier. I do not have to tell you that the Iron Rhine is a very important dossier for the port of Antwerp. The matter had to be discussed at international level. There has even been a ruling from the International Court of Justice on this matter. This led to a ministerial consultation between Belgium and the Netherlands about three years ago, when an agreement was reached on the historic route which both countries regard as the final route for the Iron Rhine. That agreement came three years ago. At that time it was also agreed that the administrations of both countries would draw up a draft for the distribution of costs for the re-use of the Iron Rhine. Part of the route on Dutch territory had to be reactivated. The preparatory work has been completed since the end of 2012. There is a Memorandum of Understanding setting out the concrete policy arrangements between the two countries. From the end of 2012 until today, the memorandum is held for almost two years by a member of the government, first Secretary of State Wathelet and then Minister Labille. They have always stated here in Parliament that the memorandum would, of course, be submitted to the Council of Ministers. On 12 March 2014, the Minister here in committee simply stated that the Memorandum of Understanding was still not submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. He also noted that the matter would be decided by the next government, i.e. the government to which you belong. I've checked the coalition agreement. I do not read any reference or mention of the Iron Rhine file anywhere. You understand that I am very worried. So I would have liked to hear from you the following. Firstly, does the absence of reference to the Iron Rhine in the coalition agreement imply that the current majority is no longer convinced of the economic importance of the rail link in question to the German Ruhr area? Secondly, are you prepared to submit the Memorandum of Understanding to the Council of Ministers? Thirdly, are you prepared to deliver the draft Memorandum of Understanding to Parliament as well? Fourthly, is further consultation planned with your Dutch colleague responsible for this dossier? Fifthly, what is the further procedure in that file in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u61	The coalition agreement sets out the broad lines of mobility policy and cannot therefore be regarded as a catalogue giving an overview of all rail projects to be carried out in the coming years. On the other hand, the agreement states that rail infrastructure projects for freight transport and access to economic ports are given particular attention in the multi-annual investment plan. Attention to the priority rail investments proposed by the regions under an integrated mobility plan will be a central element. In the light of these elements, the current government will ensure that the Iron Rhine dossier will make progress. In the next few weeks, I will discuss with my administration the possible slopes to reactivate that file. The draft memorandum of understanding is only part of that complex dossier. Among other things, that document should seek to settle a disagreement between Belgium and the Netherlands regarding the payment of VAT. According to the Dutch administration, Belgium has to pay VAT on its contributions to the investment costs on Dutch territory, but according to the FPS Mobility Belgium does not owe VAT. Other, more fundamental questions still need to be answered before they can go further in that file. After all, I conclude from recent reports that Germany is investigating an alternative route. In this respect, it is necessary to clarify this alternative route first and it is premature at the moment to submit the memorandum of understanding to the Council of Ministers. Until then, I do not think it is desirable to make the memorandum of understanding public so that negotiations could take place in a climate that is as serene as possible. It is necessary first to clarify the coverage of the alternative routes in Germany, before again sitting around the table with the Netherlands. I can assure you that I will continue to discuss this dossier in the coming weeks, including those from the neighbouring countries concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u62	Madam Minister, I would suggest that you do not rely too much on press coverage to hear the views of neighbouring countries. I note that you will take the next few weeks to consult both your administration and the neighbouring countries. I will, of course, give you that time, and I would therefore like to agree with you that in January I should like to ask you again about this dossier and then get an update from you. It is absolutely important that steps are taken. It is not okay that Germany should first be heard, then again to speak with the Netherlands. I really want to insist on this economically important dossier. This government has highlighted economic growth as one of its key objectives. Well, this dossier can create economic growth and the port of Antwerp is absolutely asking. So in a few weeks, beginning next year, I will ask you about the state of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u63	Madam Minister, there seems to be some discussion between the various federal and regional administrations on competence in the area of professional competence, in-service training for professional drivers of lorries and buses. However, the text of the state reform agreement seems clear to us. The power to regulate training and examinations, including the conditions for recognition of driving schools and examination centres, is a regional competence. Determining the knowledge and skills remains a federal competence. The way in which this knowledge and skills are acquired and assessed becomes a regional competence. The jurisdiction with regard to the driving In other words, professional competence becomes a regional competence. Only the recognition of the training modules of the organisations which organise the training of professional competence is still being carried out federally. Apparently, to the displeasure of your Flemish colleague, the FPS Mobility would contradict that reasoning. That is why I am asking you this question. The Flemish minister himself goes a long way by saying that the whole of the driving training is a competence of the Regions. This is also not in line with the approved texts. I think it is important to clarify and clarify the situation. Can you endorse the reasoning that has just been set out on the competence of the regions with regard to competence? Where is the transfer of that competence to the Regions? It is, of course, important for the organisations concerned to ensure that the transition is as smooth as possible. There is concern about the extent to which vocational training is being followed. We're in there with a deadline of 2015. Professional transport organisations would have delayed behaviour, as a trained driver could go to the competition. For this reason, drivers are not yet allowed to follow this training. Small fleets would not be sufficiently aware of this. What's the status? Do you see a problem in this? Do you consider that additional measures are necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u64	Madam President, the Directive 2003/59CE allows the members of the European Union to decide freely how to acquire professional competence. In Belgium, an examination was chosen for this purpose. The examination basic qualification group C or D was arranged. That examination shall allow any person with a valid licence for category C, C1, C+E, C1+E or D, D1, D+E or D1+E respectively to obtain the professional qualification. There is no compulsory training prior to the basic qualification examination. In addition to the basic qualification examination, another important part of the professional competence is continuing training, which was imposed in order to obtain the extension of the professional competence. Continuing training covers various subjects, including driving and rest periods, transport documents, on-board documents, economic driving behaviour and transport communication. Professional competence therefore focuses on road safety. These are the competences that contribute to road traffic with as little risk performance as possible for drivers and other road users. Included are the operations carried out by the driver of a vehicle which has come to a standstill. The driver must also have a thorough knowledge of the vehicle he uses, the load of the vehicle, the legislation on the social environment of road transport, the regulation of goods and passenger transport and all aspects relating to health, traffic and environmental legislation and the logistical and economic environment. So I do not agree with the interpretation of Minister Ben Weyts, since only driving training is transferred by the special law. The special law provides in Article 25 that the following competence has been delegated: Since the examination of basic qualification and continuing training, which allows the extension of the professional skills of drivers, is not the subject of the transfer by the special law, they remain a competence of the federal government. The federal jurisdiction applies not only to the recognition of the modules of continuing training but also to the basic qualification examination. An agreement should be established on the combined examination, taking into account the impact of the mixed competences, with the licence at regional level and the competence at federal level. The organisations concerned are informed. They have already put that question to the administration, which has already informed them. The administration is not concerned about the training modules. Hundred and ten training centres are currently recognized to provide continuing training. In recent months we have also seen a rapid increase in the number of drivers undergoing continuing training. Several magazines specializing in transport, as well as the professional federation always remind the directors of the obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u65	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer, which was clearly provided by the FPS Mobility. That's perfectly understandable. However, I read clearly in the text on state reform that the way in which knowledge and skills are acquired and assessed becomes a regional competence. I do not really care at what level the competence is at, but it must be clear. It is therefore very important that an Inter-Ministerial Conference, or I know much where, should agree on the interpretation of the text and on who is now competent. We should not carry this ambiguity with us for long. I hope that the ministers will get out of it and that clarity will be created.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u66	Madam President, Madam Secretary, a smartwatch, perhaps known by now, is a smartphone that is worn around the wrist, like a watch. Just as a mobile phone in traffic can lead to the necessary danger, a smartwatch can also distract attention from the road. In the meantime, steps have been taken in Britain to punish the use of smartwatch with a fine of 125 euros and three penalty points on the driving licence. Britain knows the use of the driving licence with points, a founding example. In our country, the use of the smartwatch, unlike the regular mobile phone or smartphone, is not specifically punishable in the Road Code. Article 8.4 states that unless a vehicle is stationary or parked, the driver shall not use a portable telephone which he/she holds in his/her hand. Of course, we cannot catalog the smartwatch under that definition. However, it can be said that the use of the watch falls within the scope of Article 8.3 of the Road Code. We believe that it would be appropriate to clarify Article 8.4, specially written for the use of the mobile phone or smartphone in motor vehicles, and to include devices such as the smartwatch in the definition. I'd like to suggest that. Do you support this view? Are you considering adjusting the Road Code in this sense?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u67	Madam Secretary, according to my information, in England, as in Belgium, it is forbidden to use a mobile phone in the car. A violation in England costs 100 pounds, or 127 euros, and three penalty points. I don't think using a smartwatch, which is worn on the wrist, is the same as calling with a cell phone in the hand. By the way, a smartwatch is usually used in combination with a smartphone, which can therefore be used without hands. This does not alter the fact that there can be a greater risk, as in the case of hands-free calls, since the device can be operated. One can also be scattered by the conversation one is having. In this sense, it is possible that not all driving movements can be carried out or there may be a reduction in driving power, which is a violation of Article 8.3 of the Road Code. In that case, a fine of EUR 110 may be imposed. In view of what I have already said, I do not see why the police should act differently from the smartwatch to the use of other devices that could compromise the ability to drive, such as operating a smartphone to send mail, using a tablet, etc. At the moment, only hand-held telephone calls are prohibited. The manipulation of other devices, e.g. sending a text message or e-mail while driving, is not prohibited in itself, but it is prohibited when driving is compromised. We must indeed consider whether we should not explicitly prohibit these manipulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u68	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I am a little surprised that you say that sending text messages today would not be explicitly punishable. I read the article in the Road Code and it is clear that the user should not use a portable phone that he is holding in his hand. I believe that sending text messages falls within that definition. I would therefore be surprised if such use in the car were not a criminal offence. I believe that we need to extend the definition so that a smartphone or mobile phone can only be used hands-free. Then all additional devices connected to such a device, such as a smartwatch, can be included in the definition.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u69	Madam President, I will be brief in view of those fellow Members who are also brief and have already converted a number of questions into written questions. I come from another parliament where there was something more widespread. I understand that in the Chamber we need to get to the point very quickly and that the government is responding very quickly to the point. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are all shocked to see you, Madam Minister, because you were a personal victim of a number of wild strikes by some people at SNCB, mainly in Wallonia. They've actually taken the whole country hostage. I'm a big supporter of social action. Anyone can act in the way that he thinks that social action must and may be taken. However, respect for the rules of the game is necessary. In this respect, the rules of the game are not respected: there was no strike commitment, no announcement of what would happen. In Wallonia, a number of people in the wild have occupied and blocked some trains on the railways. As a result, a large part of the railway network remained unused. I don't think that's possible, Madam Secretary. You may share my opinion. After all, you had those people punished in a rather symbolic way. They were pricked by SNCB and some money will be withheld. We support you as guardian of the institution in this respect, but the sanctions do not go far enough. Do we have a sanctioning device to punish naughty companies like this properly? If there isn't, would you like to expand it? Would you like to take initiatives in this area? It is not only the traveller who is affected by such actions, but also, and above all, the front desk managers of SNCB. They are faced with the frustration of the traveller and must take part in the blows. The people who accompany the train, the people who help the passengers in the stations, the people who stand along the railroad, literally and figuratively: they all become victims of such savage actions by individuals. You and I, Madam Minister, are happy users of SNCB. I believe that 95% to 98% of SNCB employees do what needs to be done, to the satisfaction of travellers. However, there are a number of naughty people who ruin the image of this public transport company. I think you should be able to deal with those naughty, rotten apples. That's why I'm interrupting. Madam Secretary, do we have any legal weapons to sanction these people? How do we deal with that? If we don't have those weapons, are you prepared to extend the arsenal further in that respect? So much for my brief interplay.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u70	I understand the irritation with SNCB's customers. I also regret that these actions took place before I had the opportunity to discuss them with the trade unions. However, I really want to be able to work together, both with the managers of Infrabel and SNCB and with all the trade unions. My door will always be open to the employees' representatives. We must work together in the interests of SNCB's customers, of SNCB's and Infrabel's employees, and of all taxpayers who co-finance rail transport. Under the impetus of then Minister Vervotte, a protocol on work interruptions was concluded with the trade unions in 2008. The agreement was revised and approved in the National Joint Commission on 27 March 2013, with the introduction of an alert procedure giving the consultation even more opportunities than before. It is my wish to go further in that direction. At this stage, I refer to the government agreement, which seeks, on the one hand, to include the protocol of social agreement to prevent wild strikes in the management contracts and in the law, and, on the other hand, to ask the two public railway undertakings, in consultation with the social partners, to make a proposal for the organisation of a guaranteed service in the event of strikes. However, I want to be clear. In view of the serious budgetary context, I can understand the difficulties. Everyone must make efforts. Therefore, priority will be given to social dialogue and the provisions mentioned will in no way call into question the right to strike.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u71	Madam President, une fois nüsest pas coutume, is said to be in Flemish. Pour une fois je serai galant, madame le ministre. I'll push your policy in the back. I don't always do that, and I don't always do that for everyone. In order to support your policy, I will table a motion of recommendation from the opposition to conclude this interplay, which I hope will fully meet the Minister's political vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u72	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Jan Penris and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Jan Penris and the reply of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of the Belgian Railways, - whereas the recent wild actions by SNCB make it clear that malicious few people can cripple large parts of our public transport, - whereas public transport is a basic duty which should be guaranteed at all times, - whereas, at present, the public authorities do not have sufficient instruments to sanction wild actions which disturb our public transport offer, in this case passenger transport by train, asks the government develop the necessary measures to properly sanction workers who enter into public service activities outside normal collective employment relationships." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Jan Penris and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Jan Penris and the response of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the Belgian National Railway Company, - Whereas recent wild actions at SNCB clearly indicate that people of bad will can paralyse important parts of our public transport, - Whereas public transport is a fundamental right which should be guaranteed at all times, - Whereas the State does not currently have satisfactory instruments to sanction the savage actions which disrupt our public transport offer, in this case the carriage of passengers by train, asks the government to take the necessary measures to adequately punish public service workers who organise actions which depart from normal collective labour relations." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Inez De Coninck and Mr Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr Gilles Foret and Mr Veli Yüksel. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Inez De Coninck, Ms. Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr. Gilles Foret and Veli Yüksel. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u73	Madam Minister, in the past I have questioned your predecessor several times about the planned investments at the Vilvoorde station. Despite Vilvoorde's station in the top 20 state of best-served train stations in the country, it is suffering. The stairs to the platforms are barely passable and leak the canopies, so everyone gets wet when it rains. I was promised several times that the renovation works would start soon. SNCB's 2013-2025 investment plan also made the necessary budgets available. In August, for example, the SNCB spokesperson announced that the works would finally start this autumn. As mayor of Vilvoorde, I can only conclude that, despite the timing of the work, it has not been possible to start work on a number of occasions. The newly planned station Machelen-Kerklane is also sick in the same bed. However, the opening of the site by public transport was one of the preconditions for the Flemish government to approve the real estate project Uplace. It is also an argument that is repeatedly used by the Regional Environmental Authorisation Committee in the context of Uplace. The following questions seem relevant to me. Can you give me an update on the applications for permits for the works? What exactly are the interventions planned at Vilvoorde station? What timing does Infrabel and/or SNCB put forward for the realisation of both projects? What budgets will be made available for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u74	The urban permit was obtained on 25 February 2014. In Vilvoorde the station building has already been renovated, but also the other reception structure consisting of the underpass, the canopies, the platforms, the railway overhead lines and the signalling system still has to be renewed. In addition to the renewal of the existing infrastructure, the construction of the second underpass is also planned. At present no specific date can be set: the investigation, which takes account of budgetary constraints, is under way. Infrabel's multi-annual investment plan 2013-2025 planned the construction of Vilvoorde station between 2018 and 2023 for an amount of 19,4 million. Most of the funds will be transferred to SNCB as a result of the reorganisation of 1 January 2014. However, the registered resources from the multiannual plan still need to be thoroughly revised as a result of the savings recently imposed by the federal government. At present, therefore, no commitments can be made. No licence has yet been applied for. In October 2013, however, an installation plan was already presented to the various stakeholders. Subject to the reservation that the necessary resources will be found, recruitment was envisaged in 2018. In the multi-annual investment plan 2013-2025, the works at the station Machelen-Kerklan were not registered. So no concrete commitments can be made at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u75	Madam Secretary, the cold sweat breaks out on me. After ten years, there was finally a decision. We had an agreement with SNCB and Infrabel to set up a communication to the population about the nuisance during the works from 1 September 2014. We should have been doing this for a month and a half. If I have understood you correctly, we cannot now put forward a date with regard to the Vilvoorde station and there is no prospect for Machelen. I deeply regret that. It would be better to stop talking about GEN networks. I'll convey the message.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u76	Madam President, Minister, a private incident was published in the newspapers on 17 October. My question is not just about this private incident, but rather about complaints about racism in SNCB. I noticed that, in response to that incident, SNCB did not provide any figures. Those incidents would be too rare to accommodate in a separate category. However, the Centre for Equal Opportunities and the fight against Racism says that there are actually monthly complaints coming in. I therefore have some general questions about this private incident. Are the allegations that SNCB effectively does not keep statistics of complaints? Is there any willingness to do so in the future? What is SNCB's policy on racism among its employees? Does the training pay sufficient attention to diversity and multiculturality in the recruitment of staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u77	Madam President, Minister, Mr Geerts has addressed the issue in a general way. For my part, I will go back to the incident itself. According to what I was able to read on the RTBF website on Tuesday, October 21, two Belgian-Congolese users as well as writer Saskia De Coster decided to file a complaint against SNCB for racism. Ms De Coster, in her open letter to the managing director, Mr Jo Cornu - published on the website of the newspaper De Morgen of October 18, 2014 - accuses SNCB staff and mainly the train attendant of having reprimanded two black passengers. According to her, they were expelled from the train and, at the same time, were fined for delaying the train by late boarding the train, while several white passengers, mounted at the same time, were released with impunity. According to the article of Thursday, October 16, 2014, the writer Saskia De Coster wanted to take the train to Ghent-Saint-Pierre at the Central Station in Brussels. She would have climbed at the last minute in the company of a brother and a Belgian-Congolese sister and several other white passengers. The writer could have settled without a problem. On the other hand, the two black passengers were reportedly insulted by the controller. In her open letter, Ms De Coster states that the SNCB attendant threatened to call the transport police when the two passengers warned him that they did not understand Dutch. Still it is that once the train arrived at the next station and after announcing a ten-minute stop for a technical problem, two Securail agents came to arrest the two passengers. Ms. De Coster followed them as a witness. After listening to their version of the facts, Securail's agents allegedly told them that this escort was customary for this kind of problem. Nevertheless, a fine was imposed on the two insulted passengers, on the ground that the train was indeed delayed. SNCB indicated through its spokesperson that an internal investigation would be conducted and advised interested parties not to pay the fine, but to file a complaint via the customer service in order to be able to detail the course of the events at best. On the basis of this information, I would like to ask you a number of questions, Madam Minister. So, have you been aware of this event? If so, what were the conclusions of the investigation conducted by SNCB? What measures are being taken to avoid such incidents that tarnish the image of this public enterprise?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, SNCB is well aware of this incident. This was the subject of a detailed investigation and the train attendant was heard. The conclusions are as follows: there was no evidence of racism in the investigation. This is a typical "grey zone" incident during the departure procedure: the delay between the moment when the departure signal is given and the actual departure of the train, when the train's attendant ensures safety from the only door still open. Given that Ms. Saskia De Coster embarked almost simultaneously with the attendant, after the departure procedure had been started, this incident must be considered separately from that of the other two passengers, who later boarded them with a suitcase and who made an already dangerous situation even more dangerous. Embarkation after the departure signal is a violation of SNCB's section 159 conditions of carriage, and may have serious consequences – the fact that the train actually started eight seconds after the last two passengers were boarding attests to this. That the train attendant subsequently reprimands these two passengers and asks them for their identity card is just as understandable, since she was entitled to impose a fine on them on the basis of this irregularity. The forms of observation which were subsequently drawn up against the passengers concerned will, however, be cancelled, as the attendant had established them for the delays incurred, whereas in the case of the last passengers on board, she should have established them for boarding after the order of departure. The actions to be taken are as follows. The train attendant concerned is currently on vacation. As soon as she returns, she and her immediate leaders will be invited to analyze the incident with the manager Securail and the person in charge Accompanying the trains. This will be followed by feedback. A coaching trip will be planned by the zone chief. Other corrective measures will be determined by its hierarchy. Complaints about racism are indeed investigated and followed up by SNCB. Those complaints are only statistically catalogued in the complaint database under a broader heading. However, complaints about racism are rather rare and for this reason they have so far been placed under a broader heading. Complaints arising from a train regulation or an irregularity are currently catalogued separately in another database according to the type of ticket and the type of infringement. In this database, it is not possible today to trace complaints about irregularities associated with racism. However, in the course of 2015, such type of complaint will also be included in the complaint database mentioned above, giving SNCB a comprehensive overview of complaints about its staff's attitude. In the field of recruitment, the Belgian railways have a proactive policy on diversity and multiculturalism. For example, the following concrete actions in the field of diversity and multiculturalism are undertaken in Belgium's railways. Firstly, there is cooperation with the VDAB, Forem and Actiris, with specific attention to the recruitment of the technical profiles. There is also the telephone screening of candidates who do not meet the diploma requirements but who can provide sufficient experience, the training of persons who are in a selection jury and the raising of the diversity within the Belgian railways through our recruitment campaigns and testimonies at www.deRailwayenwervenaan.be.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u79	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u80	Minister, I am surprised at the lightness of your answer! You have the impression that you want to minimize events; yet the facts are there. We are talking about double standards: for some, the fine does not come and for others, it is set. There are two attitudes in the file: on the one hand, the Transport Safety Brigade tells Mrs De Coster that we are used to having problems with this escort. On the other hand, SNCB, through its spokesperson, makes it very clear that the fine must not be paid and that a complaint must be lodged. It is indirect recognition of a mistake made in the head of the attendant. I expected a sharper answer from you. That being said, I've heard of coaching. That is very good, but I think that this type of situation requires a clear and unequivocal response. We will remain vigilant and we will certainly come back to this question because your answers are not enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u81	Madam President, Madam Minister, this is perhaps a somewhat similar question to Mr Bonte's earlier question. It is also about the communication between SNCB and municipal and urban services when there are works. In this particular case it is about working on the line between Bruges and Blankenberge. Last autumn weekend was a windfall off the coast due to the good weather. Tourism benefits the coast at such a time from the many train passengers going to the coast. The city of Blankenberge came very conveniently to know that there would be an interruption of rail traffic on the weekend of November 1 and 2, which is of course very annoying for this tourist city. The city was not informed of this by SNCB, but by the Administration of Roadworks. Following pressure from SNCB, this interruption of train traffic was only confirmed to the city on Friday 24 October. I immediately wonder whether such works are not communicated to the affected cities. How is this communication going with SNCB? Is the relevant city authorities notified in advance? Will there be room for contact with the relevant city authorities in the future? Can there be any consideration of the possibility of participation in this area? In this particular case, it was about a top tourist weekend.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u82	Madam President, Mrs Dumery, Infrabel informs me that in the context of the construction of the A11 the old railway bridge at Lissewege should be demolished. As this specific work has an impact on railway infrastructure and on rail traffic, consultations were held between the builder, Infrabel and SNCB. The timing of these works was set months ago, in July 2014, in consultation with all partners and after consideration of various aspects, such as the yard's progress, independence in planning and the impact on train traffic. The implementation and communication responsibilities are clear here. The execution of the works is in the hands of AW, the work facilities are provided by Infrabel, the impact on passenger transport is monitored by SNCB, the communication and announcements on the execution of the works are the responsibility of the builder and the communication and announcements on the impact of the works on train traffic are the responsibility of SNCB. Infrabel nor TUC RAIL effectively intervenes in the works. SNCB does indeed provide additional communication for large-scale works, but not for a two-day break during the weekend. Then there are yard info posters and messages placed on some monitors in the stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u83	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I conclude from this that there is good consultation between the partners on the ground, such as the builder and everyone involved in the works. We have our own priorities and the work must be done safely. There will indeed be a poster in the stations, but it is sometimes forgotten that the stations are in a city and that the city administration must also be informed. As far as communication is concerned, you referred to the services that should be responsible for this. In this respect, the system has failed. In the future it will be necessary to ensure that cities are involved in communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u84	Madam Minister, Mr Temmerman just referred to the main risk factors in terms of road safety, namely speed and alcohol. I believe, however, that distraction is also an important element. We have already mentioned the use of the smartwatch, but also the use of the mobile phone remains an important source of distraction behind the wheel. According to some studies, who calls behind the wheel is three to four times more likely to have an accident. For text messages, the risk is even 23 times greater. Drivers then have a slower response time, have inappropriate driving behaviour, pay less attention to the environment and are mentally overburdened to perform all driving tasks properly. Sensitisation campaigns have been carried out on several occasions, recently by the BIVV under the slogan "Beep"! Beep! Boom! Boom! According to the traffic law, calling behind the wheel is a second-degree offence, i.e. an offence that indirectly endangers safety, which is punishable by an immediate collection of 110 euros. You indicated that in your answer to my previous question about using the smartwatch. Madam Secretary, was the campaign of the BIVV evaluated? What were the results? Secondly, do you, as the Minister responsible for road safety, consider the sanction that exists today for calling and text messages behind the wheel to be sufficiently heavy? That sanction is based on indirect endangerment, which would result in this act. Thirdly, are you planning any other measures to discourage calls and text messages behind the wheel?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u85	The evaluation of the campaign is under way but has not yet been completed. However, an initial evaluation by the BIVV shows that after the campaign one in three intends to use his mobile less behind the wheel. The sense of risk that calling behind the wheel has a negative effect on driving behaviour after the campaign proved remarkably higher than before. Calling with the hands behind the wheel is currently costing 110 euros. A number of countries have higher fines, for example the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and France. If brought before a court, the fine may amount to EUR 1 500 and the lapse of the right to direct may be decided. In my view, EUR 110 is not little, but an increase can be discussed if it really deters it. I believe that we should, above all, work towards a heavier penalty in the event of a recurrence. I note that more and more car trailers are equipped with a hands-free system to which the mobile phone can even be connected wirelessly. I therefore expect that the general rule will become hands-free when the fleet is renovated. Finally, the chances of getting caught must be sufficiently high. The police need to do more checks on calling behind the wheel.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u86	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. This is a very good answer, I think. I think it is a good thing that this is being considered. The debate on the amount of fines may need to be separated from this about calling at the wheel. Perhaps the time has come to look at the classification of infringements into four categories and the amounts associated with them and see if this classification still passes the topicality test. I would argue more in favour of an overall evaluation of the system which has been in existence for ten years. You are putting forward the approach of recidivism as an important element. I fully agree with that. I believe that we should indeed focus on hard-working drivers and that we should consider, for example, whether a driving licence with points can make a good contribution to this. I fully support that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u87	Madam President, Madam Minister, I am pleased to address my first question to you from this session, and that will not be the last! With more or less precise announcements of budgetary restrictions at SNCB, a certain amount of information circulates and appeals to me, especially in the beautiful province of Liège in which I live. The information which I have, but which is certainly false, indicates that in the very short term there would be a desire or decision by SNCB to disinvest in the maintenance of a series of lines, or even to close a series of C and D lines which are important in rural areas. For example, we learn that lines 42 (Liège-Gouvy-Luxembourg), 43 (Liège-Jemelle), 44 (Pepinster-Spa), 49 (Welkenraedt-Eupen) and 37 beyond Welkenraedt to Germany will no longer be the object of maintenance and investment expenditure. Line 43 is at risk because maintenance and replacement work is required. Similarly, line 37 beyond Welkenraedt must be the subject of work. This shows that the project launched by SNCB, namely the extension of one of the two ICs from Brussels to Welkenraedt to Aachen or Cologne, would be called into question. Only the high-speed line from Liège to Aachen would make it possible to connect Belgium to Germany by train or, more precisely, by using the Thalys or the ICE, whose significantly higher rates are obviously the responsibility of the users. Verviers would therefore no longer have an international relationship and would no longer benefit from a direct railway relationship with Germany. Even the Spa-Aachen of the new SNCB transport plan could no longer circulate. Another source of concern is the impossibility of setting up a Liège Express Network, the study of which is part of the government agreement, given the abandonment of maintenance and investments on the secondary network. Of course, that is quite understandable. Finally, I would like to know – even if I suspect that this is not your favourite literature – whether the government has become aware of the studies of the Walloon Region – I suppose so – concerning the RER of Liège and Charleroi as well as the proposal for a regional train traffic plan for the whole province of Liège proposed by the CGSP Cheminots de Liège.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u88	Mr Frédéric, the SNCB informs me that the new transport plan still provides for the service of Aachen by trains from the domestic service. The current service, i.e. a train every two hours between Liège and Aachen, will be replaced by a locked relationship running every hour between Spa, Verviers and Aachen. Connections are planned in Welkenraedt for customers coming from Liège and wishing to go to Aachen. In addition, longer-term studies are still under way with Aachener Verkehrsverbund to extend an IC train from Brussels to Aachen. As regards the RER project in Liège and Charleroi and the draft regional train traffic plan for the whole province of Liège proposed by the CGSP, these are still under consideration within the framework of Walloon rail investment priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u89	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, although I have not heard everything. It's either due to the deafness related to my age, or to the noise that prevails in this room due to the speed of your remarks. I will therefore go through the text of your reply in detail. Nevertheless, I do not feel that I have been given answers to all my questions. Therefore, I will draw the conclusion myself. I note that what I have put forward is incorrect, that a number of elements need to be checked and that with regard to my major concern and the fact that there is no disinvestment on lines C and D and no eventual closure of these lines in rural areas throughout the country, you confirm that this will never be the case in the years to come. Is that what I need to understand? Since the minister does not say otherwise, I draw this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u90	Your conclusion will be noted in the report, Mr. Frédéric.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u91	Question No 259 by Mr Laurent Devin is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u92	Madam President, Madam Minister, in an interview recently given, Mr Jo Cornu, the CEO of SNCB, told us that the new Desiro trains, manufactured by the German company Siemens Transport, were too unreliable. And because of this, it appears that these trains, whose final delivery would be expected by 2015, fail every 8,000 kilometres, while on average all trains tend to encounter a technical problem every 30,000 kilometres. The consequences of such frequent breakdowns are numerous, both for users who have to suffer the related delays and for SNCB, whose brand image and finances are thus undermined. Madam Minister, while SNCB's debt now amounts to €2.7 billion and SNCB's new transport plan provides for longer journey times to limit delays, it is clear that such a situation cannot continue. What measures do you intend to take to remedy this situation? Who supports repairs? What's the cost? Have you had any contact with Siemens Transport? Are they prepared to commit to cover the amount of repairs related to these technical problems too early? Does this call into question the order for the latest Desiro trains scheduled for 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u93	Madam President, SNCB informs me that Siemens, under pressure from SNCB, is making material improvements in order to achieve the reliability objectives set out in the contracts. Meanwhile, equipment with insufficient reliability remains under warranty. It is obvious that I agree with you and that the repairs must be and are the responsibility of Siemens. According to SNCB, the improvement measures taken by Siemens are expected to make their impact felt in spring 2015. With regard to the next orders, SNCB informs me that all of Desiro's slices have been ordered. To date, 250 out of 305 motor vehicles have been delivered. The balance will be delivered by June 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u94	Madam President, since the minister agrees with me, I can only be satisfied with the answer she has given.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u95	Madam President, Madam Minister, since it was mentioned, SNCB's draft new transportation plan has raised many concerns among the population, in particular because it tended to favour the main lines and the most frequented relations to the detriment of local lines and rural areas. In this respect, prior to its adaptation, it appeared that the plan had the effect of reducing by 50% the number of trains to Brussels from stations such as Mouscron, Comines or Herseaux and of considerably increasing the length of journeys, whereas direct trains to the capital were simply abolished. Last January, the government logically directed SNCB to review its copy, something that seems to have been done since on 13 August last the government finally approved this new SNCB transport plan. Madam Minister, the association for the defence of rail users, commuters.be, which has not been surprisingly invited to the SNCB roadshows, speaks of "cosmetic", "surgical" adaptations, "undoubtedly insufficient and probably carried out with the aim of calming down somewhat the disputing users". What about it? Are these accusations misleading or does this plan, as approved, really take into account the many reactions from citizens during the consultations organized by SNCB in the provinces of the country? Was particular attention given to rural areas, as a large majority of users demanded? In this regard, can you tell me whether the offer from the stations of Mouscron, Comines and Herseaux has been revised upwards as a result of the adjustments made to the plan? As a reminder, the last train to these stations will depart from Brussels and arrive at Tournai at 8.30 p.m. instead of 10.30 p.m. at present. For the record, some of the staff of this honourable house are wondering how they will be able to return to their home in Mouscron. Unless the sittings of Parliament are completed every time before 8:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u96	Dear colleague, the new transport plan, I would remind you, has been approved in the AC where your party is represented and in the Council of Ministers of the previous government where your party was also present. It takes into account both infrastructure and budget constraints, which leads SNCB to reallocate its resources where demand is greatest. SNCB informs me that this plan was presented twice to the elected representatives of the province of Hainaut during roadshows as well as to the stakeholders, including commuters.be, during the meeting organized for them. SNCB made some adjustments where possible. Service amplitude corrections have been made on some lines in order to comply with the management contract. As regards the Tournai-Mouscron section, following an analysis of the use of the various sections of the line, it appeared that there was too little occupation of the hollow hour trains on the section to justify the maintenance of two relations cadenced per hour. It was thus decided in the context of the new transport plan that the basic service on this section would consist of a relationship IC Courtrai-Tournai-Brussels with stop at Herseaux. This offer will be supplemented in peak hours by P trains to Mons and Brussels. In this way, during the morning peak, seven P trains will complete the basic offer: one between Mouscron and Tournai and back, three towards Mons and two towards Brussels. All of these trains will also serve Herseaux. A similar offer is planned in the evening in order to maintain a service provided when the number of customers is highest. This offer was presented at the two roadshows, among others. In view of the financial aspects and the low attendance in off-peak hours, it was decided not to add a second locked relationship to the original project. Changes to the new plan were decided following the second roadshow in order to improve the connections in the morning and evening at the Courtrai station: adaptation of the schedule of some P trains between Poperinge and Courtrai, for Comens travelling to Mouscron, Tournai or Leuze.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u97	Madam President, Minister, I hear your answer. I respect her, but I don't share her. You can say for the next four or five years that our party was associated with the previous government or that we are on the SNCB's board of directors, that will not prevent me from expressing myself in this commission and towards you. I think that from the moment citizens' requests have been identified and no action has been taken on them, our role or even our duty is to worry about their follow-up. I think very honestly that the interest of the community has not been taken into account, particularly with regard to Mouscron, Herseaux and Comens. I will ensure that this local anger is reflected at the level of the Board of Directors of SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u98	Madam President, Minister, in early August, it was reported that in 2013, SNCB had been required to process 554,000 cases for irregularity, an increase of 7.1% over 2012. Of these cases, 92% concerned travellers travelling without a transport document. Madam Minister, with regard to the abyssal debts of SNCB and Infrabel, which amounted to 2.3 billion euros and 1.8 billion euros respectively on 1 January 2014, there is an urgent need to act. When we look at the figures given with regard to the number of irregularities, it is clear that the intensification of controls did not lead to a radical change in the behaviour of fraudulent travellers. What measures are envisaged to ensure that as many passengers as possible pay the amount of their ticket? Are additional recruitment planned in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u99	Madam President, an action plan to step up controls on trains was put in place from 3 November 2014. An information campaign aimed at highlighting sales channels (automates, "Mobile Ticketing", website, counters) was launched yesterday, November 4, via the following media: posters, station screens, mini cards distributed on trains. With regard to recruitment, the 2015 recruitment contingent provides sufficient new staff to complement the accompanying executives and the TiCo teams (Ticket Control Team).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u100	Madam President, Madam Minister, thank you. Short but effective answer: concrete elements are provided to these questions. I will no doubt allow myself to come back within three to four months to prepare an initial evaluation of this new action plan put in place since 3 November last.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u101	Madam President, Minister Jean-Marc Jeanfils, a rail passenger mediator at SNCB, complained in the press that, since 1 March 2013, he was no longer allowed to deal with complaints about irregularities with the transport documents. Since then, the traveller who would like to challenge a SNCB decision on fraud has no other way than to go to court, which obviously represents a cost that not everyone is prepared to bear. Such a decline in travellers' rights could result in a reduction in the number of travellers entitled to claim their rights. According to press reports, SNCB would explain this situation by referring to the law of 28 April 2010, which provides, inter alia, that "the Ombudsman may not take any binding action against SNCB or exercise any supervisory power over it". Minister, according to the Ombudsman, since his powers in this area have been limited, travellers would no longer have free recourse in case of suspicion of fraud. What about it? Did your services see a decrease in the recourse of travellers caught for fraud between 2012 and 2013, following the application of the April 28, 2010 law? How can we explain that the SNCB took three years before referring to the 2010 law to limit the powers of the Ombudsman who – it seems – had never been questioned since the creation of the service in the early 1990s? By this measure, is the interest of SNCB not privileged to the detriment of travellers, whereas as a public service, the opposite logic should be applied?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u102	Mr Senesael, I have indeed been informed of differences of opinion between SNCB and the rail passenger mediation service on the interpretation of the law of 28 April 2010 which changed the competences of the mediation service, in particular as regards the role that the mediator can play in cases of transport fraud. Before I comment on the merits of each other's arguments, you will allow me to take the time to meet with the various stakeholders and the travel organizations in order to give me an opinion. You can be sure that I will seek to propose a balanced solution that will guarantee the defence of the passengers who are actually injured and who must be able to be heard, while avoiding costly procedures resulting from the abuse of a minority of fraudsters.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u103	Madam President, I thank the Minister for her answer and for the good will she has shown on this issue, as well as for the foresights and perspectives she will analyse and propose. If she allows me, I will come back in a while to follow up on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u104	Question No 264 by Mr Laurent Devin is postponed until next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u105	Madam President, Madam Minister, according to the Christian union, Jo Cornu, administrator-delegated of SNCB, would consider generalizing contractual recruitment within the public enterprise to the detriment of statutory recruitment. Although such a change could speed up recruitment procedures, it would weaken the status of railway workers as statutory employees, in addition to various advantages, have greater job security than a contractor. SNCB, for its part, refuted these statements. Minister, what really is it? Have you received this proposal to generalize contract recruitment from Mr Cornu? Can you say that such a change will not take place in this Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already had the opportunity to say in plenary, the savings decided by the previous government, in which your party was well represented, and those decided by the present government must not undermine the quality of employment. However, efforts will have to be made. At this stage, I look forward to the proposals of the two CEOs of autonomous public enterprises. Everything can be examined in accordance with social consultation. I have also had the opportunity to recall that I prefer the proposals to be unveiled in the framework of this consultation rather than through the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u107	Thank you, Minister, for your brief answer. In any case, I hear that social consultation will be respected, which I can only rejoice at. In addition, I share your view that it is better to make proposals for social consultation than through the press. I will allow myself to come back to you in a while to know how to follow up on your various proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u108	I assure you, Mr Senesael, that we will have a budgetary debate by the end of the year. And this committee hopes that in the meantime it will have the proposals of the two entities, SNCB and Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u109	Madam Secretary, on Monday 3 November, a working train at Linkebeek on the way from Aalst to Eigenbrakel was driven in the rear of a passenger train. In the end, there are sixteen minor injuries to be regretted. We have already discussed the TBL1+ and ETCS systems in other questions. Apparently, the train was equipped with a TBL1+ system, which also entered into force. According to recent reports, the cause of the collision is to look in the autumn weather and leaves on the tracks. What strikes me is that the tracks were cleaned the night before by another train set in order to avoid such incidents. During this period of the year are of course on many other traces also leaves. I don't understand how leaves can have such consequences. Was Infrabel's working train also equipped with a TBL1+ system or ETCS? Is it true that the leaves are effectively the cause of the collision? Doesn't that ring any bells? Is it true that the trail was effectively cleaned the night before? What is the state of play regarding the roll-out of ETCS in order to avoid all this?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u110	Minister, I will not go back to what my colleague said about the accident. The investigation has only just begun, but it would appear that the causes of the accident could have originated in particular climatic conditions: rain and dead leaves would have played a role in road adhesion. However, there was a question of cleaning a few days before and that raises questions. Minister, can you give us more information on the causes of the accident? When do you think you have the results of the survey? What measures are in place by Infrabel to combat autumn and winter conditions? In view of the tragedies experienced in the past and without wishing to anticipate the results of the survey, what about the willingness to move from the TBL1+ braking system to the ETCS envisaged in the government agreement, in which you referred to the deployment of ETCS? If technology is not fully at stake in this case, what is expected in terms of human investment, of which it is known that it also contributes to the safety of people?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u111	Madam Secretary, I will be brief, because most of the questions have already been asked. How come these two trains could be so close together? Both the trains and the infrastructure were equipped with the TBL1+ system. How is it that such accidents can still happen? What's the explanation for that? What lessons can be drawn from the interventions of the various departments? Many people had to work together here. Did the procedures go well? Should new lessons be drawn from the approach to this incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the circumstances of the accident are concerned, investigations are under way both at the judicial level and at the level of the investigative body. It goes without saying that public companies will work fully with investigators to shed light on this incident. I will therefore start by returning the facts so that you have all the information on the course of events. The facts are as follows. The passenger train concerned is the platform of Linkebeek, where a stop was provided, passed by wheel slip and comes down 56.2 meters from the open signal to a standstill. The next train, a single diesel locomotive, will be marked by the upward signal that the next signal is closed and put a brake on it. Due to wheel slip the inhibition is not effective and the train driver cannot stop the locomotive in time. The locomotive passes the closed signal GYL1 and then comes into collision with the stationary passenger train. I'm going to tell you a few things that could be the cause of the problems on both trains. It was found that the rails along the route between Holleken and Linkebeek were covered with a dark substance resulting from the crushing of fallen leaves under the wheels. This was confirmed by the Public Prosecutor's Office yesterday. From Holleken a decrease is started. Wheelslip through fallen leaves has therefore adversely affected inhibition.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u113	Minister, if you have the answer in French, continue in French. You've been answering for four hours and I can understand how tired you are!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u114	The tracks between Saint Genesius-Rode and Prince were cleaned by Infrabel preventively. During autumn there are daily adhesion trains that spray the tracks clean. Nevertheless, atmospheric conditions such as yesterday may make the work difficult. TBL1+ has been installed and is operating on line 124. The signals IYL1 and GYL1 are both equipped with TBL1+ beacons near the signal. They cause an emergency braking when a train passes the closed signal. Both signals are also preceded by a TBL1+ beacon 300 metres from the signal, which causes an emergency braking when a train approaches the closed signal at a speed of more than 40 kilometres per hour. The work train was equipped with TBL1+. There are no other reports of any malfunction or of the visibility of the signals concerned. There is also no indication of a malfunction or poor visibility of the signals at this event. Every effort will be made to allow drivers to take a break during a day shift scheduled as far as possible in the middle of their shift. According to information obtained in compliance with privacy data, the 19 minor injuries taken for care and observation were eventually removed from hospitals. Several winter measures are taken. Infrabel takes preventive measures such as a targeted inspection of channels and catenaries, a supply of salt, sand and antifreeze products from regional centres and testing of heating systems. The network operator shall also take three measures to prevent the paralysis of its infrastructure: - the activation and regular monitoring of a switch heating system, controlled by the signal booths, in order to prevent them from being blocked by freezing; - the mobilization of snow removal teams, ready 24 hours a day to be sent where the situation so requires, with the first task being the removal of snow and the eventual release of switches; - for the comfort and safety of passengers, snow removal and treatment of the ice with salt and sand on the docks and access to the docks of the stopping points. Infrabel also has two snow cutters mounted on rail-road cranes. This equipment makes it possible to get quickly to any point of the railway network in order to clear the snow from the tracks. As a bonus, and with the aim of responding quickly and effectively to most of the problems related to winter conditions, each sector of Infrabel's activity, be it signage, catenaries or lanes, has a guard service and is organized in such a way as to intervene at any time, at any point in the network. Compared to fall measurements, dead leaves may, under special circumstances (humidity, amount of leaves, wind, pollution, traffic intensity, dry period) form a film on the rail that causes the train to slip on steep slopes. So he doesn't know how to accelerate or brake. On the one hand, Infrabel identified the risk areas, including line 124. These risk areas are treated in a variety of ways, including the use of a Kärcher train that cleans the rails with very high pressure water jets (1,000 bar, 70,000 liter tank, water pressurized by a 300 horsepower truck engine). A service train is also used that combines braking and water dispersal actions to remove the rails from the sheets. Infrabel has also implemented pilot projects such as the placement of anti-foil nets to protect rails.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u115	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. As far as the measures under the winter plan are concerned, we discussed a number of times in this committee during the previous parliamentary term, including the thawing of switches. I was aware of the measures that could be taken in this area. What is absolutely new to me is that falling leaves lay a layer on the tracks which apparently allows the wheels to slip. Infrabel must include this aspect in its safety plans so that this can be avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u116	Minister, thank you for your answers. In a future debate, we will certainly come back to the braking system and the investments for the transition to ETCS. However, it is worrying to see that, despite the efforts of major investments, nature is involved and that, as you have explained in detail, a film is being produced. I am pleased to learn that there is a plan of areas at risk where dead leaves turn into films with the use of a Kärcher train, a service train. I therefore hope that this will not happen again in the coming weeks. We will come back to that in a further debate in greater detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u117	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive reply. It is worrying that despite the heavy investment and the presence of TBL1+ on both vehicles and infrastructure, such accidents can happen. It may be exceptional, but every year is autumn and every year the leaves fall off the trees. I do not recall that similar incidents have occurred in the past, even when there was no TBL1+. Still, it's happening today. So it's disturbing. I therefore hope that the investigation will make it clear what caused it. Nor is it very clear to me why the trains involved were so close together. After all, if there was a great distance, it seems to me possible that they would come to a standstill in time. I assume that this will be the subject of further investigation and that it will not be possible to discuss the investigation in detail for the time being. Nevertheless, I think it is very important that we look closely at the results of the investigation at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-05-54-commissie-ic013x.u118	I thank all colleagues for their respect of the Rules of Procedure. Minister, about 20 questions have been postponed. We will see if we can integrate them into next week's meeting in the afternoon. We will empty the agenda before addressing the guidance note and the policy note at the meeting on 25 November, the last day planned for this.
