ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State Fonck has informed me that there is no prior exposé, and that she will answer the questions immediately. We can therefore go straight to the questions. I'll write down who's asking for the floor later. I already have two speakers, Mr Wollants and Mr Calvo. The rest will follow in the usual order.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u2	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I find it a little strange that we should go straight to the questions, as we have heard a lot of things and many contradictions over the last few weeks, which have not happened today. However, if you would like to keep your statement at the end, that is good for me too. A first point concerns interconnection capacity. We have heard several players about the possibilities to increase that capacity. The CREG does question that. Is it your intention to take further measures to increase this capacity, or do you agree with the CREG's view, in particular that there are very few possibilities? How do you see that? This can have an impact on what will happen this winter. A second point concerns the emergency generators. During the session with Elia, the question was asked whether such generators could contribute to increased security of supply by using them at an early stage, so that the grid would last longer. The federal government also has a number of emergency generators. We know that the problems of Objective 3 and Tihange 2 are not new. I would like to hear from you whether you have taken steps to enable those emergency generators to be part of the solution and ensure that the light stays on. Or will these generators stop when families and businesses are switched off? I would like to hear from you what steps you have taken. After all, I think it is important that we all make efforts. A third point concerns what has been published in the press this week in connection with the awareness campaign. We have heard Minister Furlan say that there is a plan, together with the Regions, to sensitise people in the context of energy. He also said, however, that there is no money for this. It would be about 3.5 million euros that the federal government doesn't want to put on the table. At the same time, we hear in the corridors that there would be another campaign to compare darf, which might cost some money. The question then is what is the most important priority for you. It seems to me, in these particularly difficult circumstances, that we should give priority to the awareness campaign to ensure that the net is maintained and that we can save our families and businesses from being cut off. We have heard everyone say that they want to be part of a solution, that they want to sit down at the table and that they want to reach out to each other and to you. It is not entirely clear to me what has happened to that offer in the meantime. We have the outstretched hand of virtually everyone, but have you also gone into that? In the meantime, have you had discussions with all these actors on how they can be part of the solution? This is an urgent time if we are to avoid this kind of cut-off. If we find that we are not even planning the necessary consultations, that would be a pity. I assume that you have taken the necessary steps, but I would like to hear some details about this. About the shutdown plan itself, Elia said that normally disk 6 starts and then switches to the other drives. At the same time, it has also been said that the government can take other decisions on this matter. Can you tell us how the government is looking at that? What order is she in? Is it true that disk 6 is switched off first and on a next break disk 5? Or do they start back at disk 6? It seems important to me to know how to deal with it and what people should expect, especially in disc 6. We know that the shutdown plan also has limits. Economic activity has not necessarily been taken into account, with industrial consumers. I am thinking, among other things, of the port of Ghent. At the same time, it is about decentralised production that is in the zone, although there is no clear view of where that is exactly and what the immediate effect is. It would be good to know how we can keep certain capacity in the net for as long as possible, without almost stomping them off in one of those six disks. Can you tell me if on that basis you are prepared to refine the exit plan further and to go into it further so that we can achieve better results there? We have heard very clearly that FEBEG mentions the economic framework conditions that make it difficult to invest in us, which make it difficult to keep the plants open in the longer term. I'm sure this isn't new. I've been hearing this complaint for many years. How has the government dealt with this so far? What breakthroughs are there in that respect? They continue to complain that it is very difficult to invest here. It's hard to believe that nothing happened to that complaint. How have you managed the investment framework so far?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u3	Mr President, I am pleased to see the Secretary of State. A great deal of information has been provided to us in the last few weeks. We have heard many interlocutors in this committee. Madam Secretary of State, I would like you to take stock of the current situation. This time, the mayors received information from the governors. I am a mayor myself and attended the information session for the province of Hainaut on Monday. It was a very comprehensive briefing during which we received a lot of information. We now know what is to be done in case of discharge. Practically, what about it? We're talking about an information campaign that would be run by the federal government. Could you give us more information about this campaign? What's the timing? What will it consist of? I think it is very important to know where we are going in this area. It is now necessary to act in consultation with the local authorities. The mayors still have some questions. In the event of discharge in a commune, we know that we will be notified seven days in advance and that we will be obliged to inform the population. Some mayors wonder if they can wait for financial or other support to lead this information. For example, if this happens in my community, I think I'll throw at least one box. It's going to cost a lot of money. Can we hope for logistical or financial assistance from the federal government to carry out this information obligation? Today, I think we have reached the practical organizational stage. All interlocutors – and we have seen that there are many in this file – need to communicate as much as possible to address any electricity shortage problems this winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u4	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, this morning's exchange of views concludes the hearings on security of supply and the clearance plan. After three weeks of meetings, the Secretary of State will be able to explain the problems that remain. First of all, I cannot help but think that the disastrous scenario of an activation of the relief plan, the last safety net before the blackout, is unworthy of a developed country like ours and represents a bad signal to potential investors. Long before these hearings and the outbreak of controversy, my colleague David Clarinval – whom I apologize for today – was the first to throw the floor in the pond by expressing his concern about our energy security. This famous relief plan has initiated many polemics. Rest assured, I will remember only two of them: on the one hand, your lack of clarity as to its alleged irregularity and, on the other hand, the lack of information and coordination vis-à-vis the actors concerned and the local authorities. Madam Secretary of State, you promised us a lot of difficulties with a change in the discharge plan, which would lead to "boxon", in your own words. It must be admitted that, on this point, you have kept your promise. This relief plan was criticized by a university professor who raised the question of "an imbalance between Flanders and Wallonia". This problem had been denounced by the MR, but as regards its technical aspect and not its Community aspect. The hearings have confirmed that it is from this point of view that we must consider Elia's misinterpretation of the ministerial decree. Much more than a communitisation of the case, it is the incorrect implementation of the ministerial decree that we have denounced and we are pleased to see various changes aiming at a balance between the various areas of relief. However, we cannot but deplore the uncertainty you have shown regarding the change in this plan and the ensuing panic, which has been resumed by the people. In this regard, I would like to learn on the basis of which elements you confirmed on 10 September that a change in the discharge plan was impossible to achieve within a very short period of time when the system operator managed to do so. In addition, during the hearings, one element has returned systematically: the lack of coordination between the protagonists involved in the implementation of this relief plan. Madam Secretary of State, as some speakers have confirmed, do you feel that this is your task? Can you explain to us the steps you have taken to inform all the protagonists about the subject? In the field, many local mayors and agents are astonished by the lack of information available to them. A fellow mayor told me that a meeting had already been held in the province of Hainaut; for our province of Liège, it will only be held on 13 October. It is true that such a situation gives rise to some panic among the population. In our capacity as mayor, we must ensure security and, at some point, inform the public properly. We've already done it. If panic is not yet present, it is nevertheless important to keep the population informed. So would you like to tell me what steps you are planning to take to properly inform the local authorities? The provinces have a role to play as well as the federal and the responsibility of a mayor is important. The question of compensation has also been raised on numerous occasions. Only the CREG has given us a concrete answer. As the competent minister, what is your opinion on the proposal to set up a working group in cooperation with Parliament? We can agree, but I would like to hear from you about how this working group will begin its work. Finally, a reopening of Doel 4 would increase our country's energy production. You said – which was vaguely confirmed by Electrabel – that it was possible before the end of the year. Have you obtained any specific guarantees regarding this reopening? The issue of the relief plan is part of a broader issue than security of supply, a subject which of course has been of concern to our group for a very long time. Indeed, given the problems encountered by some of our power plants and the weak alternatives that exist to compensate for this loss of production, our country faces a real shortage of electricity. Admittedly, the outgoing federal government has taken relevant steps to address this problem in a pragmatic manner, while some regions have shown boundless dogmatism in the development of their energy policy. I couldn't not point that out. However, it must be noted that this is insufficient, as the strategic reserve will not be able to cope with this shortage. In the light of this observation, what measures do you think would be envisaged in order to avoid the use of reservations? Do you think that a re-evaluation of the strategic reserve should be considered in order to avoid any problems in the future? In order to avoid this chaotic scenario, the MR believes that our country needs a more stable structural energy supply, made up of different energy sources. In order to achieve this, we strongly hope that the next government will put in place, without ideological limits, but in a pragmatic way, an investment framework that can guarantee long-term supply in order to guarantee our energy security. You bear a heavy responsibility for the uncertainty of the lack of information and the coordination problems associated with this implementation of the relief plan. Rather than putting the blame on different actors, it would be better to take on your responsibilities and carry out this coordinating task properly. I would also like to speak on two points. With regard to preventive measures, how do you intend to implement them? Who will be charged with what and what timing? Another question comes back to me, as a field person. Who will participate in consultations with the professional sector – for example hospitals? Are they the mayors? I'd like to know a little more. Thank you for your attention and for the answers you will give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u5	Mr President, we have had a lot of hearings here last month with Elia, the FANC, FEBEG, Electrabel and the CREG. The aim was to obtain as much clarity as possible about the switch-off plan and the security of energy supply for the coming winter and subsequent winters. After all these hearings, there are still a lot of questions. The first is the question of liability in the event of a switch-off. In previous committees, different answers were always followed by questions from different speakers. The Secretary of State referred to the contract signed by every Belgian citizen with an electricity supplier. During the hearing with FEBEG on 23 September, it was found that the suppliers could not be held solely responsible because they must also be subject to the closure decision. The CREG pointed to the existence of force majeure clauses in the contracts. In short, there is great uncertainty about liability; it is a legal blur. The lack of clarity and differences of opinion do not send a message to people and businesses suffering economic damage. I would therefore like to have more clarity on this. The question is who is responsible in the event of damage and whether insurance can be taken out to compensate for the economic damage. Madam Secretary of State, has the Minister of Economy, the Minister for Insurance, been consulted on possible options to ensure that this is done and what are the criteria for doing so? Is there, in your view, any chance that the State will be held liable for the damage caused by a shutdown plan? What are the odds of that? Have you taken any precautions against this? Or do you have a different view on this and can you clearly tell who will ultimately be liable for a cut-off? Secondly, I want to talk about the shutdown plan itself. During the hearing on September 18th, Elijah explained more about the exit plan. This showed that it is the Minister of Energy and the Minister of Economy who decide on a switch-off. It was clearly reported that in the event of scarcity in the coming winter, the sequence of the discs of shutdown was determined from six to one. A normal shutdown takes place from one to six. We can understand the reversal of the order. In this way, the same municipalities are not always eliminated first and some solidarity is applied. However, there is a big but. Account must also be taken of the economic damage caused by such a closure. I can imagine that, in determining the order of a sudden phenomenon, zone 1 has less economic damage than zone 6. Now the order is just reversed. My question is therefore whether the economic damage has been taken into account, or whether it has simply been decided not to always victimize the same municipalities and turn the tables. However, economic damage is an important parameter in determining who is switched off or not. For example, the port of Ghent is now located in zone 6. That wasn't a conscious choice, I suppose. In the event of a sudden event, the port will now be switched off first. Has the economic damage been charged? It was also said that the order is determined by the Energy and Economic Ministers. That's what the ministerial decision says. Has there been any consultation with the Minister of Economy in determining the order of termination, or has the determination of the order taken solely on the basis of your proposal taken in consultation with Elijah? There would also have been consultations with the governors. Was they also informed of the reasoning behind this? Do they have any control over this? A governor undoubtedly knows where most companies are based in his province. Has there been sufficient attention paid to this in the decision to reverse the order? The order is now communicated: from zone 6 to zone 1. Mr Wollants has already asked whether anything can be changed. Can we still decide, for example, that zone 5 or zone 1 is to be switched off first? Who will ultimately make that decision? Is that the Minister responsible for Energy, in consultation with Elijah or with the Minister of Economy? How will this happen in concrete terms and what can change about it? As far as the phasing-out is concerned, we have also received a great deal of questions from people with their own decentralised production. It's actually a bit weird: they take care of their energy, but when they switch off, they are also victims of the shutdown. How will this happen in concrete terms? What exactly are they supposed to do? Will they be switched off anyway or can they still provide an alternative with an emergency generator themselves? A lot of questions also came from the municipalities. What about the hospitals? It is all too easy to say that there is no problem in this respect, because hospitals all have emergency generators. However, calls with hospitals show that the emergency generators sometimes only operate the operating rooms and the intensive care department. However, a lot of energy is needed in other departments as well. The patients there also need electricity. I would therefore ask you to clarify what the obligations of a hospital are. What should they be able to provide for? Thirdly, we must, of course, work together to prevent the greatest possible disruption. There are several measures. First of all, there's the emergency plan. This emergency plan works with different zones and we believe that it is necessary to ensure that the various municipalities show solidarity with each other. It is not because one is situated in a zone 1, where probably will not be switched off if one applies the order from zone 6 to zone 1, that one simply should not take this into account and that one should not even sensitize. I'll draw it on bottles. It is a bit strange when in one municipality street lights and Christmas lights are turned off, while at the same time an ice piste runs full in a neighbouring municipality. That would be a little ridiculous. Each municipality must contribute to reducing energy consumption. My question is therefore very specific as to whether there will be directives that each municipality must respect so that everyone contributes in the same way to lower energy consumption. Will you simply give guidelines or can there possibly be a ban on certain things? How far do you want to go to encourage the population to use less energy? Sensitising would, of course, be an important measure. You first announced that less use of street lighting and less use of energy in public buildings through sensitisation could mean a reduction of 1 000 MW. That figure was also submitted to Elijah. Its spokesmen could not say clearly what that is based on. Could you please clarify what measures you will take to achieve the 1 000 MW? Is that number still in force? Today, we read in the newspaper that this would have been reduced to 350 MW. What's with the different numbers? I would like to see the measures included in this report. According to the Walloon Energy Minister, the awareness campaign would cost EUR 3.5 million. Of course, that's a lot of money. Is that money also registered, because it has to be spent in the very short term? Does that really cost that much? What measures are contained in all this? Finally, when will the emergency plan be announced? We look forward to hearing about this as soon as possible. In order to avoid shutdown, FEBEG also calls for more coordination and cooperation. Of course, we can all endorse that call. If we don't put our hands together, it's definitely not gonna work. Every partner has to do his part. It is, of course, up to the Secretary of State to take more initiative in this matter. It was announced that several working groups would be set up. Can you give an update on the various working groups? Who's taking part in this? There would also be consultations with several partners, including FEBEG but also the agricultural and horticultural sector. Has this meeting taken place in the meantime? What are the conclusions of this consultation? I have two points to make: the strategic reserve and the import capacity. The plants of Seraing and Vilvoorde would be activated this winter. Last week I asked the CREG if they had already delivered an opinion. They were able to tell me that they were not yet allowed to make the content of this opinion public. According to a press release by Belga, the Vilvoorde plant would apply unreasonable prices. A KB is therefore in the process of imposing equal financial conditions. Will that strategic reserve be available for use on 1 November 2014? Is the Vilvoorde plant obliged to comply with the conditions laid down in the Royal Decree or can they still decide to leave the strategic reserve? Are both plants definitively in the strategic reserve for the next three years or can they still be added to it? Can both power stations exit the strategic reserve over the next two to three years? Finally, the dispute over the import capacity of 3 500 megawatts. That capacity was always accepted as a limit. At the request of the CREG and the FEBEG it appeared that there is still some margin on that capacity. We have received a very technical explanation. I believe that the experts know best what is or is not possible. However, should this not be further investigated, as this capacity is an important link in our security of supply for the coming winter? Have you already taken initiatives in this area so that it becomes clear who is right? Is there any margin in this respect? If so, which one? I would like some clarification on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u6	Mr President, Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is an important meeting because, after weeks of hearings and discussions, we owe it to ourselves, in addition to a number of questions to the Secretary of State, to draw some political conclusions. If not, this exercise will turn out to be no more than a sympathetic, interesting talk barracks without real political conclusions. I would like to divide the questions I have for the Secretary of State into three parts. Firstly, what have we learned from all the hearings? There is a serious conflict and a serious discussion between the CREG and Elijah on the issue of import capacity. It's a core mission of Elia to do a capacity calculation. The CREG states that since 2006 it has, therefore, been of the opinion that the method developed by Elia is not correct eight years ago. There is a great deal of discussion on this issue. In other words, the CREG called for clarity from Elijah. Why is the discussion in question not without interest? Assuming that we have to switch to a switch-off and that producers and suppliers who cannot supply electricity are fined in proportion to EUR 4 500 per megawatt, you can see from a long distance the discussions that will arise should they prove that there was still import capacity. Madam Secretary of State, the question that arises is whether you follow the CREG in what she has said, namely that Elijah's method is not efficient and that there should be a better method, in particular the intraday method, which must be calculated. For this, no investments are needed because of Elijah. All it takes is an intelligent way to calculate things better. In other words, are you prepared to follow the advice of the CREG and encourage Elia to put the intraday method in place before the coming winter so that we can increase import capacity? The market is talking about several hundred megawatts that could reach current capacity so that more reserve could be obtained and a cut-off could be avoided. Ladies and gentlemen, the second major conclusion from the hearings is that all parties have admitted that the completion plan is actually an outdated plan. It is a plan that dates back to 2005 and is based on the black-out plan of 2002. Meanwhile, the world has changed. Certainly the energy world has changed a lot. For example, the whole issue of decentralised production units is a problem which has recently emerged and which is not taken into account when drawing up the switch-off plan. Madam Secretary of State, I also know that it will not be your responsibility. It will be the responsibility of the next government to come forward with a serious and up-to-date exit plan for next year, namely for the winter of 2015-2016. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to try to draw up a resolution on majority and opposition as a conclusion to the current important sessions. What is the majority and opposition today? In order to encourage the various players to draw up an up-to-date exit plan which also takes account, in particular, of the needs of businesses, priority services and, in particular, of the Seveso companies. I'm about to get to what's about to happen in Ghent. Thus, Elia's shutdown directly on the high voltage grid is feasible, but with the DNBs, the distribution system operators, this seems to us to be much more necessary. Madam President, Mr President, the third part consists of the specific questions. I fully support what Mrs Cassart-Mailleux has said, particularly with regard to the need for a working group. Madam Secretary of State, the CREG is talking about a working group to examine these different contracts and to look at what needs to be done with them. Then there is Mr Dierick's question about FEBEG, about what FEBEG explicitly asked, namely more proactivity and involvement. Madam Secretary of State, FEBEG says she still hasn't heard from you or from the Minister in that regard. In this respect, more interaction is needed with the federation of producers and suppliers of electricity. Then I come to a few more specific questions. The first concerns the Gent issue, which has already been put on the table a few times. Madam Secretary of State, it is not so much about the city of Ghent, it is about, firstly, an important economic hub for the whole of the Flemish country and, secondly, about the six or seven Seveso companies that are located there. My contacts with various players show that they may be able to modulate the plan, the speed of the plan or the cut-off of the zones in such a way that the two stations located in the port area of Ghent are removed from the switch-off plan, but the task of politics is to do so. It means that it is up to you, the governors and the different distribution system operators to sit together, to look at that and to find a solution for Ghent, because Ghent also needs that solution. By the way, the governor and also the ships of the Haven have explicitly requested a meeting. I do not know if there has already been a meeting in the meantime, but we really think it is crucial that this happens. Madam Secretary of State, secondly, it is about consultation with regional ministers. At the hearing on 16 September, I referred you to the letter from the Flemish Minister for Energy. In the meantime, consultations took place on 23 September. Can you tell us anything more about that? You have been there, the ministers have been there, it is about cooperation in the country. Has that been the case, for example, with regard to the whole energy saving campaign? I read in De Tijd that you said something about this the day before yesterday at the VBO, namely that there will be a communication campaign in the middle of October in the schools and also in other places. However, you have said that there is no money for this, so I do not know how communication will go, perhaps via social media. I hope it'll be more than a tweet, though I'd like to retweet it, but I don't think this will do much good.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u7	Alea iacta est, there's a shutdown plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u8	If we put all our followers together, we might get a hundred thousand. You know, however, that not everyone is active on that social medium. Madam Secretary of State, what came out of that meeting, besides a lot of gas and energy? The next point I would like to discuss is the list of priority institutions. That list was promised, including to the governor of our dear province of West Flanders, by September 15th, but as far as I have heard, that list is still unknown. Today is October 1st and next weekend it's getting a little colder. Although we will not yet reach freezing temperatures, we know that we will cycle towards freezing temperatures in November. Madam Secretary of State, one final point is the single point of contact, the provision of information. In the hearing on 16 September, you said that you wanted to establish a single point of contact for businesses, consumers and also for federations of companies, such as Voka and Unizo, who insisted on it. Can you give me more information on that? Is there going to be a unique phone number? How will that be financed?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u9	Mr President, many things have already been said, and perhaps I am going against tradition by not repeating them all. Madam Secretary of State, I have a number of very specific questions. At our very first committee meeting in this Chamber, you announced, together with Minister Wathelet, that there would be one central point of contact for all questions of citizens, businesses and directors. To this end, a dossier for the Council of Ministers was being prepared. We would like to know what progress has been made on this dossier. Will that contact be announced soon? In the same context, you recently consulted the regional ministers and we would have liked to know exactly what agreements were being made. How are we going to proceed? What agreements have been reached on the responsibilities and who bears the responsibility for the exit plan? Is there also a switch-on plan? I mean, here's what I'm talking about. There are emergency generators on the distribution network. Can they be switched on? According to information we received from Elijah, there is still a capacity of 800 to 1,000 megawatts, depending on the source. I refer to Great Britain, where in the switch-off plan the switching on of emergency generators is the first on the list, whereas in our case it is at the bottom of the list. The logic of this escapes me, and I wonder what you are doing against it. I have a third specific question on Ghent and the port of Ghent, which is in line with the remarks made by Mr Van Quickenborne on this subject, but I have a moral obligation to put that question in concrete terms with regard to my group leader. What's the status there? The exit plan contained a number of inconsistencies relating to the port. By the way, the city and the port have sent you a letter on this matter. Have you answered it yet? If so, what did that answer mean? Fourthly, I would like to return to an item that has been quoted, especially the order of the disks to be switched off, from 1 to 6 or vice versa. Elia made it clear here on 18 September that it is the Minister who decides on the order. So I would very much like to know what criteria the Minister uses to decide. Fifth and finally, I would like to say that the exit plan that Elijah is now using, although it is now refined, dates back to 2005. Even though this is going to be a matter for the next government, I would like to hear from you how you feel about imposing a rolling exit plan on Elijah, which obliges Elijah to change the exit plan every year or every two years. I'd like your opinion on that, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u10	Mr President, I will try to be brief. I hope to be able to take the answers from the Secretary of State, but I will be expected to attend the Conference of Presidents shortly. Madam Secretary of State, I am surprised that you did not start with an explanation, which would have been appropriate in this case. I would always advise that, especially in the current situation. The hearings over the last few weeks, for which our group has been a very asking party, and the questions that have been reviewed so far, have clearly demonstrated a great deal of goodwill on the part of all the actors, but have also raised many additional questions. A lot of questions have not yet been answered. In that sense, I had hoped that you would be able to answer a number of questions today. I think that situation is unsustainable. The fact that there are still so many questions about crucial elements at the moment is not a good thing. I do not want to say that you have to solve all this personally, but there was and is a coordinating role for you. In fact, during the hearings that have taken place, I found that many actors have given you that role, and I am very concerned about that. It's not just an appeal to the Secretary of State, it's an appeal to ourselves. I share Mr Van Quickenborne's call for a parliamentary follow-up. We have done good parliamentary work in the various hearings. However, a number of conclusions must also be drawn. I shall try to give our group a number of suggestions which Mr Nollet will immediately supplement. Is there a new version of the plan now? There was a lack of clarity about its legal perseverance. You have asked your services for legal advice. Is that there yet? Does that give rise to a new version of the plan? Quid with listing the priority customers? Is that still to be done and if so, when will that happen? In the meantime, will the imbalances identified by different partners and Members of Parliament be eliminated or will they be eliminated? I must also refer to Ghent. The mayor and the entire College of Ghent have directed you to eliminate the imbalance in Ghent. Well, until yesterday there was no reply to that. I deeply regret that. Ghent is an important city and people want a constructive round the table because there are questions, but you have not yet replied to the writing of mayor and ships. How the hell did that happen at this stage? Secondly, what is the state of affairs in the field of sensitization? All the partners who have passed the review have all indicated that they are in favour of sensitisation and that they want to take the necessary initiatives in this respect. However, these forces will have to be combined. We therefore propose to set up a non-disabled task force. The initiatives need to be brought together on a single table, because if everyone takes initiatives on their own island, we will lack the necessary potential and run the risk that all this will not be enough. Thirdly, what is your current position on compensation, Madam Secretary of State? You may have heard the different views of the different players during the hearings. Our group is one asking party from day one. Of course, it is our priority not to switch off, but if it comes to a closure, citizens and businesses will have to be compensated for in this respect. The CREG has put out a hand. In the study published this weekend, there is also a piste to make compensation possible and the CREG wants to develop this further legally. Parliament, and certainly you, in your capacity as Secretary of State, must accept this hand. Fourthly, there seems to be a debate on Vilvoorde and the strategic reserve. Will Vilvoorde remain in the strategic reserve for the coming winter? This is an important question because our strategic reserve is already insufficient today. If Vilvoorde falls away, we really have a problem. I'd like an update on the subject. Fifth, the information. Our group has already proposed opening a single point of contact, i.e. a telephone line for local drivers and direct stakeholders in the first instance, but also for citizens and businesses in the second place. This seems to us to be a fairly obvious initiative. Are you willing to do that? What's the status? We have other proposals on this subject, but Mr Nollet will come back to this. I'll come to my conclusion. There are still a lot of questions at the moment and we cannot afford to do so in this situation. I therefore hope that you will be able to answer these questions as much as possible and that you will also want to work on such a task force. Please do not transfer this to the next government. There must now be one discussion table which can bring together the good will of the last few weeks and then be translated into concrete initiatives. As far as parliamentary work is concerned, I am in favour of a resolution, Mr Van Quickenborne. We would like to endorse this, but we do not think that we can confine ourselves to questions about the exit plan. We believe that the whole question of compensation should also be part of that resolution. I see you nodding in agreement. I think this is positive. If compensation can be part of that resolution, we are happy to expect an invitation to begin writing such a resolution. Not only the Secretary of State, but also Parliament must show the necessary decisiveness in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u11	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Secretary of State for being with us this morning on the occasion of the conclusion of many days of hearings. I would also like to thank her for taking up this issue under difficult circumstances and, contrary to what some have said, for ensuring, as far as possible, the coordination of all actors. Having said that, I am very surprised that the MR, who threw the baby away with bath water, forgot that he was part of the government in place, that he had voted for a whole series of measures, particularly with regard to the strategic reserve, and that the policy currently being pursued by Mrs. Fonck and earlier by Mr. Wathelet is part of a policy agreed upon. If this policy did not suit the MR, it could very simply have asked for a Kern meeting and made proposals to the government. We must be able, at some point, to assume our responsibilities. I have heard other partners in the current majority ask questions about information. I heard Mr. Van Quickenborne is moving on a whole series of tracks. It should not be a question of making this issue a "beastful" political question. Together, we must be able to propose measures to ensure better functioning in the future. As I have said on several occasions, as early as 2012, Mr.Wathelet asked Elia to ask him whether there should be any adaptation of the relief plan. I note today – others have seen it before me – that of all the investments it had to make, Elia seems somewhat in default in terms of interconnection. In addition, a proposal to amend the plan could have been made a little earlier. It is likely that the clearance plan is, to date, obsolete. I draw attention here to the fact that no one has considered this plan since 2005. The first response to this issue took place in 2012 during Mr. Wathelet's intervention. As for the actors informed, concerned, etc., it is sometimes difficult to imagine coordination, while the FEBEG itself says "subir ce plan de délatage". I recall that it was mentioned on the slides seen last week. To subdue this relief plan almost amounts to saying: "We have nothing to do with it and, if the relief plan is activated, we will have to undergo it like all consumers, the whole society." I believe that all actors must also play their part. As such, last week, FEBEG would have done well to assume the part of its role in this relief plan. The proposal made by CREG concerning compensation, together with a working group which regularly involves Parliament, seems to me to be good. We all know the legal difficulty of a possible cascade liability. From these hearings, we can at any rate withdraw that this is an important point. On several occasions, our Dutch-speaking colleagues and we have spoken on the port of Ghent and on why the port of Ghent is being removed. I think I remember, and I would have liked the Secretary of State to confirm this, that any desired change in the discharge plan must pass through the governor who must contact Elia who, in turn, makes a proposal to the Secretary of State which approves or does not approve an amendment with regard to Ghent, for example. It would be good to re-explain the procedure. I do not think that the modifications to the release plan should be addressed to you directly. They have to pass through someone else. It is important for our colleagues in Ghent, if an amendment is requested from the College of Ghent. It would be interesting if you could recall how the changes have to pass through in order to be effective. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State and all the actors who have been involved in this committee since the beginning of September and who have made it clear to us about a number of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u12	Mr President, in this committee, I have been criticized for making ideology. I take it as a compliment! We throw ourselves into political rules of account when we ask legitimate questions about a plan of relief that is cruelly lacking clarity. I can understand this, but I do not think it is unjustified to ask more fundamental questions in terms of social and democratic issues. We heard from Electrabel officials, including Wim De Clercq, whom I had quoted in one of my interventions before he returned to this committee. He said two years ago that Electrabel would not invest without sharing the political orientations expressed and in view of the need for profitability. Electrabel would no longer invest in gas-fired power plants to favour nuclear power, which earns as much money as possible. When we met him, he continued his momentum. We have heard the FEBEG complaining essentially that it has too little profitability. As Ms Matz recalled, FEBEG said that she was suffering from the relief plan after saying that she was not investing because the profitability was too low. It is important to realize that if we are to address the energy shortage in our country this winter and the following winters – because nothing has been done for the following winters – we must do something other than unloading plans or insignificant strategic reserves or public awareness. That will not be enough. We must fundamentally question the functioning of our energy supply and the role of the market, which somewhere imposes its profit standards on policy. In addition to the real risk of repeated electricity shortages, there is still the democratic issue of who decides in this country. Is it politics, who is elected, or are it private firms that have their profitability imperatives? The question deserves to be asked. The PTB proposal in relation to this is that the policy should establish an energy plan that determines the amount of electricity needed and the desired proportions of the different energies. If possible, for the PTB, no nuclear; but I understand that it is still the coalition option that is in place. So much gas, so much wind, etc. From then on, a call for tenders is launched for producers who want to join this plan. If producers do not want to be part of the plan, we must dare to ask the question of the nationalization of the energy sector. To return to the issue of discharge, I repeat that the rules followed are not very clear. I hear a number of colleagues say that industrial sectors are to be given priority. I think that we should take a serious look at the issue and not start from the assumption that it is necessarily the industrial sector, the large companies connected directly to Elia or the more industrial and less urbanised neighbourhoods that must be spared the burden. Risks to the population, especially if socially vulnerable people do not have electricity, can cause significant and more serious damage than mere economic damage. We still have to ask that question. In particular, large producers that are directly supplied with electricity. Finally, there is the question of damage. Several colleagues have considered it or at least mentioned it. We're always in the dark. Who will be liable in case of damage if we have to resort to unloading? I ask the question that seems self-evident to me. I'm surprised we didn't consider it here. Is it not necessary to legislate to mark this issue of responsibilities? From the moment there is a clear law that would stipulate that in the event of discharge, suppliers that have not fulfilled their obligations are liable, that it is up to them to contribute to a fund that would be used to compensate people who have suffered damage, the legal uncertainties that remain so far would be removed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u13	Mr President, for the first time in my experience, I was delighted to participate in the work of this committee. All those involved in this issue were able to speak. They were asked all the questions. Personally, I may have some regrets that I did not necessarily receive answers to all my questions. That is why, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a few specific questions. Firstly, I would like to know who is responsible in Belgium for making agreements with foreign countries for supplies that would make up for production shortages? We know that France cannot supply us - that is what Elia and CREG have told us - and we also know that we have no information on Germany and that, according to CREG, it is more complex in the Netherlands. Secondly, with regard to nuclear power, I would have wanted to know when we would have the results of Doel 3 and Tihange 2. We have been testing for the last two years with a certain ardentness, which seems to me to respond to a dogmatic will. On the other hand, the samples are not similar to the vats alloy; the samples used do not even have an inox layer while the vats in our plants are equipped with them. In case of a positive result, do you have an idea of the actual date of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 restart? Thirdly, as far as Doel 1 is concerned, it is known that production is due to cease in February 2015. Knowing that the shutdown process must be gradual, I would like to know whether it will start to end in February 2015 or will we go in maximum production (433 MW) until February 2015 and then start a shutdown process from that date? Fourthly, can you tell me whether the strategic reserve is operational immediately or whether there is a need for some development work to enable these plants to be connected to the network? As far as the Coo-Trois-Ponts power station is concerned, is it part of the strategic reserve? It co-produced 1,250 megawatts. Are we aware that the water that has been discharged for five hours to supply electricity also takes five hours to be raised, which means a considerable amount of energy? Fifthly, in view of the responsibilities relating to the cases of deaths that might occur in the event of discharge, one aspect was not noted: that of alarms. Some of them have own systems of autonomy and others do not. What about it? Have we thought about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I would like to clarify certain points. Last week, CREG proposed the establishment of a working group to analyse the contracts and legal responsibilities of the various suppliers. Very clearly, we replied in the affirmative and sent him an official letter. On the other hand, I heard a suggestion from Messrs. Calvo and Van Quickenborne to draw political conclusions from the work done in committee. What I am proposing on behalf of the committee is that each group send suggestions, ignoring political divisions. These suggestions will be shared and discussed in a small working group. You can think about it while the Secretary of State answers your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u15	Madam President, from the moment the Secretary of State did not consider it useful and necessary to deliver us...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u16	We're not going to start the debate again!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u17	Let me express myself! From the moment the Secretary of State did not want to give us an introductory statement, I think it is more effective for everyone to be able to ask questions in the first round. And I have a whole series! I am surprised that there is no initial intervention: no note has been filed and there is no second version of the plan. I don't understand very well! But I have a lot of questions to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u18	We're at the end of our day-to-day business regime, but despite that, I'm here today and I came here a few weeks ago. If I had made an introductory presentation today, I bet those who are now blushing because I have not done so, would have made the same criticism by saying that it is a scandal, that they have questions to ask and that I should first listen to them!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u19	We had six committee meetings. Interesting work has been done and things have progressed thanks to the hearings. But everyone is waiting today for you to table the new plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u20	Mr Nollet, you will ask your questions in a second round, the Secretary of State is present. All the groups asked their questions. Many of you will leave at 11.30 a.m. because there is a Conference of Presidents. I therefore propose that you hear the answers of the Secretary of State and we will then arrange a second round of questions. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u21	It's not effective!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u22	Mr Nollet, this work in committee has shown its effectiveness! So we continue to work in this way. We got a lot of answers at the hearings we organized. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, who will soon give way to the future Minister of Energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u23	Madam President, Mr President, let us get out of this somewhat sterile debate and get to the bottom of it. With regard to the clearance plan that is the subject of many questions, I have received from Elia the list of posts A and B in the south-east and south-west areas. This list includes high voltage posts; it must be translated. That is why I transmit it to the Crisis Centre, the SPF Economy and Synergrid for the purpose of adapting maps and lists. If you remember the first map, these are the cabin lists; they are the responsibility not of Elias but of the GRDs and the Regions. This translation of high voltage stations into lists and maps will take a few days. This new map and list will cover only the south-east and south-west areas, with no changes to other areas. I would also like to repeat that this will not change anything with regard to the municipalities: the municipalities in the waste disposal area will remain there. All municipalities must therefore continue their preparation. I have received the legal opinion of the SPF Economy; I will inform you immediately. At the same time, I asked for a further legal study, in particular on the articulations between the various procedures. This analysis is very clear on some points that I will develop immediately. First, the legal opinion clearly states that two different procedures must be used in the release plan, depending on the circumstances, inducing two different decision-making processes, as set out in the annex to the Ministerial Order Establishing the Release Plan. How are they different? First, the decision-making aspect: who decides? In the event of a procedure against sudden phenomena, as set out in Article 2 of the Annex, it is Elia. The action is taken by the system operator, who then informs the Minister. The other procedure, applicable in the event of a shortage, is described in Article 3. Who then decides to remove? It is the ministers, the Minister of Energy and the Minister of Economy who jointly decide on the measures to be taken. They must, as written in the Order, justify and justify their decision, which is why a ministerial order will have to be issued in the event of a shortage. The decision-making process is different in both procedures. In case of an incident, it is immediately that Elia releases, since the objective is then to protect the entire network, in a totally automatic way. This is done in the context of Article 2. The decision-making process is different under section 3. Since there is a shortage, it is the ministers who decide. But long before that, there are preliminary steps: to reduce consumption among different customers or to ban the use of electricity for certain purposes. This is clearly the context of the Ministerial Order in the Annex. In addition to these two different procedures in the release plan, Articles 4 and 5 apply for both procedures in the same way. The legal opinion of the SPF Economy is very clear on this; this is the first important lesson to be learned. The second important lesson in this legal opinion concerns the 5% criterion. Is this criterion regulatory? The answer is clearly yes. The legal opinion of the SPF Economy says that it does not tolerate any interpretation, at most the 5% are not absolute since they are tempered by the presence of the adjective "practically/nagennoeg" in article 4.2 of the annex. A third important lesson concerns split. As you know, Elia offered me to split the south-east and south-west sections with the communes A and B. The SPF Economy tells me that the proposed new subdivision is not prohibited on the basis of the annex to the Ministerial Order, of course, as long as these subdivisions have no effect on the scrupulous compliance with the aforementioned provisions of the Ministerial Order. This must therefore necessarily be in line with the other criteria, but also with the rule of almost 5 per cent. I have requested a supplementary opinion from the Legal Service of the SPF Economy, in particular on the link between the two procedures, automatic and manual. On these three points, which seem to me to be the most important, have there been two different procedures? The answer is, of course, yes. It's not from today. We worked exactly that way. There are two different levels of decision-making as well as two different decision-making processes, depending on whether one is in the automatic procedure or in a discharge following a shortage situation. As far as the 5% criterion is concerned, as you know, I asked Elia for a precise report, in particular on the basis of what Professor Ernst had pointed out. Elia gave me precise figures in relation to the effort to be made at the level of each area. As a result, I did say that we could not continue with such important differentials. Elia thus made a proposal to me that all efforts should be consistent with the ministerial decree on "practically 5%". I will not go back because I have already explained this to you at a previous meeting. The correction is made and complies with the ministerial decree on the basis of the opinion of the Legal Service of the SPF Economy. Thirdly, with regard to split, the SPF Economy makes it clear to me that this is quite possible. For this winter, I will send the famous list to the Crisis Centre, the SPF Economy and Synergrid so that we can adapt the plan completely. For the following winters, it will be good to conduct an evaluation of the release plan early in the spring. If the manual release plan, i.e. in case of shortage, has been activated, it will be important to ask Elia to carry out an ex post evaluation on the famous 5% effort, to see how the different areas had to contribute to the effort. From then on, we will be able to examine whether to change the release plan for the following winters. Some of you have said that the economic sector must be completely isolated and protected. Others said that citizens should be given priority at peaks between 5:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. When we talk about the 800 high voltage stations in Belgium, we cannot make a fine analysis for each neighbourhood. This is a regional competence. As a result of this assessment, it will be necessary to consider whether to modify this release plan. The second aspect is that it will be necessary to consider whether there is a need to change the regulations in this area, particularly the Ministerial Order. That question would also have to be asked. Minister Verwilghen's Ministerial Order was issued in 2005. Everyone knew that there was a release plan based on high voltage stations, but this year, for the first time, we are in a position to have a significant degree of precision because we asked Elia and regional DSOs to provide us with information on almost 100,000 cabins. On the basis of this, it will be necessary to see whether this ministerial decree should be evaluated. It is a work which is not done in 24 hours and which, I believe, will have to be based on an ex post analysis if the discharge plan is to be used this year. I have just taken stock of the release plan; I will complete some aspects in a moment. However, the issue of the anti-deletion plan should not be overlooked. There are several components for this winter as well as for the rest. As far as the following winters are concerned, I have already spoken. Whether it is Melchior Wathelet or myself, we have already noted the various measures taken in this area. I'm not going to redevelop everything today. I'm going to take measures for this winter. First, imports are needed. Is there a maximum of imports? I'll ask the question differently. Should we continue to do everything possible to increase imports? The answer is clearly yes. Is it possible to force Elia to increase its import capacity by 1000 MW? Yes! The decision was confirmed by the Kern for those who would have forgotten it. This is a capacity. I would remind you, however, that this is a liberalised market. We therefore depend on a series of factors, including cost. It is not Elia who manages all this – I also remind you –; it is the suppliers. It also depends on the situations of neighbouring countries. If we have 15 days at -20°, it will be more complicated with France. On the other hand, with the Netherlands, we will remain able to import a significant amount of electricity. I did hear what the CREG said here. I would like to respond to that. If CREG or others believe that it is possible to have a greater import capacity for this winter, we must do everything to get it! This is also the message I send to Elia. In this area, it is today at the CREG – it is its role and it fulfils it very well – to lead Elia in order to get her to make the most of her efforts to achieve it. Any additional capacity is obviously to be taken. So let's go! The CREG is currently undertaking Elia on this point. I hope that we will be able to draw additional capabilities from it. Also in the context of the anti-deletion plan, I will now address the strategic reserve: 850 MW, a "interruptible customers" component and a "gas power" component. I recall that the Electricity Act, in its 2014 version, obliges any power plant to stop to participate in the tender of the strategic reserve. In practice, are there any plants this year that have been shut down and that could not be mobilised? The answer is no, since the strategic reserve mechanism put in place by the Electricity Act obliges these plants to enter the tender. We wanted to, and this winter we will have to use this tool for the first time. It is a market mechanism, so it is supposed to give a fair price. But at the same time – and fortunately! - the Electricity Act provides for a mechanism to protect the consumer by allowing a maximum price to be set. In fact, CREG may reject an offer that would be considered manifestly unreasonable. And that's what happened. At the level of interruptible customers, there is no problem. But we received two offers from this strategic reserve. One is from the Seraing power plant (EDF-Luminus) and the other is from the Vilvorde power plant (EON). The CREG gave me an opinion and, obviously, the offer made by the Vilvorde plant at EON is unreasonable in terms of price. And that is not acceptable! We cannot, because we are at risk of shortages, have a purely opportunistic position and, taking advantage of the context, impose an unreasonable price. What have I done? I took a royal order imposing the participation of the Vilvorde plant at the price proposed by CREG, i.e., let's be clear, at a price well below the offer made by EON and thus at a price based on the offer of EDF-Luminus. I think it's important. It is also a mechanism that allows us to mobilise these plants at a fair price. I think it is as logical and important as the head of the responsibility of the State, the government and the responsibilities that I assume as Secretary of State. Third action in the relief plan: the imbalance tariff. You know that it has been set at 100 times the market price: 4,500 euros per megawatt/hour. Clearly, it works, as producers and suppliers are becoming involved today. They have every interest in it, or it would cost them a lot. They are mobilizing to try to recover all the hundreds of extra megawatts possible and imaginable. It's their job. I can assure you that in relation to this, they are widely employed. The anti-deletion plan obviously includes, following the sabotage of Doel 4, the resumption of the Doel 4 power plant. I am in constant contact with the various actors. Electrabel is still on course to restart Doel 4 by the end of December 2014. Maybe before, we'll see about it. I remind you that the months of January and February are the most difficult and so we will have a much more comfortable situation if we have Doel 4 for the months of January and February. The anti-deletion plan at the emergency generator level. At the emergency generators level, every effort must be made to mobilize everything that can be mobilized. I have to admit, it's not always possible for everyone. Why? Because there are backup generators and many of them don't know how to inject into the network. Some are equipped to do this, while others are not connected. For each emergency generator, it is important to have an GRD agreement for each generator. It must be noted that in this area it is difficult to obtain the agreement of the DSOs (with regional competence) for various reasons, but I will not go into detail. No more than 48 hours ago, we were approached by REstore, who is an aggregator. He wrote to the regional ministers complaining about the refusal of the DSOs to be involved for technical reasons. REstore warned me and we will of course support his request, but more broadly that of the issue of all emergency generators, both to the regional ministers and to the DSOs. Finally, I come to the final part of the anti-deletion plan. The question was asked as to what measures could be taken to reduce consumption. A large potential of nearly 1 000 megawatts can be realised quickly. Economic and Energy Ministers will be able to take two ministerial decisions to reduce or ban consumption, both in the fields of consumers and buildings and lighting. These ministerial orders are being prepared at the level of the administrations. I'm not gonna take them today. These orders will be ready, but will not be published. Why? Because they will only be activated in the event of a shortage. Take the example of lighting in public, private, tertiary buildings, all advertising and promotional lighting. I am not going to take a ministerial order this day to force traders, etc. stop their advertising or promotional lighting. That would obviously make no sense. That will make sense in a situation of shortage. At J-7, the measures taken can be implemented. As the annex to the Ministerial Order provides, this is the issue of the stronger action component. In other words, interested parties will be warned that they will have to reduce their electricity consumption or even stop it. That said, there is another aspect that can and should be implemented today, namely the one on global awareness of more rational use of energy. In this regard, a communication campaign, in collaboration with the municipalities, aims to raise awareness not only among citizens but also among the working environment. This is a participatory campaign to try to obtain the greatest possible support from the interested parties. For this, we have based ourselves on models of foreign countries such as Japan, Australia, etc. The objective is to have an overall dynamic that can be expressed through small gestures, but small important gestures. The proposed communication campaign should be ready by October 15, but it could be on October 20 or 25. I draw your attention here to the fact that at that time I will no longer be in office. Still, the whole process has been put in place. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u24	That's not certain. But history will tell. It's all launched today. I have brought together all the partners potentially involved: the federal government, the various administrations, Elia, the other actors in the energy sector. I also clearly proposed to the Regions the idea of conducting a joint campaign - I personally met with the regional ministers last week. They are all agreed and seduced by this idea, which will deliver a coherent and efficient message. The principle is to conduct a substantive campaign. If we come to a situation at risk, a system will allow us to give an additional boost in addition to the possible ministerial orders that ministers will decide or not to take – it will be for my successors. This will make it possible to act much more proactively in situations at risk. We did not mention these famous 3.5 million mentioned in the press at all. These are obviously "till from the truck" information, reported by other ministers. You have to be imaginative. Budgets are not that simple. I could very well say here that it will be 3.5 million and that my successor will only have to manage. Not at all. Frankly, we played the responsibility. We've tried to take on as much as we can to the end. We have worked at the level of administrations, in conjunction also with Elia, and I hope also with other actors in the energy sector, to have innovative solutions to bring about accessible financing and to make use of each other in this area. It's important! Someone claimed that it would be difficult at the same time to carry out the "Osez compar" campaign. In my opinion, this campaign remains important: one of the issues will concern the price charged to the consumer. In fact, with the administration – particularly the SPF Economy – we have been thinking about the merits of launching these two campaigns this winter. After an in-depth review of the situation, the response was positive. These campaigns are not aimed at the same subject, but are nevertheless complementary. They are both important, both for individuals and for businesses, especially SMEs. Regarding the green number, as I announced, the process is underway. I repeat that in fact, a green number is activated; it is 080012033. In addition, websites are available to consumers to obtain information from the SPF Economy, Elia and even Synergrid, not to mention the GRDs at regional level. All these measures are active. With regard to collaborations, some are internal at the federal level. For example, the Minister of Economy remains a permanent guest and our collaboration with his administration is perfect. Then the partners are known. We also have collaborations with the Public Health FPS; I will come back to this for priority clients. About the Regions, a lot of noise is circulating. Already from the start of the emergence of the scarcity risk resulting from the closure of the nuclear power plants Objective 3 and Tihange 2 in 2012, the FPS Economy and Energy and the FPS Home Affairs systematically involved the Regions in the emergency planning of this risk, both at the political level and at the level of the administrations. I have the list of the various collective initiatives from the federal level to the regions, as well as the list of bilateral meetings between 2012 and now, and I can say here that this list is long. It is difficult to have more links and contacts with the Regions. This was initiated in time non-suspecto. I told you, I invited the regional ministers again last week. I made presentations, we informed them of the important points in the file. I gave them all the information about the communication campaign and offered them to be important partners. This meeting was very positive. As far as the provinces are concerned, governors, who have an important role to play, have also been involved. For the communes, what do we do? We're doing a roadshow in every province, with the governor. The federal government is involved, and Elia and the Crisis Centre are present. Apart from the information provided to them by the governors, who were mandated to do so, the mayors had the capacity to ask all their questions. This is vital since they will be the first concerned. I would also point out that over the last two years, via the Regions, they have been informed, including by the Minister of the Interior, of all the measures to be taken in the event of an emergency. A file, specifically a binder, was sent to each non-suspected municipality in tempore. We need to be as informed as possible and continue to do so. I really think that this roadshow clearly makes it possible to have privileged contacts with all these mayors. I come back later to the demands of the municipalities and now address the important point of collaboration with the companies. A series of meetings and contacts were made directly with the representative federations. In addition, a seminar was organised this week by the FEB, in which key partners were present. I was there myself. The positive mobilisation of all companies is to be welcomed. I receive requests from the municipalities, or even some companies, who want to get out of the relief plan. I don't get it every day, but I got it. We talked earlier about Ghent, but that's not the only request. I have to take into account all the mail that comes to me and not just one mail. As far as municipalities are concerned, there are two attitudes. Some municipalities are fully mobilized and have already anticipated, as power cuts can occur every day. I take at random the power cut on Sunday night in Ghent. It had nothing to do with a shortage. It wasn't a high-voltage job problem. It was a cabin problem. DRMs are a regional competence. For almost two hours, thousands of households were deprived of electricity. This can happen any time. I repeat: there was no shortage on Sunday night. An incident, in this case at a cabin, may occur. So I got all these letters. Everyone makes arguments that can be heard. Some communes mobilize a great deal and reject the plan. I would remind you that in the absence of a plan, everyone will be blurred! If we don't have a release plan, it's the blackout. The blackout is everyone; it's not two hours. It's more than 24 hours and, in my opinion, it will take several days to reconnect everyone. If we want an effective recovery plan, and not for the pleasure of having one, we need to make it functional. That's what I care about. Of course, we can understand all the arguments put forward. First, priority clients are hospitals and health centres. As foreseen in the regulatory basis, it is important that they have emergency generators. However, they do not have them for all services. They will therefore be high-priority clients; I confirm this again very clearly. I recognize that we too are facing difficulties. What are we doing for these priority clients, hospitals and health centres? Relay between the Public Health FPS (which gives all the information, addresses, EAN code, etc.) and Synergrid, the GRDs. Why? Will hospitals be removed from the release plan? No! That's impossible. Let me remind you that it is the high-voltage stations that come out of the discharge plan. Behind a high voltage station, there can be a very large number of cabins. Hospitals will therefore be removed, but they will be refueled in the following minutes by DRMs.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u25	You've already said that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u26	I repeat this because I have been asked a question on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u27	That is indeed fundamental.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u28	In view of the above, all the work is done again from the cabins. I told you I served as a go-between. Of course, I had asked and pressured to get this list of priority customers by September 15. The thing is, when I do the go-between between the Public Health FPS and the DRMs, it gets stuck. So I'm trying to establish as many connections as possible. Indeed, there are obvious problems because the addresses provided by the administrations, namely the Public Health FPS, do not correspond to the delivery addresses. So you have a delivery address that corresponds to an X cabin, but the rest of the services, etc. Maybe depends in part on another cabin. If the GRD is based solely on the address provided by the famous code I was talking about earlier, the hospital will not be able to benefit from the reconnection of the other cabin, which is obviously important. Today, I asked them to consult each other so that they could give the correct addresses and, above all, to ensure that the addresses of the cabins cover all the cabins that supply the hospital services so that no problems arise. FPS Public Health and distributors inform me that this work will be finalized this week or at the latest next week. I'm trying to push them to the maximum. I depend on each other. What matters to me is that there is no error with regard to hospitals and that we avoid being in such a situation that the cabin near a hospital X is different from the one that actually feeds that hospital. Therefore, the Public Health FPS and DRMs must be clear and give us all the guarantees in this regard. For all the others: the municipalities, the companies, the port of Ghent – I will not list the list that I have received – we will, together with Mr Melchior Wathelet, who as Minister of the Interior is responsible for the crisis and is therefore largely concerned with this subject, send a joint letter to all the requests received, in order to be clear, including with the Crisis Centre. This mail is going to leave today or tomorrow. What's the cascade? In relation to all these demands, I want to be friendly and say that we're going to get everyone out of the clearance plan. But you'll come and tell me tomorrow that this is a scandal. I have to. I want to be nice, nice, but I don't do a favor if I say yes to everyone who asks me. I'm not doing any service to the whole thing. I assure you, then we risk the blackout. I'm coming back to the waterfall. First step: those who consider that they have urgent needs for electricity first try to find a particular solution to their situation. For example, a Seveso company, in the event of a break in electricity, may suffer significant damage. There was a power cut on Sunday night in Ghent. I am not going to commit myself to all Seveso companies, but I dare imagine that they already have, very likely, special solutions. If there is none, you probably have to think about it. A power cut, I repeat, can happen by incident outside of a shortage situation. Second step: if there is no specific solution at their level and there is an urgent need for electricity, it is necessary to discuss with the local authorities how the problem could be addressed. Step three: According to a procedure agreed at the meeting with the governors on 3 September, those companies or communes that identify compelling needs that they do not know how to meet for themselves can and must then contact the governor of their province. The Governor may apply to the DSO for a solution. On the model of hospitals, one could imagine a possibility of recharge within a few minutes after the discharge. The intervention of DRMs is therefore the only possibility with regard to regional competences; direct intervention by ministers would be ill-advised at the risk of becoming favouritism. We have therefore provided for a clear and objective procedure. This intervention must remain exceptional or we would risk undermining the recovery plan and penalising the entire population. Another element can be taken into account. A deletable high voltage station must have previously been equipped with radio frequency beacons to allow its remote disconnection. Of about 800 stations in Belgium, not all are equipped with such beacons; therefore, these cannot be removed for technical reasons. Another possible scheme in the event of a particular problem would be a random or anarchic disconnection of posts equipped with these beacons. In accordance with the predefined procedure, it is necessary first to seek a solution for a particular situation, then to consider the problem with the local authorities, then with the governor who communicates directly with the DSOs; finally, as a last resort, the solution is sought through the high voltage stations, which remains particularly complicated. If a region is in a non-deletable zone and it is decided to place one of its cabins in a deletable zone, the process will not be easy to carry out. This requires a series of technical decisions. You really have to try to see how we can bring solutions at the micro level. In case of urgent need and if there is no other solution, we will have to be able to proceed as we do for hospitals, via a re-feeding in the following minutes. Questions were also raised regarding liability and compensation. I had already spoken at the meeting in early September. In this regard, I reminded you that there was no regulatory basis, legal or otherwise, but that the Civil Code was applicable. It is important that we can make all the clarity on contracts. In fact, there are a multitude of contracts between multiple actors. In this area, the CREG's proposal on liability and possible compensation was excellent and I propose that it take its own hand with all the actors. I can only join and join in this proposal from the CREG. I have heard some compare Belgium to a developing country. I find this comparison quite surprising because, in this case, Japan, Brittany, California, New York, Chicago, which suffers very regularly cuts of this type, are also developing regions! For my part, I will express things differently. And I do not want – neither me, nor you, nor those who will come tomorrow – to clear no one of the responsibilities that he has to assume in this matter; I will return to it. But there is no zero risk of electricity. It is not for fun that I recall once again what Ghent experienced on Sunday night, but it shows that outside of any period of shortage, this can happen. This is an incident and it can happen! We can also have some relief because of the neighbouring countries. Remember, in 2006, there was a serious problem in Germany and in cascade, in the European network. On that day, much of Antwerp had been taken away, blindly by the way. So, rather than making statements of this kind, it is time to stick together and roll up the sleeves, let each one do the utmost, at its level: federal, regional, communal or at the level of companies – I have recently seen that the FEB is also doing so – on the side of the public authorities and the actors in the energy sector, so that in the coming weeks maximum energy, electricity and additional production can be mobilised. Every effort must also be made to minimize the risks, but also the consequences. I am one of those who believe that even when decisions are not pleasant, even when the situation is not comfortable, especially following the sabotage of Doel 4, each political leader, at each level, must be able to assume his skills. We have to stick together to move forward. I think that is what citizens and businesses expect of us. And, Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make this kind of statement because in recent days I have had the opportunity to hear speeches at other assemblies.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, you spoke of a legal opinion of the SPF Economy. Could we have it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u30	As I have asked for a supplement, what I may propose to you is that I may send it to you as soon as I have the package; I will transmit it to you at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u31	Yes, you send it to the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u32	I'll send it as it's done and you'll do the translation?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u33	It would be good for the SPF Economy to provide the translation itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u34	Maybe it'll take a little longer. So I'm going to ask them as soon as I can. I shall ask, of my own motion, to dispose of the document in both languages. I'll give it to you as soon as it's finalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u35	Perfect. You also mentioned the very long list of contacts.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u36	I'll send it to you, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u37	That way, everyone can see all the contacts that have been made or still have to be made in relation to the situation. And of course, as far as the CREG working group is concerned, the message will be sent to the CREG, but this message had already been sent last week, and then we will see how to formalize it vis-à-vis the CREG. It is indeed Parliament that has the authority over the CREG, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u38	It's a great idea. I'll leave your hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u39	We will formalize this on behalf of the committee. As the CREG has made many positive proposals, so as to bounce back on these positive proposals in the context of this dossier. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, before giving you the floor for your replies or requests for explanation, if you want parliamentary work, the secretariat could also serve as a 'common forum' for all suggestions and try to make a working group to close our hearings with a joint resolution, if possible, in this Parliament. The secretariat could then be the receptacle of the proposals of the different groups. I now give the floor to the various parliamentarians who still want to take it. Go ahead, Mr. Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u40	Madam Secretary of State, certain points in your reply are not quite clear to me. As far as interconnection is concerned, you have talked about increasing capacity as the government's decision. At the same time, however, we hear the CREG say that this 3 500 megawatt is not an absolute limit but that in many cases this could be the limit. If you are talking about increasing capacity, how do you see it in practice, because we can of course all say tomorrow that from now on it will be 4 500 megawatts.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u41	Madam President, I would like to clarify this point. On the one hand, there is a given obligation and, to this end, additional equipment and work must be carried out by Elia at the level of interconnections. I am neither a technician nor an expert in the place of Elia who has given me a certain timing. On the other hand, there is a second part. We're still talking about 3,500 MW. I would point out that this can be more, even if it cannot be an additional 3,000 MW, as you know very well. However, it can play. Being a little higher than the ceiling does not require the famous additional equipment (lines, etc.).). Efforts should also be made to maximize interconnection capacity at each time. So we probably understand each other better.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u42	In any case, we will have to look at how it takes shape in practice and what its impact is. We know that there are problems with the distribution system operators with regard to emergency generators. However, some of the emergency generators are already present in the tertiary reserve by all kinds of aggregators. You mentioned restore, Actility is another and there are still so. Have the emergency generators owned by the federal government been offered and viewed in that context? I know that many players would like to participate in the reserves through the aggregators. The question is whether the federal government has asked the same question. That could make a contribution to a lot of things. It does require action by the federal government itself to intervene. It is not so much the problem of distribution system operators. Has the first step been taken by the government to see if the possibility exists? That is an important matter. I also asked about the disks and the order of the disks. Are we going from disk 6 to disk 1 or is it different?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u43	Practically, with Mr. Wathelet, we chose to operate, in the case of a manual release plan (penury), not from tranche 1 to tranche 6 as is done in the case of automatic removal, but from tranche 6 to tranche 1. It made sense to have an inversion. In fact, if, today, there is an automatic discharge due to a problem, an incident, this removal will take place at the level of tranche 1. If there is a shortage in the future, the other procedure will take action and the tranche 1 will again be concerned. In other words, in this way, the same people are always asked first. To try to be fair, we wanted to reverse the tranche in one direction and the other. But if I want to be pure, on the basis of the ministerial decree, I would like to point out that in the event of a shortage and a decision by the Ministers of Economy and Energy to lift the burden, then the decision will be taken legally. That was our proposal. I will not answer today in the place of the ministers who will be in place tomorrow. If they believe that Mr. Wathelet and I have told anything, and that they want to operate, first, for example, Band 3 rather than Band 6, they will be entitled to do so. There is no provision for this in the Ministerial Order. Not for the coming winter, but for the coming winters, this is something that could be more clearly defined in the 2005 Ministerial Order. But the advantages and disadvantages of this change will have to be addressed in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u44	Madam Secretary of State, I understand that it will be up to your successor to decide. But for your part, you are rather in favour of the 6-1 optics. What would happen if the needs were to be greater? Everyone knows that one slice represents about 520 megawatts. According to your logic, do you start again at six?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u45	I'm not doing it again. I still hope that there will be no discharge and we must do everything we can to ensure that this is the case, but if today it is necessary to remove 2 hours, it will be at the level of tranche 6, if tomorrow it is still necessary, it is tranche 5 which will be the subject of a discharge, etc. Indeed, it should not always be the same slice that is being asked for.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u46	And after the six slices?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u47	In my logic, we start again at six.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u48	In line with the 5%, which you recalled earlier, and for which the legal opinion we are going to receive will be interesting, there are twenty tranches, not six tranches.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u49	In practice, there are actually the slices and each slice makes 5%, with the number of megawatts. When you touch the south-east and south-west areas, you take off the A or B.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u50	Madam Secretary of State, I had also asked a question about this. I can understand that the order is reversed. I follow the reasoning that the same municipalities should not always be affected in the event of a switch-off, both in the event of a sudden cut-off and in the case of a switch-off plan. However, my question was also whether the economic consequences were taken into account, per disc. Have they been mapped? I can imagine that, in order from 1 to 6, it was taken into account that the cut-off of zone 1 causes less economic damage than the cut-off of zone 6. Now, however, the order is completely reversed, which actually affects the areas for which the switch-off has the greatest economic impact. That decision has now been taken by the current Secretary of State for Energy and the Minister for Economic Affairs. The reversal of the order is a purely political decision, which could possibly be changed by future ministers. Did I get it that well?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u51	I think it's not a good idea to change it tomorrow, and that makes sense to me. I will not go forward for those who will succeed me and who may refer to the existing ministerial order. I also want to be correct and honest about it. No one knew in these differences slices, zones, etc., which cabins were behind since they were high voltage stations. High-voltage stations are included in a given band; at some point, the number of megawatts corresponding to the 500 is technical work. Today, we have a clear vision of what each high voltage station covers. So far, tap down has been done, i.e., from high-voltage stations, and as we move on, we've been digging to find out what all these high-voltage stations are. One of the tracks for the following years would be to do bottom-up and start from the realities of companies, neighbourhoods, etc., to go back to the cabins, to see what they correspond to and possibly to assign them a scale of graduation in the way with which they are to be removed, to check whether this fits with the posts, since it is the posts that are equipped with beacons to be able to be relieved. I could also leave this task to my successor. Easy, it's not! This work is heavy and complex, but it would be interesting to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u52	Mr Wollants, do you have any further questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u53	Many questions were, of course, about which additional criteria should be included in the exit plan in order to keep the impact as low as possible, without undermining the exit plan itself. Madam Secretary of State, I understand from your answer that this is going to be a long-term work. I understand that a study must be carried out prior to this process and that we do not have to expect that these steps will be possible before this winter. If that is the conclusion, it is a pity that these criteria were not taken into account earlier. It is true that we used to have no idea what could happen, but today we do know that and now there are questions coming up that I think are more than justified. We must look at the consequences and how we will deal with them in the future. I call for the necessary data to be collected as soon as possible so that the switch-off plan can become one where we can make the most of it in the future so that as many people, consumers, businesses and businesses can be protected. I do realize that this cannot happen overnight, although that is a pity.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u54	Madam President, I thank the Secretary of State for all these explanations. I think we have to stay honest with her. It is clear that it cannot take great steps, make great plans for the future when perhaps, in a week or tomorrow, it will no longer be there. You have to be aware of all this. I think we're all a little aware of this. In politics, we work together today and more the next day. When we've done things together, we also have to deal with things together. Political correction wants that. At the PS, we'll be right at that level. As far as responsibilities are concerned, we may be concerned. The CREG has explained to us that in terms of liability... when I hear the word liability in case of discharge, if any operator, industrial or other, considers that he has suffered damage, one can ask whether he will claim compensation from someone on the basis of this power cut for which he is not responsible and which has caused him harm. The CREG explained to us that in fact there was a contract between all the partners that binds them. The consumer has a contract with the distributor, ORES, who has a contract with Elia who has a contract with Electrabel. They said that each time we pass on responsibilities to each other through these contracts that bind everyone. I admit that today, legally, this does not seem very clear to me. This question will arise very acutely in the event of discharge. This is a subject that we will have to reflect on again. For the rest, we had all the explanations. As for the order of the slices, I hope that we will not do the cycle several times. That would mean we're going to have very big problems. In the first discussions, we were told that there was little chance of having a slice...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u55	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u56	In that case, we would be in a very difficult situation. It's apocalyptic. I also hope that we will have good news with Doel 4 and that we will soon know if the reactor can restart by the end of the year. I hope that we can count on its nominal capacity (about 1,000 MW) for January. That would be reassuring. I did not want to interrupt my colleague from the MR who announced that there had been no meeting of the mayors by the governor of Hainaut. There was a meeting that took place on Monday.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u57	I simply wanted to say that not all the mayors were together at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u58	As far as Liège is concerned, I am not part of the political-political debate. The governors are politically asexual but they had another life before. Madam Secretary of State, while you are in the government, could you ask your colleagues in the MR to tell the governor of the province of Liège, who previously had a certain political background, to organise a meeting of the mayors because they are waiting for explanations? It is important that the governor do his work at this level, as all the others did.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u59	Madam President, Mr President, I come back to the question of responsibilities and all the compensation that will arise afterwards. In my view, there are three levels of responsibility. The first is at the level of the environment unfavourable to investments in the energy sector due to decisions that have sometimes been inconsistent since all governments over the last 15 years. Everyone bears a little responsibility for it. We are in a market economy and we can understand that all these investors prefer to turn to markets where rules are better defined, to markets where profitability is more established. Another responsibility is of course related to the problem of Tihange 2, Doel 3, Doel 4. This is a bit of a case of force majeure on which it is difficult to return. Finally, there is also the problem of electricity producers and distributors. Prior to liberalization, the producer was a distributor. Today it is no longer necessarily so. It will be necessary to see if there is a legal framework. It will probably be one of the work of the next government to set frameworks and contracts for all these distributors. It's all about rackettering, getting contracts all over the place, but at least they have to have supply contracts to secure their customers. If these 25 distributors on the market had supply contracts with electricity producers, we would certainly not be there today. Moreover, as far as D-7 is concerned, it seems difficult to say seven days in advance "next week, we will be in the process of being relieved". Are there specific ways to determine a week before we'll be out 7 days later?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u60	As I explained to you – I gave you all the procedures at the previous committee – at J-7, Elia is in a position to determine whether there is a risk of a shortage. If you enjoy it, you can follow the situation live, permanently, on the Elias site with a red light system, orange light and green light. When Elia has detected the risk, a procedure is used for all those responsible, i.e. at the federal level, the ministers of energy, the economy, the interior, the crisis centre, the administrations, the regional ministers, the ministers-presidents, etc. Then, on a day-to-day basis, we refine the realization of the risk. Either at J-3, Elia tells us that we can stop everything, that everything is fine, that the risk has disappeared. Either the situation confirms the shortage and, with the various actors around the table, the decisions are taken in good time. Are ministerial orders issued at that time to inform about major restrictions or even prohibitions: buildings, lighting, heating, consumers or other measures? Maybe it'll be J-4, J-2. This will depend on the actual situation. There will also be an increase in the continuous campaign to try to raise awareness among all consumers. Then we'll have a near certainty at J-1, maybe at J-2 if the situation is more serious. When you are in a difficult situation, you are not at 0 MW of electricity in Belgium! In case of risk, with a peak of 13,000, 14,000 MW – it will be of that order, no more – and that you have a difficult time to pass, maybe because you are at 12,600 MW of capacity (production and import). We're not in Zero! This is the J-7 procedure, which will be refined as and when. If this happens, the J-7 procedure will allow us to say to J-1 that efforts have been made and that there will be no relief a priori.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, the questions have apparently been asked. After all, I don't hear anything new.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u62	I have one short question. There have been several discussions on the ministerial decisions. Would it not be interesting to know the content of the ministerial decisions in question, which are being developed by your administration today? As mayor, I have a skating rink in my municipality. I would like to know, on behalf of the organisers, whether or not the skating rink will be switched off.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u63	That's right. It was planned. It's true I didn't say that earlier. Of course, we're not going to take an arrest today and publish it. On the other hand, I did say that the arrests were in preparation. They are almost ready in the administrations. The aim is to be able to send them for information – and this will be done – to local authorities but also to federations, and especially to employers' federations. This will allow them to anticipate and prepare. On the day on which the ministerial decree is eventually to be adopted, everyone will already have all the knowledge. In addition, there may also be additional ideas emerging from the briefings. It is necessary to keep in constant contact and adapt to be as effective as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u64	Mr President, I apologize to the services for my excessive speed of speech in my first speech; I am slowing down. It is clear that information and coordination will be important elements of this file. Madam Secretary of State, you have remained rather vague about Doel 4; no doubt you do not have the precise information. However, this remains important: the reactivation of this plant would have very positive consequences. It would therefore be interesting to know Electrabel's position quickly enough in order to know the direction that the problem will take. The critical period will begin on 1 November: it is in a month and the urgency is felt. Thank you, therefore, for the answers you have given us, because we have received clarification. With regard to hospitals and other priorities, I can understand the technical problem raised. We must remain vigilant and secure; we still have a short time to do so. You announced an assessment after the winter period on the release plan. It is obvious that we want this report in order to prepare a long-term vision. However, not to activate the release plan remains essential. Preventive measures will be taken from 15 October, which is close, but the aim will be to analyse the effects of this prevention and to observe real changes in the behaviour of citizens, under the penalty of having to carry out a re-evaluation. Mr. Thiébaut, yes, every province, every governor takes his responsibilities. Also in Liège; in Hainaut, you held this meeting a few days ago and we organize it in a few days. November 1st is near, but it is not easy for some mayors to take the appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u65	Madam Secretary of State, you have talked a lot about the situation in Ghent. You also explained that it would be up to the next minister to make choices. You have absolutely not touched upon an issue that has already been raised, that of the imbalance in the area of the Centre. The suggestion was made to make, here too, an area A and a zone B. Was this point raised in the legal opinion that was given to you? I also come back to the question of the six tranches. You present the situation in a rather optimistic way because you hope, and so do we, that we will not have to do several turns and return to the slice six a second time. However, in Elia's probabilistic study, it is considered that there would be 20 days of discharge of two or three hours for a normal winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u66	It's not about 20 days of relief! It's a 49-hour LOLE but it doesn't include Doel 4's recovery, it doesn't fit everything suppliers and producers do today on the basis of the imbalance tariff, it doesn't integrate awareness measures with a capacity of 1,000 megawatts. It's not 49 hours to zero megawatt, it's 49 potentially difficult hours. With Doel 4, with mobilization via producers and suppliers and hundreds of additional megawatts and consumption reductions, I think we can move on. The calculation was made on the basis of 49 hours and this represents, for each citizen, two to three two-hour cuts throughout the winter. But it could just as well be zero!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u67	In the slide that Elia presented to us, it was indicated that 49 hours corresponded to twenty days with a cut of two to three hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u68	I'm not saying it. Elia wrote it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u69	I'll explain. You've been a minister of energy, you know some things, I guess.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u70	Justice!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u71	When you talk about difficult hours, you don't cut all of Belgium! We don't cut the 10 million!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u72	We understand that! You're not gonna teach us a lesson.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u73	Mr Nollet, let the Secretary of State answer. She's answering you about your twenty days.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u74	49 hours, you work in 500 megawatt slices. Do the math, it's a simple rule of three, you know how to do that. You, Mr. Nollet, how many times are you going to be cut this winter? I don't even know if you're in a slice, whatever. The statistical calculation corresponds to two or three two-hour cuts over the winter. We rotate the slices. We don't cut all the slices at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u75	That's what I was saying. So we will do several tricks, in the statistics that are given. You say: you will be cut two to three times, two to three hours. For sure, it's good to go back to Zone 6 or Zone 1 depending on the order. Then let me complete my reasoning, and then you will say that you disagree. At that time, there is a concern, in the sense that there are only six areas that are taken into consideration, whereas there should be about 20 slices depending on the rule. To this, in relation to the Ministerial Order, you have no answer. I will read the legal study carefully, since we will also receive it, not with regard to the order of the tranches... I understand that the next minister will determine the order of the tranches. In my opinion, it maintains uncertainty and thus "boxon". When the representatives of CREG were received here, they said that the ministerial decree is only a ministerial decree. It can be completed in this respect. We can change it and we can complete it. It would have been, I believe, more relevant to set the order here now and not to change it with the next government. How do you want the businesses, the citizens, the communities that had cut off the nice cards they had been given to them to find out if they say that, in fact, we don't know, we don't know the order in which this is going to happen? On the other hand, I return to this element, there will be after the first round of the six slices, a second or even a third round. I think that we are not in compliance with the ministerial decree. Now I come to the question of hospitals, since you said that the lists still have to be confronted, between the listings that have been transmitted to you, consumer listings and billing listings. It was your pattern with both glasses. The houses that are located near the hospitals will also benefit from the reopening of the cabin. Therefore, in the information given to citizens, this dimension should also be mentioned. I saw that the GRDs had published the streets affected by the slices and that's a good thing. At this stage, however, we did not remember which streets were where hospitals were located and which would be reopened. So some companies or independents will unnecessarily shut down their facilities when they are powered by the same cabin as a hospital. We're not just going to feed the hospital; it's the cabin that's going to be recharged! It is good that an evaluation is planned at the end of this winter to prepare the following Ministerial Order and the 2015-2016 Release Plan. Is it possible to plan, at your level, a supervisory loop so as not to be confronted with the same problem as that encountered this year, namely that it is a university professor who has to make the change? Could you, yourself, review the plan you tabled? I come to responsibility and compensation. It is precisely because we are not in a developing country – and that is an expression I have not used – that we must now clarify this issue. It is not acceptable in our developed countries, when there is a cut, when there is a need to take off, that people are told: "Get out of the way! Pay yourself!" The Federal Office of the Plan estimated the cost of this forced release at an average of €8,300 per MWh.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u76	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u77	You say it's the cost of black out. Let us take the study of the CREG, which was published this weekend and which, in turn, speaks of the cost of forced relief. It is estimated at EUR 8,300 per MWh. And it even makes a proposal; I suppose you've seen it too. It is a document published on 8 September but which, strangely, was published on the CREG website after the latter's passage before our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u78	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u79	But I don't accuse you at all! I'm just saying that the CREG came and we could see it on the CREG website...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u80	I received it after September 8th!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u81	I'm not accusing you at all! I'll take the information. On the other hand, you have had the opportunity to read this study, in which it is not at all specified that the 8,300 euros per MWh will be allocated to blackout. This amount is also considered for cases of shortage, which we are now dealing with! It is interesting to observe what it says: "The strategic reserve will be emptied, but those responsible for the shortage will have to continue to pay the €4,500 per MWh". That's why I'm asking you. At a minimum, these 4,500 euros per MWh that those responsible for the shortage will have to continue to pay as they already did, but these will be used to operate the strategic reserve, are they not a good basis for starting the compensation, the ideal being to arrive at the sum of 8,300 euros? And the CREG is making a proposal on this in the report released this weekend. But it's not for the blackout at all, it's for the current situation. In any case, for environmentalists, in the context of the resolution referred to by our colleagues, it is essential to be able to insist on this idea of compensation by those responsible. Of course, legal work on the cascade of responsibilities is necessary. The working group must set up at the level of the Chamber, the CREG depending on it, but the very principle of compensation, notably thanks to the minimum feeding of 4,500 euros per missing MWh, seems to me to have to be clarified. I would like to hear from you on this point now, because we are not in a developing country. With regard to the problem of optimal interconnection, you said that you had requested additional work from Elia, in the wake of what the CREG is asking, namely to recalculate the interconnection capacity, in order of course to increase it. This does not mean that it can be done because it must be available and it must be paid. Have you determined a time frame for this calculation? Of course it will be as soon as possible, but everyone knows that the so-called critical period begins on 1 November, even if you regularly point out that it will be from January that the necessity will be affirmed. I hope that this calculation will be carried out. More fundamentally, I would like to ask about the strategy that has put us in this situation, not only with regard to the calculation of closure flows – this is a problem and, according to the figures you have mentioned, could perhaps release 1,000 MWh according to simple recalculation – but also with regard to its investment component. Indeed, I am surprised to read the Elia Group's financial press release, dated at the end of August, and to note that Elia "welcomes the work done during this excellent first half of 2014 and the good semi-annual result with an increase in the consolidated net profit of just under 22%" and that "the investment programme will not be changed", that it is maintained, meaning that "in Belgium, only maintenance and consolidation investments will be made" whereas in Germany, investments in network development are made. So our Belgian network would not need development? The current situation is partly due to a lack of investment in network development. Do you share this strategy without reacting, despite the difficult situation we are experiencing and despite this strategic financial choice allowing investments in the development of the German network, unlike Belgium, which obtains only maintenance? That, in my view, poses a real problem of strategic choice. As a minister or even a secretary of state, it would be appropriate to mention this aspect in your reply. I come to the question of information and awareness. Yesterday I read statements from your Walloon colleague: "Things are not clear yet". Anyway, it's still boxing. I think so all the more so after your remarks today, which are perfectly legally correct but nevertheless problematic: the next minister could decide on a completely different plan. In fact, ministerial orders will only be made on the basis of his designation. Today, I hear that our Flemish colleague...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u82	Mrs Turtelboom just communicated it right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u83	So we also need to review the release plan! Madam Secretary of State, we are in total chaos! We wanted to get out with a new plan, not only do we not have it, but the population is not informed and still does not have access to the sites via an EAN code in order to know the area in which to be located; thirdly, it is the next minister who can decide the order; fourthly, the regional ministers – Flemish minister in the lead – are now asking for a review of the discharge plan. Anyway, the "boxon" you were afraid of sets up. What is your reaction to Minister Turtelboom's intervention today? I would also like you to give us this plan J-7 / J-1. At what specific time is the Ministerial Order setting out the clearance areas to be taken? And J-7, and J-4, and J-2, and J-1? This program will be very important at some point. You need to give us this information so that people can know when the ministerial order is to be made. Tell us what happens day by day, between the J-7 and the J-1. As far as Doel 4 is concerned, are we really considering reopening, when we do not yet know the author of the sabotage? Some doubts are largely legitimate. With respect to the documents, when we received the CRE, the CRE told us that it was up to the Minister to provide the CRE's opinion on the Ministerial Order. Madam Secretary of State, do you agree to transmit, in accordance with the same procedure with the services, the opinion of the CREG on the 2003 Ministerial Order? Moreover, we do not have the internal procedural plan which is this famous safeguard code. On page 26 of the report of 18 September, the CREG says that it will send it to the Secretary of State and that it is up to her to make it available to the commission. Madam Secretary of State, could you give us this document which I believe is important. As I said at each meeting, this is also where the details of how the discharge will be organised are played out. I conclude by stressing the need for this working group. I would like to address the chair who is acting to get this working group started without waiting for the next government. I am talking about the working group where CREG must put in place all the exchanges of information on liability and compensation. This is fundamental for us! I therefore call on colleagues to send their proposals so that the resolution can be made without delay, as it is approaching 1 November. It is in a month's time, and at that time the question must be clarified, particularly the question of compensation. This will in any case take on an important dimension in our proposals for the resolution so that people, businesses and communities can be fully reassured from this point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u84	Thank you, Mr. Nollet. Your reply was very long!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u85	No, Mr. Chairman, this is not a reply, it is complementary questions that we have proposed to ask in the second part. It was not a reply; it will come after.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u86	You had to agree with your colleague Calvo! Mr Carcaci has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Nor will I abuse the time of the Secretary of State. I'll be very brief. Moreover, my question requires an answer only by yes or no. The capacity of the 3,500 megawatts, which is a distribution capacity, was discussed earlier. I come back to the question of whether we have firm agreements with a potential supplier to provide us with these 3,500 megawatts? Have we signed an agreement that would avoid any shortage, I think?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u88	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you one more question, which Mr Nollet also asked, and which, more than any other, deserves an answer. Just now, at the meeting of this committee, we were able to take note of the fact that Mrs Turtelboom, the Flemish Minister for Energy, is asking for the switch-off plan to be completely reversed. Madam Secretary of State, what we are experiencing today is absolute madness! Yesterday, Walloon Minister Furlan said that they were not prepared. This committee should in principle draw conclusions, but suddenly appears on our iPhone that according to the regional minister, who you just said in your reply that you are sitting around the table with her, the plan should be overturned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u89	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I have one more question in between. When has there been any further consultation with the regional ministers? Would you mind explaining that for me?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u90	I will try to answer all these questions. As far as the centre area is concerned, I would point out that the annex to the ministerial decree does not provide for regulatory criteria within an area. In practice, the central area consists of part of the Walloon Brabant - another part of the Walloon Brabant is not in the central area - the Flemish Brabant and Brussels. I do not agree to follow you in a Community debate on the Community imbalance you are pointing out in the central area. Firstly, because, by regulation, there are no criteria on this. With its 5%, the centre area complies with the Ministerial Order. On the other hand, if we begin to look in an area such as this one at the number of Francophones and Dutch speakers, I find it unhealthy. You also forget that Brussels – which is 90% French-speaking as a reminder – except for one or two streets in Uccle, is in an out-of-home area. Perhaps for the winter or the following winters others will want to cut Belgium not in the five areas as they are now planned. You can predict a thousand or do whatever you want, but there's no room to discuss this for this winter. After that, we will see what the next government will do with it. Second point: when do the ministerial decrees come out in the procedure from J-7 to J-1 and J0? I could answer you a day and an hour, but I'd tell you something. In fact, it is quite possible that, in the planned procedure, the point will then be made day by day and in the last straight line at least twice a day because the forecasts will become more and more refined. It is on the basis of these forecasts, estimates and therefore projections that decisions will be made at the best time. Perhaps in a situation, some decisions will already have to be taken at J-5 because the risk of shortage or deficiency is greater, because the number of megawatts compared to the peak is greater. For a small risk of shortage, it is quite possible that this will simply refine the day before. In this area, we must work first and foremost to stick to reality. We must not go into procedures which, in my view, do not correspond to the real situation. With regard to the liability for compensation, Mr President, I have already responded earlier by making it clear that I supported the CREG proposal and that it was necessary to move forward in this area in order to clarify these multiple contracts. It was also requested that the DRMs further clarify matters. I'm not asking for any better. The DRGs did this for the first time this winter. They had never done it in the last winters. Mr Nollet, you might also have been able to ask them when you were the regional minister in this matter! Whatever! If precise details are to be obtained from the DSOs, this obviously needs to be done at the level of competences where they need to be assumed, namely the Regions. To answer your question about homes and hospitals, in the vast majority of cases – I am not a technical expert who goes to the field every day, especially in the cabins; this falls within the competence of the DSOs – I think that most often the cabins that supply hospitals do not supply at the same time a large number of dwellings; I even think that, often, a cabin is provided per hospital, or even two. However, this has to be confirmed by the DSOs. I would therefore like to refer you back to the Regions. What is the use of the 4,500 Euro MWh on the imbalance tariff? First, they serve the imbalance tariff. Producers/suppliers who have a production or import higher than consumption benefit as a bonus from the 4,500 MWh tariff. Conversely, those who have a production-import purchased less than the consumption of their customers, pay. We're trying to titillate the producers-suppliers to get more. Second important point: if everyone is below the consumption of these customers, what these 4,500 MWh are used for. According to the CREG (to be checked), this results in a decrease in the transport tariff and thus benefits all consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u91	This therefore benefits 11 million consumers and not just those affected by the floods.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u92	It is as it existed, as it existed before. For our part, we have inflated the imbalance tariff to force producers and suppliers to import more, which is a cost to producers and suppliers. Having said that, I am open to all formulas. We could imagine and change anything we want. But we must be aware that this tariff will be applied to consumers. As far as imports are concerned, has an agreement been signed with the other countries? No. It's a deal. That is why we have set a high rate of imbalance. The aim is to push producers and suppliers to move, to pay, and to buy to inflate imported electricity to the maximum. But we are not at all in this pattern. The opinion of the CREG of 2005 on the ministerial decree – I was obviously not in office that year – has not yet been communicated to me. She told you about it here. I'll get in touch with her so she can send me that notice. Personally, I have no problem, unless the CREG informs me that it is an internal document, communicating it to you as soon as I am in its possession. Finally, if I may, I will speak on Mrs Turtelboom's statement. I did some research on this on my phone, including whether there was a press release from the Belga Agency or whether I had received a text message or a call from him or his office. I didn't find anything. I therefore do not know the content of his statement. I just heard what you told me. Still, I have invited them to come, despite all the meetings that have been held, including at the political level, for the past two years. I therefore met Mr Furlan, Mrs Turtelboom and Mrs Fremault on 23 September. They all thanked me at the end of the meeting. To make it clear, they did not mention any problems. If one point is to be raised, I expect to see what they say about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-01-54-commissie-ic009x.u93	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. I think we can close our work.
