ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u1	We'll start the meeting. The chairman of the Committee on the Interior will join us. He sent a text message to report that he was on his way. Since the CREG is present in number, we will first hear its presentations. Then we'll move on to all your questions. The presentation text has been distributed to you in both languages.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u2	Madame la présidente, ladies and gentlemen of the committee, we are present today on your proposal in this joint committee to present to you, from the point of view of the CREG, a number of points concerning security of supply. I will first give a brief introduction to the role of the CREG. Then Koen Locquet will talk about the shutdown plan. Laurent Jacquet will talk about price monitoring and trends for the future. Finally, Andreas Tirez will explain the functioning of the market in the event of power shortages and power shortages. Many parties play a role in the security of supply dossier. Since 2012, the role of the CREG has been clarified. The CREG now carries out three missions. Firstly, within its general powers, it must make its expertise available to various authorities, for example the Minister for Energy. The CREG can take the initiative itself or its opinion can be requested. It also participates in working groups, for example on alternative slopes or prospective studies. Secondly, the CREG must evaluate prices and costs. This is the core business of the CREG. For example, the CREG plays an important role in monitoring prices. Laurent Jacquet will come back to that at length. The CREG has also recently published an opinion on the price of the strategic reserve. It will also evaluate the costs of extending Tihange 1's lifespan. Thirdly, the CREG must evaluate and improve the market model. It shall evaluate whether the market incentives are correct. More generally, the CREG plays the role of market supervisor, in particular since REMIT entered into force, the Regulation on Energy Market Integrity and Transparency. It will also check whether the infrastructure for the interconnection of Belgium with neighbouring countries is sufficiently developed and ensure that projects of general interest are carried out. Furthermore, the CREG plays the role of market facilitator, inter alia through the analysis of contracts between suppliers and distribution system operators. As mentioned above, the role of the CREG has been clarified since 2012 until these three missions. For the continuation of our explanation, I would like to give the floor to Koen Locquet.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u3	Madam President, I would like to briefly explain the exit plan, the deletage plan, and, in particular, the role of the CREG within it. I will not go into all the details because we have seen that Elijah has given a comprehensive explanation in one of your previous meetings, and we believe that this explanation is quite complete. As a reminder, the Electricity Act clearly states that a technical regulation must be drawn up by the transmission system operator, by Elia. That technical regulation (a KB) states in Article 312 that a rescue code must be drawn up by Elia. In the event of a need, it should also be possible to switch off and a switch-off plan should be drawn up for this purpose. The closure plan, as has so often been published in the press, is the Ministerial Decision of 3 June 2005. I would like to stress that the exit plan is a ministerial decision. The discussions in the press are actually very often about the implementation of the exit plan, namely the streets, the posts and the cartography. The switch-off plan shall be adopted by the Minister on a proposal from the transmission system operator. This reflects the role of the CREG. The CREG has played a one-off role in this. In 2003, the CREG issued an opinion on the exit plan. At that time, the CREG concluded that the exit plan was in conformity with the technical regulation. In short, the role of the CREG in the Exit Plan is very minimal, namely to give advice on the Ministerial Decision. Now I give the floor to Laurent Jacquet.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u4	Madam President, geachte leden van de commissie, ladies and gentlemen in here, as the director of awards at CREG, I will present to you the result of the permanent monitoring that we are carrying out. We will see it from two angles: prices at stock exchanges (the wholesale market in Belgium) and prices at consumer level, whether residential, SME or industrial.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u5	Let's start with wholesale prices. Here we have a graph that relates to the Belpex stock exchange, the day-ahead market, a short-term market for the delivery of electricity the next day. On the right side of the chart, in 2014 there was a first price increase on Belpex, which coincided with the announcement of the shutdown of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors. Then prices fell. There was a further increase in August, when we read in the press that the Doel 4 reactor will be shut down. In concrete terms, if you look at the left side of the chart, you see that price levels are relatively reasonable compared to what has been known in the past, particularly in the winter of 2012-2013, following the judgment of Doel 3 and Tihange 2. The first conclusion was that the day-ahead market reacted to the shutdown of nuclear reactors in a completely contained manner. We see on the transparent following a zoom over the month of August. You read in the different blue rectangles the different events that are reported in the press and the reactions of the market. We can see that at each ad, the price is moving, but as we have seen in the first graph, it remains within a limit of around 40 euros per MWh. The next transparent takes over the forward market. We are talking not about the supply of electricity in the very short term, the next day or during the day, we are talking about more distant horizons of time, namely four curves. The graph probably looks rough but you will see that we will soon find ourselves there. I suggest you start with the first curve, blue, which represents the M+1 price. We are talking about the price of electricity for delivery in the following month. What do we see? When you look at the right of the chart, for 2014 prices, you see an increase that starts in July and continues. If you look a little further back in time, you also note this increase in 2013 and 2012. We are therefore faced with a classic seasonal phenomenon of the market, which anticipates the increase in demand for electricity in autumn and winter. The price is increasing naturally. So there's nothing unusual this year, except the fact that the increase is a little more important. The slope of the right is slightly higher, reflecting a greater market reaction. The second curve represents the Q+1 price – the quarter – in other words for the coming quarter. There is always the seasonal effect in July, but this year it continues a little more significantly with Doel 4's judgment in August. The green and purple curves correspond to the Y+1 and Y+2 prices for electricity to be delivered in one year and in two years. It is clear from this graph that there is a more sustained increase than in other years. The first, from April onwards (Doel 3 and Tihange 2) and then, from August onwards, for Doel 4's judgment. Let us now zoom in on August. The four curves are found in more detail, day by day. There are upward developments that coincide with the announcement of nuclear reactor shutdowns.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u6	What does the red curve represent?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u7	Q+1, that's the next quarter. The blue corresponds to the following month, the red corresponds to the following quarter, the green corresponds to the following year and the purple corresponds to the situation in two years. The next graph is the last one for wholesale markets. This is the price difference between the Y+1 prize in Belgium and the exchanges in neighbouring countries. This is the Y+1 price for electricity delivery the next year. It is a reference very often used in the market. We can see that the price in Belgium – that is the blue curve above – is at a significantly higher level than in neighbouring countries. In the Netherlands, you have the orange curve, which is just below that of Belgium. Green is Germany, which is really down, in a fairly significant way. We find France, in blue, with relatively constant prices. What explains the divergence of these prices, knowing that before mid-2012, prices on the left side of the chart were relatively converging, which were coupled? There is a first effect – we have isolated three of them, basically, that are interdependent. The first effect is the importance of supply in relation to demand. When you are in a country with a supply of electricity and a production that is reduced, limited, necessarily this will have an upward impact on the price. Secondly, a little more technical, it is the constitution in the country concerned of the production stock. As we can see here, we have four substantially different parks. Let's start with Germany. Germany has a fleet which is currently mainly based on the price of coal - from power plants to coal - with a coal price on the markets which is quite low. Since, alongside coal, there is also a lot of renewables in Germany, which produces at a zero marginal cost, we find ourselves with this relatively low curve for prices in Germany. The park in France is mainly based on nuclear capacity. We'll find a fairly constant price curve. The curve in the Netherlands is higher because their fleet is made up of more gas-fired power stations, with gas having a higher price level compared to coal in recent months and years. This explains why the Netherlands is at a higher level. Finally, above, we find the curve of Belgium, which usually has a nuclear fleet as the main source of production, but, with the shutdown of reactors, gas-fired power plants must compensate. There is therefore a trend towards higher prices in Belgium. This gives me the opportunity to get to the third element, which explains the price differences. This is the interconnection capacity. You see that from mid-2012, the curves begin to diverge. We really have a price decoupling. This means that prior to this period, one was in a situation where the interconnection capacity between countries allowed low-cost current, for example from Germany, to meet demand in countries such as the Netherlands, Belgium and, to a lesser extent, France. In concrete terms, there is a decoupling from mid-2012. This means that from then on, the interconnection capacity is no longer sufficient to cover all the electricity needs, at every moment, of the different countries, and so at some point, prices are decoupled. That's for the wholesale market. Let us now move on to the other side of the barrier, on consumers' bills. We're going to analyze this in two ways. First in the short term and then in the medium and long term. Let's start for small customers, i.e. SMEs and residential people. For the first types of contracts, fixed-price contracts, as the price is determined for a period of between 1 and 3 years, this price is fixed and therefore there is no impact of the increase in prices on the stock exchange. For new fixed contracts to be proposed in the coming months, a price increase can be expected in proportion to what is found in wholesale markets. In other words, in order to set their prices, suppliers take the forward market as a reference with a time period that corresponds to the duration of supply to the customer and they add to that price, a risk premium that is supposed to cover them if ever the electricity they should produce or buy at that time is more expensive than what the market had estimated. The following slide relates to variable price contracts. In concrete terms, there has been no impact to date on current contracts. Why? Because these variable contracts are indexed to wholesale prices that cover fairly long periods in the past. For example, the two largest market players, Electrabel Customer Solutions (ECS) and Luminus have price indexes that cover up to two years. In other words, the increases noted in recent months are quite diluted, smoothed by the average effect on these large periods. In concrete terms, during the next indexations, on 1 October and 1 January – as you know, with the safety net, there is quarterly indexing – we will see what suppliers will introduce as files to the CREG. But, according to our internal calculations, we shouldn't be seeing any significant increases. The following transparency relates to the medium- and long-term impact. It will depend on the duration of the shutdown of nuclear reactors. The effects can be summarized as being of three types. The first is the law of supply and demand: if supply declines, the price is necessarily pushed upwards. The second concerns the influence of fuel prices. Behind the electricity, there are gas and coal power plants. The price of these fuels may indirectly influence the price of electricity. On the next transparent, we find the last element, which is the independence of Belgium from imports, but also from interconnection capacities and, finally, from the availability of production in neighbouring countries. Let us now turn to another category of customers, industrialists. In concrete terms, there are three categories of contracts with large industrialists. The first is based on a fixed price and concerns about 10% of cases. As with SMEs and residential customers, prices are fixed for specific durations. There will be no impact on current contracts. For those that will be concluded in the coming months, a price increase can be expected that will be proportional to what has been seen in wholesale markets for forward prices. The second category of contracts is based on day-ahead prices – thus on Belpex. There are relatively few of these: about 10 per cent. There, the impact is direct, since you saw earlier the price on Belpex that was increasing. However, as the rise of the latter is relatively contained, it can be concluded that the impact to date would be limited. The last type of contract is the most important. Indeed, 80% of contracts with industrialists are fixed on the basis of forward markets – hence the Endex stock exchange. These are "click" contracts. This means that the customer must click on current prices – for the month, quarter or year. It is this price that will determine the future pricing. In other words, for the majority of contracts, we click in 2014 and that will determine the price that will be charged in 2015. Since the majority of these contracts are concluded on an annual basis, the impact will be very limited. For "click-on" contracts, which are calculated on monthly or quarterly indices, by the end of the year they will continue to evolve. The biggest impact will be for 2015 as part of the annual contracts, but for all the clicks that have been made after April 2014 since it is from that time that there is an increase in prices. I come to the conclusion of this chapter. First, the day-ahead market reacted to nuclear shutdowns but in a relatively contained manner. Second, the forward market reacted a little more strongly. Thirdly, we will see in the short term that the increases are not very large but that they could, in the coming quarters, be more sensitive if the stops continue. Supply and demand will play a role, but also fuel prices, interconnection capacity, but also climate influences in this rather complex equation of fixing the price of electricity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u8	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am responsible for the technical functioning of the markets. Following the unavailability of Objective 3 and Tihange 2 at the end of March, we decided to study the Belgian wholesale market during power scarcity and power shortage. That study was recently completed and will soon be published on our website. However, I would like to make a number of recommendations already contained in that study. Firstly, a significant part of this security of supply can be provided by a well-functioning market and efficient network management. This means that proper price incentives must be given to market actors and the system operator must give the market as much interconnection capacity as possible. If certain changes are to be made to the market model and if certain market rules need to be changed, we are in favour of a gradual approach so that market players can adapt to the new context. The wholesale market as we now know it is an energy-only market, which means that only electric energy can be traded, so it is not about trading production capacity. It is that market that can largely guarantee security of supply, but as with almost all markets, there are also imperfections in the wholesale energy market. These imperfections need to be addressed as far as possible, but even if all these imperfections were to be addressed, it is still difficult to predict whether that market can fully provide security of supply. So we need a safety net and the strategic reserves have been developed for that. Those strategic reserves are a form of capacity fee, i.e. certain units that want to disappear from the market, are nevertheless kept in the system by a reservation to have that capacity available. It will then be possible to assess annually whether these strategic reserves are still needed and, if so, how many of these volumes are still needed. If there is a risk that the wholesale market, the energy-only market, will not provide security of supply, the strategic reserves may intervene to provide that security of supply. In this way, we are choosing a mixed model, whereby, on the one hand, we want to give the energy-only market as much space as possible to provide security of supply and, on the other hand, to provide a safety net, namely the strategic reserves, for when that energy-only market does not meet. Now, how can we allow the market to play as much as possible its role in security of supply? There are two tracks to follow there. On the one hand, the track is aimed at ordinary market actors such as producers, consumers, suppliers and balance-holders, but also fairly recently the aggregators. This is a new type of player seeking flexibility from smaller players, especially in distribution networks, and then aggregating and offering on the market. On the other hand, there's the network manager. Two tracks, the ordinary market actors and the network operator. Those ordinary market actors should be given as many fair price incentives as possible. A measure has already been taken to this end, in particular the rate of EUR 4 500 per megawatt hour in the event of activation of strategic reserves in the event of structural deficit. I would like to say a little more about the EUR 4 500. Yesterday, this was compared to the normal market price, about 100 times more than the normal market price, as FEBEG also said. That is true, but that price should not be compared with the normal wholesale price, but with the wholesale price quoted when the market is no longer able to meet or when the market has reached its limit. That price limit on the market is EUR 3 000 per megawattage and that EUR 4 500 should therefore be seen in comparison with that. Why? Because, on the one hand, there is the energy-only market, which must do its job as much as possible, and, on the other hand, the strategic reserves, which are outside. It is laid down by law that they interfere as little as possible with the normal functioning of the market. This means that the strategic reserves for the market actors must not be a valid alternative. This means that when a market actor goes into imbalance and de facto resorts to those strategic reserves, he has to pay a price higher than that EUR 3 000 per megawatt hour. If that were not the case, the market actor could decide not to buy. Therefore, should the price be at or below EUR 2 000/MWh, the market actor could decide not to buy his energy on the market, but to wait until the real time and then activate the strategic reserves and pay a price below the maximum price on the energy market. It could be decided to simply set the price at EUR 3 000, but the current rules of operation for strategic reserves say that the activation of a strategic reserve should only be possible when this is really necessary. Therefore, it may also be that the activation that can be done in day ahead is cancelled during the day, so that that 4 500 euros is not valid. It is therefore necessary to have an imbalance rate, if strategic reserves are correctly activated, which is significantly higher than the maximum price on the wholesale market, i.e. EUR 3 000. In consultation with Elia and the CREG and the market participants, which was also discussed in Elia's Users Group, this 4 500 euro was proposed by Elia and approved by the CREG. It is important to note that this EUR 4 500 is necessary to achieve the proper functioning of these strategic reserves, i.e. to minimise interference with the wholesale market. An additional advantage is that it also provides a good price incentive for market players to balance themselves, so that that market will provide security of supply itself as much as possible. There is another aspect that we want to strive for. Now much is said about shutdown, that is something involuntary, that is for the zones in which it is switched off, even not very selective or not very selective. We would like to take this as far as possible to a voluntary cut-off, which is therefore selective. As much power as possible is an evolution that we must certainly do. A second track is the network manager. The system operator shall provide the market with as much interconnection capacity as possible. Elia has put forward 3,500 megawatts of commercial import capacity. For the CREG, this is not a priori a guarantee of optimal use of interconnection. Let me explain this a little bit later. The CREG also wishes Elia to consider granting additional capacity on the intraday basis on a daily basis. Some explanation of the import capacity of 3 500 megawatts. Belgium has two commercial electric borders, one with France and one with the Netherlands. An interconnection consists of different airlines. On the north border there are cross-control transformers. These are transformers with which the system operator can influence the flows flowing through the interconnection. The table shows the airways forming the two interconnections. With France, that's five airlines. To have safe grid management, the net must always be able to transport the currents, even if one grid element falls out unexpectedly. If a large grid element fails, the real currents that then exist must still be able to be transported. That is the so-called N minus 1 criterion. For France there is a total capacity of 5 451 megawatts. When the largest element falls out, one falls back on a theoretical N minus 1 capacity of about 3 900 megawatts. For the Netherlands, the situation is a little more complex. There are four airlines, but on the two airlines from Zandvliet there is one PST, so one of the cross-control transformers. In total, there are three. If we lose one, we're at a capacity of 2 750 megawatts. That is the N minus 1 criterion for the Dutch border. The French and Dutch borders therefore have 3 900 and 2 750 megawatt nominal physical N minus 1 capacity respectively. I call that nominal, because negative temperatures in winter can have a positive impact. The colder it is, the better the airlines can cool, allowing more capacity to be transported and that effect can bring about up to 15% added value. If I add up that 3 900 megawatts and 2 750 megawatts, I'll add up over 6,000 megawatts. However, Elia only puts 3 500 megawatts of interconnection capacity forward for the day-ahead market. For us, this is not a prior guarantee of optimal use, but there are situations where we can accept that this level of capacity is being given. Let me explain that. That capacity must be given in advance to the market; Elia must make that calculation in advance. Only at the moment itself, in real time, can one know how much power passes through it. In certain situations it is possible that the electricity comes entirely from the north, from the Netherlands, or from the south, from France. To illustrate that, I'll show you the next figure. On the horizontal axis is the physical flow from the Netherlands to Belgium in megawatt. On the vertical axis is the physical flow as measured from France to Belgium. The points on the chart are all the hours on which electricity was imported from both commercial borders until the end of August 2014, so for the past eight months. The brown sloping line, on which three points are indicated, shows all combinations where a total of 3,500 megawatts are introduced to Belgium. When we're in point A, that 3,500 megawatt comes entirely from France. We can also be in point B and then that 3 500 megawatt comes completely from the north, from the Netherlands. The two red lines on the graph, one vertical and the other horizontal, show the N minus 1 physical capacity on the two boundaries. The vertical red line stands at 2 750 megawatts for the Dutch border. When we take a point beyond that vertical line, we are basically no longer in a safe situation, at least if that is the case for a long time. Point B therefore represents a situation which can be described as non-safe. If the limit of 3 500 megawatts is to be maintained, the capacity must be reduced at least to point C. Now Kirchhoff's physical laws come into play. Even if all capacity were imported from the north, for example, if the energy exchange between the Netherlands and Belgium was 3,500 megawatts, this whole capacity would not be effective through interconnection with the Netherlands. There would also be a part through Germany and France, and thus through the south, to Belgium. This is about 20 % or 25 %. This depends on the topology of the grid and the place where the energy is actually produced and consumed. However, that is the rule of thumb. I believe that about 21% is going through Germany and France. Even if the entire 3 500 megawatts are taken from the north, only 2 700 megawatts still run through the north border. In cases where capacity can reasonably be expected to come entirely from the north, 3 500 megawatts is a justified restriction imposed by Elijah on the day-ahead market. Elia has to make that calculation daily and can't just push 3 500 megawatts forward for the entire winter. This limitation may apply throughout the winter, but it must be justified by Elijah on a daily basis. So much for my first point on the day-ahead market. Let us now see what happens after the day market, which stops at 12 o'clock the day before. At that time, network operators throughout Europe have more information. They know, firstly, the positions taken on the daily market and they know how much each price zone wants to import or export net, on the basis of day-ahead energy exchanges. This gives them additional information on how the flows can be distributed via the north border and the south border. Secondly, reality is closer, which means that the predictions of intermittent production and of expected demand become more accurate. In short, after the end of the day market, network operators have more and more accurate information at their disposal, which in principle means that they need to take less safety margins. On the basis of the new information, they should consider whether they provide additional capacity to the intraday market, which can contribute to security of supply. One final point is about what happens when it is effectively switched off. Here is a schematic and illustration of how that can happen. So it is not the case that when a balancer goes into imbalance, it is immediately switched off, that is not the case at all. First the strategic reserves are activated, for about 850 megawatts. If these are not enough, Elia still has balancing reserves at her disposal, in this case 800 megawatts are spoken of, but that may vary. And it is only then, if the market already has an imbalance of 1 650 megawatts and if that is not enough and the market is even more unbalanced, that is 2 350 megawatts, which is switched off. But at that point, the market is already in very serious imbalance and the market already has to pay the price incentive or the imbalance rate of EUR 4 500 for the whole part of 1 650 megawatts. If there is a switch, in the event of scarcity, then the market already has a great imbalance.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u9	I would like to say a word about contracts and liability. Yesterday we heard many questions on this subject. I will not teach you anything by telling you that this is an extremely complex issue because it is linked to the number of interlocutors in the chain up to the end consumer and to the fact that between each of these actors there are different contracts. This chain is extremely long with contracts of a different nature between operators. In fact, there are two types of contracts. On the one hand, the so-called regulated contracts are approved by CREG. They're very limited. There are three types of so-called regulated contracts: ARP contracts, connecting contracts and access contracts. Next to these regulated contracts, there are all the other contracts, which will be called unregulated contracts. In both cases, these contracts generally provide for limitation clauses of liability or so-called force majeure clauses. These are standard clauses in contracts, including regulated contracts. Force majeure clauses are common in the energy sector and, in general, they detail precisely the cases of force majeure that are allowed and the consequences for the contract. In the end, it is the judge or, in the case of arbitration, the arbitral bodies that will decide the scope of the force majeure clauses and what they cover, unless there is an agreement between the parties on the basis of the contract that has been established. If a fact arises, whether it is a failure, a failure of maintenance or foresight in the context of a reasonable management – the concept of reasonable management can already be interpreted – of an operator of any kind, the operator will not be able to invoke it to exonerate himself from his own responsibility on the basis of a force majeure. On the other hand, the other players in the chain, up to the end consumer, if they are impacted, will be able to take advantage of this event vis-à-vis their co-contractors and will also be able to turn against the author of the fault – if it is established – to obtain redress. If I have to sum up the situation, whoever has a disability, a lack of maintenance, cannot invoke the force majeure clause, but that does not mean that not everyone else in the chain can use it. We realize that the notion of force majeure in energy law is, in the chain, something extremely relative dependent on where you are in the chain. It cannot be said that the case of force majeure applies to the whole chain in an equivalent way. Another new subtlety is the so-called "change of circumstances" clause2, which could also be used. These are clauses that are generally present in energy contracts concluded in the medium and long term. These are the so-called 2hardship 2 clauses. In fact, these are contracts that have been entered into at some point in these specific circumstances. If the circumstances in which these contracts were entered into have changed, then this clause provides that the contract is no longer or rather, I would say that it may upset the terms of the contract. If the clause is present and mentioned, it may indeed change the responsibilities of the contractors who have signed the contract. This, just to tell you how complex it is and also draw your attention to the fact that the CREG certainly has information on regulated contracts. However, it does not have the competence to interfere with other types of contracts and certainly not to determine liability or compensation mechanisms, including in the context of extra-contractual responsibilities. Does that mean that the CREG does not want to take care of anything? That's not what I just said. It has some of the information, certainly through the regulated contracts in which there are such clauses. This will need to be analysed. I just wanted to say to Messrs. and Members of Parliament, whom we are fully prepared to participate in a working group to analyse together, together with market players, the contracts that are concluded across the chain, since we have only a small part of the information in relation to the complete chain. So this is the answer to the question that was put to us last night. I think that this should be the subject of a working group, if possible. It is possible that it may be found in one way or another that this must be the subject of a legislative amendment. It should be the public authority which takes the initiative of this working group and, of course, the CREG will make available the information available to it in relation to the types of contracts it approves and its general expertise, in this legal understanding. In conclusion, CREG will play a limited role in the relief plan, as long as there is agreement on the relief plan, namely the 2005 Ministerial Order. Let's avoid any vocabulary problems, that's the release plan, execution is still something else. Secondly, as far as price impact is concerned, it depends on the type of customer, the type of contract and, above all, the time that this situation persists. The less time it will last, the less price impact it will have. Recently, I stress the crucial role that all market players must play in security of supply. I do not point anyone in particular, but rather everyone: ARPs, DSOs, TSOs, suppliers, and consumers who can also be active in security of supply. Clearly, the market needs to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u10	I thank CREG for the information provided and the slides presented. The floor is open to Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u11	I would like to thank the lady and gentlemen of the CREG for the presentation. It was enlightening to get an insight into the market mechanisms behind it. They are often not sufficiently highlighted here when we talk about energy materials. However, it raises a number of specific questions. A first question concerns interconnection. We have indeed heard about the 3 500 megawatts and also about the situations in which that can be higher. A number of sources say that this can also be structuralally above the 3 500. Occasionally our interconnections are called a highway with more unlucky lanes than lanes. Is that image correct or is it not an option to structurally tap into that reserve? Secondly, we have talked about N minus 1 for the Netherlands-Belgium and Belgium-France. Does the N minus 1 between Germany and France play a role in this? If we assume that Elia assumes that the bulk of the accessible capacity is in the north, does that capacity between Germany and France play a significant role in allowing the south to import remaining capacity from the Netherlands or from the north of Germany? It seems interesting to me to go into that. As far as the strategic reserve is concerned, we know that its deployment is necessary in the short term and that many power stations will be decommissioned in the coming years and their production will possibly be added to the strategic reserve. Can you outline the impact on the prices of that strategic reserve when we address it in larger volumes and for several hours? I understand that at the time we use that power, which is traded on the market at EUR 3 500 per megawatt hour. That imbalance rate is another matter, but the EUR 3 500 per megawatt hour is at those prices. Where does the proceeds end up? What effect does this have on the prices that we have to expect and which, above all, users will have to pay in the longer term at all levels? We have also talked about the energy only capacity mechanism, but at the same time the French and Germans are preparing a system in the area of a real capacity mechanism, a capacity market. Should we go there too, or are we better off with the strategic reserve, which we then have to pump up to a certain volume? How does that play together? After all, I understand that in France we are also looking at the capacity in Belgium to participate in the capacity market and thus possibly contract in our country on electricity that we need ourselves, which could lead to double counting. We have to look at that. Elia has been able to give us a long-term picture of the capacity for the next two winters. That seems very limited to us. We know that we have to count five to seven years before a plant runs after an investment decision. If we can only look into the future for two years, we'll be in a bit of a fog. How does the CREG look at that? Is there a need to look further ahead in terms of capacity? Or is this feasible with today's situation? Finally, I have a question about market coupling and prices. As long as there is no congestion on the interconnections, foreign prices ensure that our prices are adjusted downwards or upwards. At the same time, we know that there are concerns about security of supply in Germany from 2017. The fact that France is working with the capacity market system from next year is not because the country would have too much power in winter. What effects should we expect from this? Does that mean that the development we have now seen may be a trend for the next few years? Or is that less clear to say?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u12	Madam President, Mr President, I shall begin with the end of the speech. You have clarified the role of CREG in terms of compensation. This is a subject on which my colleague David Clarinval has often insisted at previous hearings. The role of CREG is not to determine allowances or responsibilities. On the other hand, we are very sensitive to the fact that you are ready to create with us a think tank on this issue, which will certainly arise and interest many people. I had a question about the strategic reserve. Will it be sufficient, in your opinion, to deal with a shortage? As far as interconnectivity is concerned, are you sure that the country is sufficiently armed? More specifically, with regard to Slide 25, you seem to question what Elia said about imports from the Netherlands and France. I also have a reflection on the first slide. We've seen the evolution of electricity prices. Yesterday, during the hearings, a profit margin of 0.5% of turnover was mentioned. With such volatile prices, I find it difficult to understand how one can define any margin. As far as price stability is concerned, you seem to say that they would be more or less stable with probably a small increase next year. I do not share your optimism, especially since we do not yet know where Doel 2, Doel 3, Tihange 3 and Doel 4 will be next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u13	Mr President, I would like to thank the speakers sincerely for their presence and for their very thorough explanation. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit that, when I saw on the agenda that the CREG came to talk about security of supply, I wondered what the role of the CREG was in this matter. That wasn't clear to me. You have now explained this and said that your role, your legal competence, is quite limited in terms of security of supply and the exit plan. It was from 2003 that you gave an opinion on the ministerial decision. Of course you have a lot of expertise and you can also voluntarily make your knowledge available and provide advice. Because it was in 2003, I wonder if you have volunteered to provide expertise? In a slide you report that you can also participate in working groups. Which working groups did you actively participate in to identify security of supply and what advice did you give? For example, you have no legal authority to give advice on the cabins that will be switched off. There is now a lot of swell in some municipalities and cities, for example in Ghent. Although you do not have legal competence, can you give your opinion voluntarily or is that totally excluded? Now you are not involved, and I would like to make that clear. You do, however, have a legal competence with regard to the strategic reserve. I have a number of questions about that. That strategic reserve is very important for our short-term security of supply. That procedure is currently under way. Two plants have announced their desire to join this strategic reserve. On 25 July, the CREG received a report from Elia concerning those tenders. According to the transitional calendar, the CREG should issue an opinion by 31 August indicating whether or not the prices of those tenders are manifestly unreasonable. That was the timing and I would have liked to know whether that timing has been respected. Have you already delivered an opinion and can you explain that opinion, or should you not? If not, we will hear the content of that opinion later, but it is very important to know whether the strategic reserve can be launched on 1 November and that deadline is coming up pretty soon. That date is important in order to get it started. The following is also not clear to me about this strategic reserve. Normally it is committed for three years, but in your powerpoint presentation you say that Elia should actually re-evaluate each year whether a strategic reserve should be set up. Does this mean that the bids now in the strategic reserve may be found unnecessary and discontinued next year, or will the tenders now submitted be valid for three years anyway, with a decision to add to them next year? Can these contracts be terminated or not within three years? I would also like more specific information on this. I also had a question about the strategic reserve. There's only 850 megawatts. You say that another possible path is more demand-driven, which we have already heard from several speakers. We need to pay more attention to more demand management. What's your vision on that? What is the potential in terms of demand response to ensure our security of supply? You have explained a lot about the import capacity of 3 500 megawatts. I understand that this can be purely physical, but safety margins must be taken into account. You have tried to indicate this on the basis of a graph. Sometimes it can be higher, sometimes it can be lower. Elia has to decide every day how much that can be. It is not immediately clear to me which factors play a role in increasing or reducing this import capacity. Could you clarify that for a moment, because that has escaped me a little bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u14	Mr President, I would like to address the problem of demand management. To the extent that one succeeds in convincing companies to insert unset power, we can, of course, reduce the risk of shutdown. Demand management is provided for in the strategic reserve of 100 megawatts. The tender issued for this purpose has produced only 100 megawatts of demand management, in addition to the 750 megawatts provided by the two gas plants. Then we still have a potential of 400 megawatts. After all, it was estimated that one could go up to 500 megawatts. What are the thresholds to have more switching power? How come that tender only yielded 100 megawatts at the high voltage transmission level? A second question concerns the level of the distribution network. If the trend of the US, which is already far beyond demand control, were to continue, there would be a potential of 500 megawatts at the level of the distribution network. What's your assessment of the issue? I did indeed hear and read that FEBEG was talking yesterday about demand management and power switching, which could reach 2 000 megawatts. Indeed, this is more than the 100 megawatts that are now provided for in the framework of the strategic reserve, part of demand management. I know there's 250 megawatts next to the balance. So everything together makes that 350 megawatts so far. FEBEG says that much more is possible. The questions are the following. Firstly, what are the thresholds for putting more switchable power on the grid? Secondly, should the market play a full role in this respect, the aggregators, who themselves play a role, or should the network operator possibly play a role there? Of course, it is not always known whether the market actually provides certainty or whether the market provides sufficient capacity. Rumors in the market tell me that today the aggregators would have collected around 600 megawatts in our country. Is that number correct or can't it be confirmed?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank you for your very clear statement and your presence here for two consecutive days, since you were unable to attend yesterday. Many questions have already been asked, I try not to repeat. I would like to start with what you have said about your competence in relation to the shutdown plan and everything that has to do with it. Of course, that authority of yours is limited and you have only given advice. It's in line with the law, so it's good for us. I am sorry that I come back to the fact that many fellow Members have asked or almost demanded in committee, which is precisely the criteria of the exit plan. I do not need to repeat that there is a problem for Ghent and that, after all the hearings we have had here, we still do not understand why, for example, the port of Ghent is in it. Do you think that the relevant legislation should contain more precise provisions or do you think that the text can remain so vague? A second case is the evaluation. Should we not check that regularly and should the CREG not be involved? Another question concerns interconnection. If I understand the slide correctly, you say that until mid-2012 the evolution of prices within that interconnection was quite similar. If it isn't right, you'll have to improve me, but that's the difference between prices. Wouldn't it be better to look at how interconnection can be improved? In this way, we could reduce price fluctuations between countries. I am also looking forward to the study you have announced to see the price evolution in the event of a possible power shortage. I very much welcome your statement on the imbalance rate. You have precisely determined how to get that EUR 4 500. It doesn't just fall out of the sky, but it's because the market doesn't work at that time that price is being pushed forward. This is an important detail, which was interpreted and explained quite differently by some speakers during the previous hearings. As regards import capacity, it has already been said that higher figures are clearly possible, especially as regards imports from the Netherlands. I honestly do not understand the technical explanation why that would not be possible. As far as responsibility is concerned, after the many hearings, it is clear here that it will become a legal blur between many actors. You ended by saying that everyone must now accept their responsibility so that there is no need to switch off. I agree. However, we must also dare to say that in the past not everyone has assumed their responsibilities. We are now standing where we stand because a number of things are not working. Certain producers cannot honour the contracts they have concluded because nuclear capacity is in difficulty. The market must function, but we are all aware that the market is not functioning. Everyone must accept their responsibility to solve the problem, but I do not agree that everyone is responsible for the failure of the market today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u16	I thank all four stakeholders for the quality and accuracy of their intervention. It is not because we still have questions to ask that we cannot judge their report positively. Our debates are sometimes very technical, but so important in view of the stakes involved. First of all, I will make a point from your slide 16: the conclusion that can be drawn from it is clear, since prices are pushed upwards by the decrease in the availability of production units. It is clear that the responsibility of those who are not or who are unlikely to be able to meet their commitment to placing these units on the market is great. Although this is not a direct and contractual liability, their indirect liability for the price is clear. Then I tried to find on your site the opinion you gave about the 2003 Ministerial Order. However, the opinions are only published from 2004 onwards. Could you send us a copy, even if you have provided us with the essentials? I read the prior opinions in the 2005 Ministerial Order, but I did not find the 2003 Ministerial Order. I would like to ask you a question about your role, which you say is limited. You have to give an opinion on the release plan – as you did in 2003. Did you do so about the document – on the internal backup procedure – that I requested and that you asked Elia? You have indicated in square brackets that the discharge plan set out in the ministerial judgment is based on a few principles, but that the real plan is contained in this internal procedure that we still do not have. I hope we get it soon. My question is whether you have given an opinion. I note that you are already saying no, but you will say that earlier for the report. Responsibility is the central issue that we were dealing with yesterday and that is also the issue of compensation. I want to say – but you will correct me if I'm wrong – that, contrary to the impression that could emerge, since everyone was turning away the zwarte piet, any responsibility fainting in the stratosphere, you tell us that the problem is complex, but that it is not that one cannot designate a responsible person. We will have to work in concrete terms according to the different contracts. But today's message is more reassuring from this point of view than the one we heard yesterday. They were other actors, of course, they were trying to tell us that it is a responsibility that is so diffuse that we will never be able to see the clear elements of responsibility. I have to tell you, I didn't understand everything. I would like to receive a written document setting out the legal framework that you outlined, in which responsibilities can already be analysed. It is not obvious to follow your oral reasoning about the framework of responsibilities. I took notes on the flight and I will have heard the report. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the services that make us follow the report every day. I would like to ask you to write down your legal reasoning on this subject, with the current limitations. I appreciate your call for a working group. I think we need to relay it to the Secretary of State. It is fundamental that all can be around the same table to analyze the same data, even if they do not agree after analyzing them. Have you ever been involved in any way in meetings to consider it? Yesterday, we received a kind of call from stakeholders to organize something, as if nothing was being done about it. I come to a question about the real import capacity. You are quite right to say that this is indeed an import capacity – 3500 MW – and not a guarantee. However, in your numerical assessment of this capacity, there is a strong question, not to say anything else, about the figure given by Elia, that is, 3500 MW. It's fundamental. It is, of course, on this basis that measures of the type of discharge may have to be taken. Suffice it to say that it is necessary to be certain that there is nothing hidden in a somewhat complex calculation, which could be brought to light with your help. In order to prepare this committee, I went back to the latest elements on the CREG website, namely the opinion you gave on 22 May 2014 on the most recent proposal by Elias on this subject. Tell me if I'm wrong, but you felt that Elia's proposal was not in line with the legal framework. It's not an annoyance, especially when you remember retroacts. Already in 2010, the CREG had submitted an opinion to this effect, which Elia had criticized in court. The Court of Appeal then rejected each of the elements highlighted by Elia. Since 2010, this discussion has been pending. Elia submitted a new proposal and on 22 May you said that it was still not in conformity with the legal framework. The sharpness of the current energy situation makes it clear that this is the front page, and I would like us to go further than simply seeing this divergence. I would like to try to consider with you a way out. In your opinion, you gave Elia a year to correct and submit a plan. But in view of the situation we are in, is there no need to ask Elia to speed things up? I could have mentioned it with them, but then I worked on it. You raised the problem in May, and it's almost October. There may be a way to see with them an acceleration of the process, especially since you had set conditions in your May opinion. You set eight conditions to be able to say okay temporarily. These eight conditions were to be met by 15 August. We are in September and my question, beyond the reasoning I have developed here, is whether, yes or no, Elia met these eight conditions for August 15 and whether there is a way to have the elements in connection with that. When we take some excerpts from your May opinion, it's not sad. "The method of calculating the capacity proposed at the Belgian borders favours trade included in the basic scenario, i.e. internal trade, which is de facto accepted, as opposed to cross-border trade which is limited ex ante at the borders". Therefore, CREG considers that the proposed method discriminates cross-border trade within the region. In favour of internal trade, import capacity has not been optimized. This is still a serious consequence. In fact, it led to a decision on a discharge, although it might have been useless if the intern had been optimised with the outsider. There are words that are even harder. The CREG does not include a limitation to 3,000 MWh of Belgium's import capacity for reasons related to the stability dynamics of the system. She's not justified. I would also like to see with you the estimate that you think can be taken into account. In paragraph 86 of your opinion, I read that CREG recalls that "in accordance with the development plans of the Belgian network 2003-2010 and 2005-2012 and the investments that have been made accordingly, Belgium should be able to import 3,700 MWh under normal conditions from 2008". It's dated! Studies have also been undertaken by Elia to increase this import capacity to 4,700 MWh. Is that the figure we could already use or is it too early? What figure can we use according to your methodology? Your answer could help us manage import capacity as best we can, although, I repeat, it remains a capacity. We have no guarantee in this regard. However, between 3,500 and 4,700, there is a margin that could be useful. In this regard, I return to your transparency 23. I don't see how you move from total to theoretical total n-1. Is this calculation your own or is it a calculation of Elias? I would like you to re-explain your calculation methodology and the 4,700 MWh I was talking about. You also pleaded for Elia to present you with a new proposal on August 15th for intraday. What's the situation? Similarly, I would like to know what is the status of the capacity-building plan that you referred to on page 36 of paragraph 7 of your opinion. This was one of the conditions for progress. If the investment plan was filed on August 15, can a copy be received? This is for the 3,500 MW component. I would also like to know whether the CREG should give an opinion on the probabilistic estimate. We are no longer in the capacity, i.e. the 3,500 MW. It is in the calculation that leads to a risk of 20 days of discharge for 2 or 3 hours or 30 to 40 days maximum 4 hours in the worst situations. What is your own estimate of this? If you didn't have to estimate it, it's obviously a little tricky to do it in the session. Does CREG not have a role to play in the future, as these figures are used to regulate the organisation of discharge and avoid blackout. I come to a final point in connection with your memorandum, which is also very interesting and which also refers to a whole series of other subjects on which I do not come back. We will have the opportunity to do so under the next government. With regard to the point related to the reinforced framework when there is a temporary or final closure announcement, could you please indicate your progress? Do you already have any concrete proposals to make so as not to be faced with operators – I will not mention any – who would be tempted to say, "I close power plants because the legal framework that the CREG calls for, and I fully agree with it on this point, is not yet in place?" Given the current situation, we are a little caught up in the short term and in the urgency. In view of the shortage in which one is in, it is clear that this raises prices, which may be of interest to some. Maybe there are no bad intentions. Nevertheless, has progress been made on this point?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u17	Mr. Chair, Madam Chair, I thank the representatives of CREG for being so clear. Their presentations have in any case the merit of not having the language of wood, as was often our impression at yesterday's hearings. I am a little bouncing on what the previous speaker just mentioned. Compared to 3,500 MW, you clearly state on your slide 22 that the system operator must offer as much interconnection capacity as possible to the market. You say that 3,500 MW is not enough and that could be more. In your opinion, for what reasons, beyond the technical problems raised in their document I have just checked, does Elia not have the ability to propose more? I agree that, in the immediate future, there are technical reasons but, already in 2012, alarm bells are being drawn as a result of a risk of shortage. Why is there not, on the part of Elias, a greater awareness of possible investments? In your opinion, what are the reasons why Elia does not propose something beyond 3,500 MW? On the other hand, you mentioned figures. Yesterday, I did not get an answer to my quantitative questions on import and strategic reserve – in the short, medium and long term. I feel like we're constantly getting different numbers. Thus, a representative of the Febeg told us that there was no problem of balance. Similarly, the information on capabilities for this winter varies constantly. That's what I call the short term. The medium term is the following two winters. Public procurement for the construction of new power plants will have to be taken into account. Finally, there is the long term. I know it's very complicated. That is a question that I asked yesterday and to which no one has yet been able to answer. I am not fixed on the variation in terms of megawatts. However, I have the impression that the numbers change according to our interlocutors. As for responsibility, I thank you for taking a further step – although you indicate the legal complexity of this problem and the need to analyse it collectively. In any case, we already have a small beam of clarity in this respect, which changes us from statements that common law applies and that rejects any responsibility. You seem to agree to participate in a working group that would bring together all stakeholders. It's an interesting step. Companies and the public are concerned about a possible recovery plan. If implemented, damage will be caused and compensation will be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u18	I would like to go beyond the question of capacity and whether there is any certainty about this import from France, the Netherlands and Germany. Do we have signed contracts? What guarantee do we have to be really provided? I have already had the opportunity to put this question to Elia during their first visit to this committee and I have not received an answer. What worries me is that, there are two meetings here, someone told us that we have no guarantee as to France. If we don't have a written and signed guarantee and we're talked about in terms of abilities, there's something to worry about. What's going to happen? In addition, in the case of severe winters, these countries will also need more capacity for their own consumption. What about us?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u19	Much has been said, with a focus on interconnections and import capacity relative to border countries. There is, of course, a need to increase the interconnection capacity. The easiest thing I understood was what the representative of Elias said with the Netherlands. It will be easier to achieve if Doel 1 and Doel 2 close, always according to Elia. Could you give me your opinion on this? As we just said, you don't just have to have the pipes, the wires. You also have to have the ability to buy. Elia's responsibility is to guarantee these 3,500 MW. Will this ability to buy be real, according to your market analysis? Can it be increased, if any? As far as interconnections are concerned, we understand that this would be necessary for our country in the years to come. This is a way of addressing the lack of clean production. Can these investments be made fairly quickly? I know it also concerns Elia, but you have a certain ability to respond. There were questions about the model advocated. As I understand it, the model advocated consists of a strategic reserve with the current situation. Do the surrounding countries highlight this mixed model or do they still prefer to have a higher production capacity so as not to have to make a strategic reserve? If I understood the slide on interconnections correctly, you say that the price rose from mid-2012 because there was a decrease in capacity at the interconnection level. Does that mean that the market could no longer respond to these interconnections? If the price rose in mid-2012, when we were not in a situation as tense as now, what about this winter? As far as the working group is concerned, we are taking over. I would point out that the CREG and its budget depend on Parliament and not on the minister, since the regulator must be completely independent of the executive branch. We will see how CREG can analyze all of these contracts to see how we can move forward on these issues, including liability. Where appropriate, a different legal framework should be adopted in relation to these responsibilities. We will also take this up as parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u20	Mr President, thank you for these questions. We will try to group them by theme. If we do not answer any of your questions, please do not hesitate to rest. We apologize for that already.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u21	I'll start with the interconnection capacity. A number of questions were asked about this. Can't the 3,500 megawatts be structurally higher? Is that enough? Why can't Elia raise that? Which methods are used? Why haven't they been approved yet? I will try to take the questions together, and if I have not answered certain questions, you may certainly ask them again. The CREG itself does not say how much capacity should be given to the market. This remains the responsibility of the network operator. The CREG will therefore never say whether it should be more or less. We will always check whether existing methods are good. Elia must make a proposal to the CREG, which either approves or does not approve the proposal and will check whether the methods have been properly applied. So far, no method has been adopted by the CREG. However, we have allowed the methods proposed. The reason for this is that the method used by Elijah must also be used in the countries with which we have interconnection, in particular the Netherlands and France. Of course, the CREG has no authority to approve or reject these methods. Last time in May, we adopted a draft decision for a period of 12 months, subject to eight conditions which have not yet been met. So that method has still not been approved. Why for 12 months? Because it was normally expected, and we will see whether this is the case, that the new method of calculation would normally introduce a flow-based market coupling in the central Western European region of Germany, France, the Netherlands and Belgium. The scheme was supposed to have been in place by 2009, but there have been a lot of technical problems, so it has been postponed. We have said that we want to approve the current method of calculation, the ATC method, if those eight conditions are met, and only for 12 months. If this flow-based market link does not exist, we can again discuss a thorough evaluation of that ATC method. One of the terms is about intra day. The CREG asks Elia to come forward with a proposal, not only on day-ahead capacity, but also on intra-day capacity. The reason for this is that there is more information at the disposal of the system operators to give or not to give more capacity. Again, we are not going to say how much more they should give. We are going to say that Elijah, and the other network operators, but of course we do not have the power to do so, must make the daily assessment of whether or not to give the additional capacity to the market. If she doesn't or doesn't, she'll have to answer for it and why it's so much or so little. So we are not saying more or less. It's about methods. Another condition, in addition to transparency, is the so-called loop flows, the flows generated by energy exchange. There are different: transit flows, loop flows. It's not like every physical flow coincides with the commercial path. If Belgium buys 3 500 megawatts in the Netherlands, only a part goes through the commercial path, from the Netherlands to Belgium, and another part goes through Germany to France and so on to Belgium. This is inherent in the exchange of energy. We have no problem with that in itself. We have also explained this in more detail in the study. However, there is a difference between which flows get access to the network. In our view there is discrimination, particularly that large price zones have an advantage. Belgium and the Netherlands do not belong to this. These are things that we have already said in the past. That is one of the reasons why we have not yet adopted these methods. How much extra capacity does that give? It's hard to say. These are things that need to be looked at day by day, depending on the situation and the predictions that are being made. The intermittent production can have a major impact. The place of consumption can have a major impact. Anyone who exchanges can have a big impact. So that is a complex matter. It is also the case that Belgium, when we buy energy abroad, generates certain flows that are not always easy to predict. It is also the other way around that when energy is exchanged between Germany and France, for example, certain flows are also generated that go through us and that we must also allow and for which margins must also be taken. The extent of these margins is quite technical. We are not going to determine the size of these margins, but the methods used to determine them are important. That is the competence of the CREG. Then I have one more point about this tension stability. Now there is 3 000 megawatts of nuclear capacity unavailable, in winter 2012-2013 it was 2 000 megawatts. So at that time we had a number of concerns, including about import capacity. At that time, the argument of voltage stability was raised, so when a country imports a lot of electric energy into a price zone, it may cause problems for voltage stability, so the voltage is falling too much because too much energy is being transported over long distances. We then had Elijah's argument examined, which is quite technical. The analysis that we had carried out showed that the argument of voltage stability does not yet play at 3 500 megawatts, which would only play at higher import levels. That is no longer the argument that Elijah is giving, now it is effective about the capacity of the airlines in N minus 1 that can be taxed. That argument has therefore been effectively rejected up to the level of 3,500 megawatts. In relation to the development plans, where a capacity of 4 700 megawatts was envisaged, the CREG noted this in the draft decision. We must, however, take account of a changed context. There has been much more intermittent production, in Belgium, in Germany and also in the Netherlands. Of course, this intermittent production gives much more uncertainty about when what is produced and where. This means that more margins could be justified. That may be a cautious answer, but the more unpredictable things are, the more margins are needed. Then I get that table right here. It is about the Dutch interconnection capacity, because it is quite simple for the French, because it counts everything and takes out the largest. For the Dutch interconnection capacity it is actually a bit more difficult, there one should not look at the airlines, but at the number of PST, the number of cross-control transformers through which that flow has to pass and which have a certain power. We have three of these and they have a power of about 1 350 megawatts. If you do that two times, you're at 2 700. These are estimates, because at lower temperatures the capacity is a little higher and at higher temperatures the capacity is a little lower. For the theoretical import capacity N minus 1 via the Dutch border, this is therefore calculated on the elimination of one PST. In that case, how much can still flow to Belgium or the Netherlands via the northern border?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u22	So it's a theoretical exercise, if I understand correctly, that is done in case a PST jumps.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u23	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u24	For France on the one hand and the Netherlands on the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u25	No, the N minus 1 is applied to both limits. What are the reasons for this? You could say that we may only need one N minus one on one border. Let us take as an example that all electricity comes from the north, where the northern border is saturated. We could then decide not to apply the N minus 1 to the north border, but to the south border, and then it does not matter if something falls out on the south border. However, when there is an incident or a failure at a PST on the north border, we do have a problem, because not all power will be able to come through the south, only a part will be able to come through the south. So Elia applies the N minus 1 criterion to every border, and I think that is a good practice. Perhaps we may be slightly exceeding capacity. After all, if one element fails, the topology of the net also changes, which effectively results in a different distribution of the flows. Such analyses are due to Elijah. For example, this requires information about the European network and the CREG does not have it at its disposal. We want to avoid, of course, a shortage or a shortage that is verifiable, in which the switch-off plan is implemented. What we certainly don't want is a total blackout. All the things that have to do with the net go fast, are sometimes unforeseen and can cause a cascade of shutdowns. So when it comes to the network, we would also recommend some caution to the network operator. It is the role of the system operator to ensure that this is done.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u26	However, if we apply in theory N-1, we are greater than 3500. But perhaps we cannot perform a calculation as simplistic as this one!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u27	I didn't get that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u28	Mr Nollet says that this N minus 1 is high in relation to the 3 500 megawatts that Elijah now puts in front of the addition.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u29	To explain that, perhaps we can move on to the next figure. If you add 3 900 and 2 750, you actually get more than 6 500. If the currents are nicely distributed across both borders, one could effectively enter 6 500 megawatts, but then there are voltage problems. It is only about the capacity of the airlines. In addition, Elijah must make the provision to the market in order to know how the exchanges of energy took place on the day market. Therefore, before closing the daily market, it must know how much capacity is available. That's a bit of a chicken and egg story. The more capacity is made available, the more exchange is possible. If Elia, say, makes 4 000 megawatts available to the market, it may be that all that energy is contracted in the Netherlands and that physically there is more than 2 750 megawatts coming from the Netherlands, while commercially a part also happens via the border with France. Physically, however, more than 2 750 megawatts are more than grid security allows. I'll try to explain it again. Maybe my explanation wasn't that clear. For point C one can say: 3 500 megawatts are imported, of which commercial everything comes from the Netherlands, but of which physically only about 2 750 megawatts enter via the north border, and of which the other part enters via Germany, France and the southern border Belgium. Then there's no problem. Suppose, however, that Elia gives more capacity to the market than 3,500 megawatts, then point C is tilted to the right more upwards. I'll just point it out. Then, for example, one ends up here, past this vertical line, and one is no longer in a net safe position. That is what we absolutely must avoid. Elia also has other elements at her disposal, such as the PSTs, to steer the flows, but that is firstly only a limited capacity and secondly, it must be borne in mind that other exchanges, for example within Germany or between Germany and France, also generate flows that can cross the northern border. We must avoid exceeding the net safe limit of 2 750 megawatts. The study explains this for 20 pages long.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u30	Thank you for trying to explain this very technical situation. The conclusion is that we need to strengthen interconnections, invest at our borders and that Elia must move on to this issue. That's a crucial point. It is technical, but it is very interesting for parliamentarians to understand how this is handled. I propose that we do not go any further in the technicality today on the dangers of imbalance in the system. I also propose that we, together with CREG and other experts, be able to organise global information sessions. We are here as a matter of urgency and in order for everyone to be at the level of this very technical subject, I propose that we organize fact-finding missions with CREG, Elia or others so that we can take the time to technically understand how all this is going. Apart from that, there were the technical import possibilities and there was the ability to buy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u31	Madam President, allow me to speak on this question. It is the market that must make these purchases. I always use the same expression: to dance a tango, you have to be two! Even if Belgium could plead to buy the overcapacity that exists, for example, in the Netherlands, to my knowledge, Belgium has not signed bilateral treaties with the Netherlands ensuring the availability of energy on the other side of the border. Again, it is a question of security of supply and I therefore invite you to ask the minister responsible for security of supply. If I take the case of the Netherlands, I will tell you, for my part, that it is true that there is an overcapacity on the other side of the border, but I will also tell you that our Dutch friends are all but distracted in terms of energy. To give you an example, it is necessary to know that the Dutch transmission system operator has a stake in a DC network to another neighbouring country which is not Belgium. Arbitrage will therefore be made with regard to this overcapacity which exists in the Netherlands to decide where this capacity will go. I am not sure that this overcapacity will come to Belgium. I can't guarantee anything, and I think the minister won't tell you anything else. It will also not be able to guarantee this, especially since there are commercial interests in so far as the transmission system operator has an interest in another transmission system. Commercial arbitration will therefore have to take place. In relation to France, since we are actually talking about it, I think that the French situation is complex. You know that it has set up a capacity market to respond to specific issues. It should be noted that Brittany and what is known as the PACA region (Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur) face a problem because they have not developed own productions for these two "islands". It's not Corsica! I'm talking about energy islands. They therefore had to develop capacity mechanisms to enable these regions and the rest of France to be supplied. France is no longer in overcapacity, as it has been in the past. Why talk about France? I'm talking about France specifically for the winter. You will probably be told that there is a real positive correlation between consumption and temperature in France. Why? Because the French have a lot of electric heating. Is it good or bad? I have no value judgment in relation to that. It's a fact! Therefore, if it is cold in northern France, any available capacity in northern France will be used by France and will not be available for Belgium. I say this in addition to what Andreas said. On the one hand, there is infrastructure. It's one thing! And there is, on the other hand, the market that must play on the acquisition of available or non-available electrons, which will cause prices to rise so strongly that the game of the supply and demand market will intervene. But, to date, I do not know any bilateral treaties enabling Belgium to ensure that these interconnections will be fully used or that the electrons will be fully available when we need them, i.e. mainly in winter. Moreover, if it is cold in Belgium, the chances are great that it will also be cold in the north of France. I give Andreas the floor again to respond to the question of strategic reserves.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u32	The strategic reserve is a capacity fee mechanism. As explained earlier, we in Belgium have chosen a mixed model, where we have the energy only market fully played and only when it does not meet, use the strategic reserve. In 2011, the CREG carried out a study on this capacity mechanism, in which we are quite critical of all kinds of capacity mechanisms, but least critical of the strategic reserves. We therefore consider that this has been chosen to be the best solution to what was available. The system will be introduced this year. The context is clearly different. There is an outage of 3,000 megawatts of nuclear capacity. I don't think it's good to change the system now. Let's see what the market will do now. We don't know. It is very difficult to know whether the price incentive of EUR 4 500 is sufficient or whether additional measures need to be taken to improve the market. We're serious. We must examine this, also in consultation with the market players. About the strategic reserve, is that capacity sufficient? That's an analysis Elia's doing. The administration gives an opinion on this and ultimately it is the minister who decides. The CREG has no competence in this matter and will therefore not take a decision on it. We just know what Elijah has published, and that's exactly what you know. For the rest, we do not know anymore. We don't know these methods. We know it's a probabilistic method. So we are not giving any advice on this either. We will perhaps say that if the market responds strongly to this, if there is much more demand response effectively, that might be included in those methods. However, we do not have the power to evaluate these methods or their results, and we do not.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u33	In terms of the strategic reserve for rates and costs, the Act provides that the strategic reserve is a public service obligation. In other words, it is Elia who must determine the cost and who must submit a tariff proposal to CREG. Once this tariff proposal is approved, the cost is passed on to consumers. The CREG is aware of the costs of the strategic reserve, as the Secretary of State had to provide an opinion on these costs. I'll come back. To date, no proposal has been received from Elias on tariff overload for the strategic reserve. To give an order of magnitude, the strategic reserve will depend on two elements: the booking cost and the activation cost. For the reservation, we have a good indication. For activation, this will depend on the number of times the reserve will be activated during the winter. If we put everything together, we arrive at a cost of the order of 1 euro per MWh, which means for a household, over a year, about 2 to 4 euros maximum, with a particularly high case of activation. All this has to do with an electric bill from an average household of around 750 to 800 euros per year. At the strategic reserve level, it is not yet clear how this will evolve for the future at this stage. This will depend on the need for a strategic reserve in the future, but also on the offers that will be submitted by the production plants on the one hand and by the industrial customers on the other hand at the level of demand. In any case, a market situation which sees, as we have seen, exchange prices rise, puts the power plants back to the market, which have been no longer competitive for some time. This results in a response from the market itself to this phenomenon of electricity shortage. The last point concerns interconnections. You know there are projects that are led by Elia. I would like to stress one important point: you will receive by the end of the year our tariff methodology for the regulation of Elias' tariffs and revenues in the future. This methodology will apply from 2016. We have ensured that incentives are included. We already had two incentives in the past. We move to seven for the future. These incentives aim first of all at ensuring that interconnections are carried out as best as possible. We will analyse the technical quality of the projects and we will ask Elia for a report on the technical choices. Everything will have to be well justified. Then there will be an incentive over time. The faster the interconnection will be achieved, the more bonuses Elia will receive. There will be incentives for research and development to stimulate technological change in order to bring more capacity. We have an incentive for market integration. In other words, Elia will be involved in what the market will be able to develop in a positive way and will be able to benefit from it. Finally, minimising the maintenance time of interconnections and the possibility for the market to make better use of them will bring millions of euros to Elia. It should be borne in mind that, in parallel, interconnection capacity will improve significantly and that the market capacity will increase. It will really be a win-win between users and the network manager. To close this item on the strategic reserve, we have given a confidential notice to the Secretary of State. Indeed, it covers data on prices and costs as well as individual actors – either for production or for demand. As regards the duration of tenders, production submitted tenders for three years, as investments are necessary in some cases. We will therefore cover them for a longer period than that of demand. As far as offers are concerned, we cannot tell you in detail what we have drawn up. However, in terms of demand, we wanted to send a signal to the market. We accepted all applications for about 100 MW. We will communicate our raisonnability criteria to the market after the winter to prepare the next one. Through our signals, we will draw attention to the fact that, if we have allowed some costs to pass this time, we will reduce them in the future in order to create a dynamic, while avoiding causing perverse effects in the medium term with costs that would be exaggerated. As for production, we had to limit the costs for a specific plant, because they seemed unreasonable to us. Indeed, they reached an order of magnitude greater than five times the costs of the other players. That's for strategic reserves. I will tell you a word about the profit margins of suppliers. FEBEG had indicated that they had decreased. We can confirm this because we have seen a transfer of margins. From the end of 2012, we saw a package of millions – and even tens and hundreds of millions – of euros passing from suppliers to consumers. Why? The market has experienced several malfunctions, which have been corrected by the safety net and measures taken by the government. This has led to adjustments in contracts and tariffs for passive contracts – that is, binding customers who have never changed suppliers. Prices have been reduced. Hence the transfer of margins to consumers. Let me say a little bit about the current situation. It is much better for us than it was two, three years ago. This was confirmed in a safety net report. The report was prepared in parallel with the National Bank, which reached the same conclusions. Today we have better transparency, more competition, an effect on a concrete price drop for the consumer. The National Bank told us that the result of these effects was also controlled inflation. Yes, we have a downward margin situation on the supplier side. We'll have to objectiveize all of this. Suppliers are soon expected to be asked for their calculation assumptions. We would like more information on this. But, I repeat, we have gained in terms of the functioning of the market in parallel with this reduction in margins.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u34	As far as flexibility or demand is concerned, which is a question of vocabulary, yesterday we heard figures of 1000, 2000 of potential, etc. I would like to take stock of the situation. To give you an order of magnitude, what now exists in terms of interruptible contracts is 261 MW. As far as the strategic reserve is concerned, exactly 95 MW have been proposed. In addition, in Reserve R 3 (auxiliary tertiary services), there is a product called Dynamic profile. Calls are under way and it is hoped that an estimated 100 MW of potential will be generated. It should also be noted that it is extremely difficult to obtain answers. I refer to a study commissioned by Febeliec and Elia, which dates back to November 2013, a survey of the large consumers who could play a role in the application. The lack of interest of large industrial customers in this regard was very surprising. This was discussed at length in the CREG when we saw the offers (more than ten) that came back for the Demand part. For these offers, one really wondered whether they were accepted or not, because they were relatively expensive. Based on the study conducted and the small number of respondents obtained, it was decided to give a signal to the market. We therefore accepted all requests made under the Strategic Reserve. I assure you right away, it wasn't very harmful to the consumer, we were talking about a few megawatts. Therefore, it was not huge volumes or colossal amounts that were at stake. That is also why Mr Jacquet has made it clear that, for next year, we are going to set more stringent criteria. Sky is the limit in terms of cost for the demand answer. We must keep right, in fine, the consumer will still pay. A lot of initiatives are under way. No later than yesterday, we met an aggregator who has experiences in the United States. He tells us about numbers that make us dream. It speaks of demand potential to account for 10% of consumption. You can imagine what this could mean for Belgium. We're a long way from it! Their core business is located just above the residential ones. These are not the large clients, who are rather covered by interruptible contracts and possible approaches to them, and who are already relatively aware of the matter. These are customers above the residential customer: public authorities, school buildings, small SMEs. There are already aggregators on the market, there are already things that are happening. There is a certain effervescence on the subject. I cannot promise you that we will provide you with an answer before this winter, especially since we need to look at the regulatory framework. There are ideas on the table, there is potential for Belgium but is our regulatory framework suitable? If it depended on the CREG, I promise that we would adapt this regulatory framework. But it's not all in the hands of CREG. The balance and security of the network must also be ensured. In terms of flexibility, we are in a process of maximisation and optimisation of the demand response with Elia, with the aggregators, with the large companies. Finally, I think there is an important need for coordination and collaboration between the transmission system operator and distribution system operators. As much for Elia's direct customers, the question does not arise, the contract was interruptible, it is a bilateral contract between Elia and the transmission system operator. But when you reach SMEs that are connected to distribution, flexibility, if Elia contracts it, will not be available for the DSO and I would like to avoid competition between the transmission system operator and the distribution system operator. In terms of flexibility, we need to coordinate, we need to talk to each other, and this also requires coordination with regional regulators. We have provided the four energy ministers with a report on flexibility. A working group on flexibility exists and we continue to work on it. We're starting the response request. I think there's a very good potential, but don't ask me if it's 1,000 or 2,000 MW. Objectively, you have to question the FEBEG who can explain to you better than I did how she saw 2,000 MW of demand response. I'm unable to confirm the number. The question had been asked in its time. If I may, I will say a little more about security of supply and the role of CREG. In my introduction, I wanted to emphasize the role of CREG in security of supply. For example, capacity monitoring is not the role of CREG in security of supply. We are not competent in all matters relating to capacity encryption or monitoring. Mr. Nollet, if you're looking for information, go to Elia's website. Here you will find the capability forecasts. We're not being consulted. Would we like to be? Yeah, why not. We participate in the working group on forward-looking studies that are more in the medium and long term. But, as I always say, we are at the disposal of the public authority if it so wishes. We make our expertise available to anyone who wishes to use it. However, we are not competent on this point and we consider that there is a competent authority to do so. Things are extremely clear on the subject. On the other hand, we have a strong competence – I insist – on the two aspects that are important for security of supply. That's the "price-cost" aspect. As I said earlier, we issued a notice to the Minister on August 28, 2014 on the assessment of the non-unreasonable or unreasonable cost of the strategic reserve. We will also provide an opinion on the cost for the extension of Tihange 1. We do a permanent price monitoring. This is CREG's first mission in the area of security of supply. The second task, as has been said extensively, is the functioning of the market with the two pillars: market players and transmission system operators. As far as the discharge plan is concerned, I shall pass the floor to my colleague, who is a lawyer, to inform you of what was in the 2003 opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u35	I would like a copy of that opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u36	This notice has been given to the Minister, it is not public. On the other hand, we can tell you what was in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u37	The opinion of the CREG of 2003 states that the plan was drawn up in accordance with the technical rules of the Royal Decree. The exit plan is a ministerial decision. The CREG also said at that time that it seemed appropriate to distinguish between a sudden phenomenon and a predictable announced scarcity, because an automatic shutdown should be possible in the event of a sudden phenomenon. In this respect, the CREG also stated that certain investments in switching relays still had to be made. The CREG also told Elijah that she wanted more information about the costs. The CREG is responsible for setting the rates and the impact on costs. Elijah answered that. The current switch-off plan states that after a complete cut-off of a particular disk within a given zone, it is possible to switch on again for priority customers of up to 10 %. That was very restrictive at the time. That was 10%, period. The CREG then commented that this could perhaps be made a little more flexible, depending on the amount of energy available and in consultation, and that slightly more than 10% could be switched on. This has been taken over in the current ministerial decision, in the current exit plan. At that time, the CREG had also stated that in the event of announced scarcity, awareness is the first measure, and a possible ban on consumption for certain purposes is the second measure. That's when the shutdown comes. The first two measures should also be given to the transmission system operator in the context of the maintenance and proper functioning of the network. That was not followed in the ministerial decision. These are the comments made by the CREG. This is largely in line with the technical regulations. There is now a debate on the cartography of posts and so on, but it is not part of the ministerial decision. The CREG does not have the matters that have now been delivered to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u38	You have no opinion on these elements?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u39	About what I call execution, but I don't know what terminology you use.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u40	I had taken over what was contained in the ministerial decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u41	This is implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u42	I read another word, which I will quote from you right away: "the internal safeguard procedure".
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u43	We have no opinion on this. Moreover, we are not aware of this. On the other hand, I have been asked a question about possible avenues for improvement. I'll try to dispel any possible confusion. You know that criteria are set for sudden discharge, while there are no criteria for shortage – at least in the ministerial decree. It would not be pointless if it could be supplemented by criteria of interpretation. Like any legislation, this text can be improved, even if this work does not fall within the scope of the Creg. To answer your question, no working group on legal advice and liability has been established. Having said that, I have no doubt that it will come to light, given the recurring questions that are being asked in this area. The president mentioned the possibility for the parliament to take up the matter. We are at your disposal, in particular to provide you with a short legal note. We are also, as the Chair suggested, for an information session. We will try to be as clear as possible. If you don't, please interrupt us.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u44	It was also asked whether, if Objective 1 and Objective 2 are to be closed, the capacity at the transit border with the Netherlands would be easier to carry out or increase. We understand from Elijah that this can indeed be easier if one of the Objective 1 plants closes down, i.e. Objective 2 and Objective 3 or Objective 4, i.e. if there is 1 000 megawatt less capacity in the region. If Objective 1 and Objective 2 are rebooted, but Objective 3 falls out, that actually amounts to the same thing as when Objective 3 would work, while Objective 1 and Objective 2 would be stationary. What happens when the four Doel plants are back in operation? That has yet to be analysed and I cannot answer that question now. If Objective 1 and Objective 2 fail, or Objective 3, this is technically similar for interconnection capacity. In addition, I would like to make a comment on Elia's development plan. Elia has to make a development plan every four years based on the prospective study. The CREG gives an opinion on this and is approved by the Minister. We would suggest that the development plan could perhaps be drawn up biennially, so a little faster. Given the possible changes, four years may be a long period. A development plan is also being drawn up at European level, and it is being updated every two years, so it might also be good if this example were to be followed for Elia's development plan. Mr Nollet asked another question about the removal of units. The law requires that the withdrawal of a production unit must be notified before 31 July, after which the withdrawal may take place on 1 April of the following year. A final take-off may take place from 1 September of the following year, if I remember correctly, as these production units may still have to serve for the strategic reserve. A further royal decree may be issued for further clarifications or provisions on such assignments. That royal decision is not here at the moment. We are in favour of clearer rules in this area. I would like to give two examples of practical situations that could arise. Suppose a temporary take-off has been notified before April 1st. If that plant is still running for a few months, should a new notification be submitted, or should that production unit simply stop after those few months? A second situation concerns a final withdrawal. If a production unit is permanently decommissioned from 1 September, so it is not selected for the strategic reserve either, can it be re-commissioned or not? Would we refuse to employ it again in the situation before us now? The answer is no, but it is a bad investment signal if production units are permanently taken out of service, which can still be used at any time if they invest in that production capacity again. Those considerations need to be made and further rules need to be laid down. We're analyzing that. The work is not so simple, because one has to try to identify a bit of all cases, but we do want to see clearer, additional rules laid down in a royal decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u45	In this regard, I read in your memorandum the necessary clarifications on the existing device and also the willingness – or I do not read well – to give the ability to postpone or have an announced closure abandoned and to return temporarily closed units to service. I suppose action by the State, which goes further than the precision of the modalities. It seems necessary to me, too. You didn't mention it. I therefore preferred to take up this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u46	The debate is wide-ranging. Are there still any questions that CREG would not have answered on this specific subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u47	There are no questions that have not been answered, but I would like to ask three new questions. Maybe these are things that are clear to everyone but not quite yet for me. As far as the balance reserve is concerned, you are referring to what is imported from abroad, to the demand for responsibility. Who will pay the €4,500 per MW? Are all operators on the network or specific operators? When it comes to pricing with suppliers, is it done with an open book?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u48	Open book for us or for suppliers?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u49	For suppliers. To obtain elements at the level of their cost, operating costs, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u50	In your graphs, you have shown the evolution of the price of electricity. I am surprised at the difference between Germany and Belgium. Is this the cost price or the price the consumer pays? They're 35 in Germany and we're 50. For industry, the price of electricity is not insignificant.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u51	Why did the price of interconnection capacity increase in mid-2012? Perhaps we misinterpreted the numbers?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u52	For the answer, these are the internal capacities in Belgium of non-consumption. For example, a large company decides to cut at a given time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u53	What do you mean by balance reserve?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u54	Balancing reserves or the tertiary reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u55	There are therefore three types of reserves: primary, secondary and tertiary reserves. Together they can be called balancing reserves. The tertiary reserves also include a part of the unbreakable customers. They represent a volume of 261 megawatts. That's for sure. Elia just contracts directly with the major consumers to be able to shut them down. I don't know if this answers your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u56	Would you like to be told what is the primary, secondary, tertiary reserve, and what are the interruptible contracts?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u57	Interruptible contracts, I understand. On the other hand, if you want to continue with the primary and secondary reserve...The three are included in the balance reserve?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u58	Yeah, they're guys.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u59	Primary reserves are reserves that are defined at European level. At European level, then, there is an N minus 2 criterion, so the European system must be able to absorb two major elements, two large plants of 1 500 megawatts, and then the volume will be distributed pro rata of the energy produced two years ago. For Belgium, this is set at 85 megawatts for 2014. That reserve must also be able to be deployed very quickly, within seconds, and after a few minutes it must be fully developed or even faster. The R2 or secondary reserves are used to absorb greater fluctuations within a given country. This amounts to about 150 megawatts for Belgium. Most of the time we are talking about gas-fired power stations that can react quickly. They must be able to respond fully within a few minutes. The R1 and R2 are symmetrical reserves, which must be able to adjust both downwards and upwards, because sometimes there can also be too much. And then there are the tertiary reserves. They only serve to control up, so if production capacity falls or if there is a problem on a line. In principle, Belgium should be able to absorb 1 000 megawatts here, because that is the largest unit we have. Tertiary reserves are then contracted and must be fully developed within 15 minutes. After 15 minutes, that volume of tertiary reserves must be fully developed. In those tertiary reserves, there is a part of production. That could vary. For 2015 it is between 300 and 400 megawatts, depending on how much can be contracted from R3-DP, so R3 dynamic profile, which can be developed for a whole piece in the distribution networks. Then there's 261 megawatts of the underbreakable customers. Then there is another part that the operator of the largest units, in this case Electrabel, has to provide themselves. And then there is an emergency energy, which is not guaranteed, but where we can count on a 99 percent guarantee, that is the inter-TSO, that is, the reserves that can be activated between the system operators. It is therefore possible that Elia can use emergency energy, for example in the Netherlands, and then transport it to Belgium via the interconnection capacity. This whole set of reserves ensures that Elijah can balance the net in the event of fluctuations and unexpected breakdowns of large units. There are two ways in which strategic reserves can be activated. If the strategic reserves are activated, the rate is 4 500 euros per megawatt hour. This is then imposed administratively, it is not a calculation. There's an economic trigger. That's the trigger that can happen on the day market, in day ahead. If the Belpex day-ahead market shows that the supply cannot meet demand and that there is a price of 3 000 euros per megawatt hour and that there is a shortage, then the strategic reserve is called up and sold at 3 000 euros per megawatt hour in the daily market. That's what's being delivered to the firm. Elia will then have to deliver the strategic reserves to the market players who would otherwise be short, even if they buy at the maximum price. Then there is also a technical trigger. It is allowed because it can always happen that the market has not reached EUR 3 000 per megawatt hour on the daily market, but that Elijah predicts that there will be problems between supply and demand. It should then be possible for Elia to activate the strategic reserves following the claim of the day-ahead market. The EUR 4 500 applies only when there is an effective structural deficit. If that were not the case, if we were to establish in real time that there is no structural deficit, we would not be charging EUR 4 500, but the normal calculation mechanism of the imbalance price would apply.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u60	To answer questions about the costs and prices offered by suppliers, there is some control of CREG but it does not go as far as open book control of the costs and prices of suppliers. With the introduction of the safety net for residential and SME customers, there is quarterly control. Suppliers transmit their applicable tariffs to CREG and CREG will consider whether these rates meet different criteria. There is a royal decree which provides that the price of electricity is indexed to the exchange prices of electricity, that the price of gas is indexed to the prices of gas on the exchange, but that we cannot index to anything else. This indexation took place in the past on the basis of the price of coal, based on the price of oil, which are fuels which have nothing to do with electricity and gas. We have argued for an indexation of the electricity price on the electricity exchanges and the gas price on the gas exchanges. To date, the CREG has approved supplier tariffs quarterly because they have all remained based on these transparent and objective indexing parameters. We stop there at the level of controls. Suppliers are free to offer the rates they want. Since 2013, we have been mapping supplier prices. We position them in relation to each other. This is very interesting for consumers to be able to compare prices but also for suppliers, so as to know where they are in relation to each other. This allows them to refine their strategies. We have had positive effects from the safety net. Three years ago, Belgium was poorly classified in terms of electricity prices and gas prices for residential customers and SMEs. At that time, we were the second most expensive country in the five countries of Belgium, the Netherlands, France, Germany and the United Kingdom. Now we are the second cheapest country in electricity. In gas, we have become the least expensive among the countries considered for residential and SME customers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u61	Thanks to the action of the government and the parliament. Since it's regulated and it wasn't! It is this type of seminar that we will be organizing with the CREG. We are not going to explain to you all the legislation on gas and energy, everything that we voted under the previous legislature, all the techniques. Otherwise, today we're going to give you snippets that will be extracted from the global context. I propose that you focus on today's issue and, as soon as we have a government, we will organize very specific information sessions on different themes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u62	I'm going to go back to a piece of information that the CREG gave us at the beginning of its answer. It's nothing technical, it's a real political problem, I think. CREG submitted a notice on 22 May 2014, a conditional notice, which allows Elia to see its methodology applied for the general model for the calculation of transfer capacity. This opinion included eight conditions. And I heard in your reply that Elia, who was supposed to have raised these eight conditions by August 15, did not respond to the request. We're in a situation of extreme stress on the market. We're facing a winter where we're potentially going to have to resort to unloading. And the operator, Elia, was charged with clarity, transparency, submission of a plan for capacity building, submission of a plan for improving the calculation of infra-day capacity, etc., and was to submit them by 15 August. He did not comply with these conditions. So this agreement no longer exists. You had reached a conditional agreement and the conditions were not met by the agreed date. We may have done the hearings in order, whatever, but it's still a real problem. Then I note your availability to improve the Ministerial Order. I think that's a very good idea. Indeed, in the course of our work we have seen a lack of clarity, at least, as regards the second part – that is, when we are not in an emergency situation. Moreover, I want to say, a ministerial decree changes faster than a law. So we can work very quickly. I'll come back with the Secretary of State. I would add that a ministerial order must not be passed before the government. I also note that, if the four Doels turn, Elia has to analyse whether we can still take advantage of the 1000 MW of the Brabo project for the short term. Finally, I would like to thank you for sending us this framework note on legal responsibility, because we will be dealing with this issue. I agree with what the President said: there is the seminar section and the working group section – in which we will not participate, but on which we will have to decide. Indeed, and if that does not shock you, I would say that the Creg depends on Parliament. We would then have to make a formal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u63	Mr Nollet, we are going to organise the order of business. Applications were submitted for next week. We will put that on the agenda. You asked a final question about the opinion delivered in May 2014. Can we get an answer in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u64	Perhaps a clarification on that. It is a draft decision that we have taken. There has been a consultation and we are now going to take a final decision on this. The deadline of 15 August will of course be amended in the final decision. We still hope that these eight conditions will then be fulfilled. We'll see if that happens. In any event, Elia has a legal obligation to provide the market with as much interconnection capacity as possible. We will also analyse in the coming winter whether they are doing so effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u65	I don't understand. "Draft decision" means that there is still a decision to be taken. When is it put on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u66	It will be taken and published in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u67	We will follow this closely. As there were deadlines set for August 15... They are anyway out of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-24-54-commissie-ic008x.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I come back to a request raised yesterday concerning the arrival of the Secretary of State for Energy. As you know, she told us she was abroad this week. Of course, we will contact his office and meet next Tuesday or Wednesday. As soon as we know, we'll send you the information. I would like to thank CREG again for this information. We will still have lengthy debates in this committee, a little less on the economic aspect but above all on the security aspect.
