ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u1	Mr Minister, thank you very much for releasing you on Wednesday afternoon to answer pertinent questions, one of which concerns the compatibility of a political mandate with the function of debt intermediary. According to information I get from the most beautiful province of Flanders, Limburg, there are signs that in the judicial district of Limburg a certain judge would have the vision that a person, a lawyer, who would act as or be recognised as a debt intermediary and can therefore be appointed, would not be appointed by that court, if he were to perform certain political functions. Apart from the fact that there is no mention of this in the Code of the Court of Justice and apart from the fact that, for example, there is no problem in the same district or resort of first instance, for example when it comes to curators, who often hold political mandates, a particular judge refuses to appoint lawyers once they hold a political mandate or even if they simply hold a political mandate, because there would appear to be a certain appearance of partiality. I suppose that's the judge's reasoning. Is that a correct interpretation of the law, Minister? I had also asked in writing whether that was a deontologically correct interpretation. I don't know if that's what your jurisdiction is about, but what is your interpretation of that situation? Is that interpretation correct or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u2	Thank you, Mr Terwingen, for this very pertinent question. Article 1675/17 of the Civil Code lists those persons who may be designated as debt intermediaries: lawyers, ministerial officials and judicial officers, in so far as they are recognised. In addition, public or private institutions are also eligible, in so far as they have been recognised by the competent authority and have recourse to natural persons for this purpose. The list is exhaustive. In addition, the law provides that the debt intermediary must be independent and impartial vis-à-vis the parties concerned. However, outside the rules listed above, the law does not prescribe any additional conditions to be met by a debt intermediary. It therefore seems clear, on the basis of the law, that there would not be any incompatibility as such between a political mandate and acting as a debt intermediary. More specifically, in Belgian parliamentary law, incompatibility between a parliamentary mandate and a private function is rare. In fact, the legislator assumes that the election to a legislative assembly does not mean that the elected person ends or suspends his professional activities. The opposition to the ban on exercising a parliamentary mandate and a private function at the same time rests, among other things, on the fear that, and I quote from the doctrine of law, such incompatibility would contribute to the professionalisation of the political business. This means that the elected members would regard their mandate as an appeal and pursue their election for the bride. A mandate of a member of a legislative assembly is therefore legally compatible with an independent profession. However, it should be pointed out that the judge may always be independent and should check whether the debt intermediary provides the necessary guarantees for independence and impartiality, whether the debt intermediary is appointed by the court itself or proposed by the debtor applicant. The court will take all the circumstances into account, so that in certain specific situations it cannot be ruled out that the court in the present case considers that the inclusion of a political mandate is incompatible with the action as a debt intermediary.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. For the record, first of all, it's not because of my lawyer's hobby I have that I'm asking this question. I'm not qualified as a debt intermediary at all, let's be clear. The answer you gave seemed to contain some reference to a parliamentary mandate, while I believe that this is about lower political mandates. So I don't feel personally involved, but thank you for answering intututu personae, which caress my ego.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u4	I did not answer intutu personae, Mr Terwingen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u5	That's right. I'm sorry I misunderstood. The second point is that every judge must, of course, assess independence, but cannot de facto say once there is a political commitment that someone can no longer be designated. That is what seems to be a bit too tight here.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u6	What I said for the parliamentary mandate also applies by analogy to other political mandates.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u7	Question No 568 by Caroline Cassart-Mallieux is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u8	Minister, I have a question about the state of play of the new naming legislation which has been adopted in Parliament with the necessary fuss. I am very pleased and honoured that Mrs Lahaye-Battheu has linked her question to mine. That gives me the pleasure of meeting her again on the committee. I have a question about the repairs that have to be done. At the time the question was tabled, it was even less clear. In the meantime, I think there is a little more clarity about that. Are there also figures of the number of applications of this legislation, taking into account the transitional measures provided for by the law? In Maasmechelen, a municipality of 40 000 inhabitants, I have so far signed one act using the transitional measure to change the name. Children who bore the father's name will now only bear the mother's name. So are there any figures yet, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u9	Mr President, I agree with Mr Terwingen's questions. The name legislation was amended in March 2014. Our country was looking at a number of European legal convictions. We therefore had to amend the legislation, otherwise there was a threat of a conviction. Minister, how many times has the possibility of giving newborns the family name of the mother, father or double family name been used so far? Do you have any figures on the transitional arrangements? How many times was the name of minors changed retroactively? Is it true that the figures are similar to those in our neighbouring countries, for example France?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the law of 8 May 2014 amending the Civil Code with a view to introducing equality between men and women in the way of handing over names to the child and to the adopted person had indeed to be aligned with the rules on co-mothers. This bill also amends the above-mentioned law in order to resolve the problems that arose from the implementation of the law. I have cooperated in the drafting of this bill, which has since been adopted in article by article in the Justice Committee. It is not uncommon for a new law to create a number of practical problems in the first few months following its entry into force. It is often a question of solving itself over time. As far as the quantitative application of the new law is concerned, I have the following information, obtained through the National Register. On the date of 4 October 2014, 3 042 times the possibility was used to give a double last name on the birth declaration...................................................................................................................................................................................................... At the same time there were 2 677 Belgians with a double surname. Of these Belgians, 1 580 were given the double surname after choice with the birth certificate and 1 097 children were given a double surname on the basis of the transitional measure provided for in Article 12 of the Act. At the same time there were 140 Belgians who, on the basis of the transitional measure provided for in Article 12 of the said law, obtained the surname of the mother. As already mentioned, 1 462 children were given the mother's last name at the birth certificate, either on the basis of a choice of name or for another reason. It is difficult to draw conclusions on the basis of these initial figures. The system of the National Register was only amended on 1 September in order to allow the introduction of the dual name. For the period between 1 June 2014 and 1 September 2014, the municipalities were asked to manually complete the list of the National Registry with the name changes and name choices made during this period. This supplement has not yet been completed by all municipalities, so the figures are at least incomplete. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, as far as your question of comparison is concerned, it is still a little too early to make statements. The Law of 8 May 2014 entered into force on 1 June 2014. That was less than six months ago. In order to make any comparison, I can give you France's figures. Of all children born in 2012 in France 6.5 % bears the mother's name and 8.5 % the double name, divided 5.9 % first the father's name and then the mother's name and 1.6 % first the mother's name and then the father's name, the other children bear the father's name.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u11	Minister, the figures you are giving are very interesting and I would like to ask if we can get your written reply. Tomorrow's newspaper will show who went to the press the fastest, Mrs. Lahaye-Battheu or me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u12	Minister, thank you for your very detailed reply, despite the fact that the law is still very young and it is still early to evaluate. You say that the figures are incomplete, but I think they already give a first impression and show that young parents are a number of young parents and a minority, but that was also predicted to take advantage of the freedom that exists now in the choice of name for their daughter or son.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u13	Mr President, Minister, I come back to a question about the shortage of registry staff that I raised in this committee on 12 November. In your reply, you indicated that the framework of clerks for the province of West Flanders was completed at 92.5% and for East Flanders at 86.6 percent. I come back to the figure in West Flanders, because the figure would not be correct according to the data I have at my disposal. I have therefore asked you to verify that again. There would be a deficit of 12.57% in West Flanders. I'll explain why. The Bruges, Ypres, Kortrijk and Veurne departments have a framework of 87, 16, 52 and 14 full-time equivalents respectively. By 15 October there would be a deficit of 9.8, 3.7, 10.7 and 1.2 respectively. The calculation took into account job vacancies, delegations and long-term sick. Do you stick to the figure you gave on November 12th or do you acknowledge that there is a deficit of 12.57%? Where does the difference come from? At what time do you see the full implementation of the frameworks?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u14	Mr Minister, it has already been mentioned in this committee that there is a shortage of French-speaking clerks in the Brussels borough. It would seem, however, that the situation continues to deteriorate and is becoming less and less easy to manage. As you know, the Brussels courts were split on March 31, 2014. During this division into two separate seats, the Dutch-speaking clerks, the majority, deserted the French-speaking courts. Since the number of clerks was already insufficient in some French-speaking courts before that date, the duplication of the courts had only worsened that situation. In addition, with the changes in jurisdiction, business disputes are now under the jurisdiction of the commercial court, whereas in the past, cases with a loss of up to €1,860 were under the jurisdiction of the justice system. Thus, in 2012, 417 cases were dealt with. This figure remained constant in 2013 (414 cases). But in September 2014, no fewer than 1,196 cases were brought before the French-speaking commercial court in Brussels. This has led not only to an explosion in the number of cases to be processed, but also to the number of judgments to be typed. Again, this is problematic because with the duplication of the Brussels Commercial Court, the team of four typists (two French-speaking and two Dutch-speaking) was also split. However, it seems that neither of the two French-speaking typists is currently in a position to work. It is the clerks, already overworked, who have to take on this task. There are now more than 1,200 cases awaiting processing in Brussels. Minister, have any steps been taken to address this shortage? Are the figures on the situation of the French-speaking commercial court correct? Do you think that, pending definitive solutions, it is possible to put in place temporary measures to reduce the number of cases awaiting processing at the French-speaking commercial court in Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, as I indicated in my reply of 12 November 2014, a whole range of vacancies has indeed been opened up. To avoid any misunderstandings, global capacity utilisation across the country is 92.5% across all personnel groups. For the Registrys, there are currently 4 289 full-time units working at 4 827 staff. The selections are still being completed, which had already started in June 2014. A new publication of vacancies is in preparation. Opening and selection shall be carried out in consultation with the jurisdiction concerned. Since 1 April 2014, the law that re-designs judicial districts has come into force. You know that the government agreement provides that the judicial officers in the judicial district of Brussels will be respected and filled in as a matter of priority. Regarding the concern for the judicial staff in the Court of First Instance of West Flanders, I can say that according to the data provided by the FPS Justice on 1 October 2014, 149,46 full-time units were employed on a framework of 170. This is largely in line with the figures you indicate. The frame contains one unit more than what you specify and the padding differs five units. The difference in filling may depend on the time at which the photograph was taken and the interpretation given to the concept of absence. Similarly, sick staff occupy the framework. Those figures include the judicial staff of all departments of the Court of First Instance in West Flanders. Since the redrafting of the judicial landscape, there have been no sub-frameworks for the departments. In addition to 1 principal clerk, 7 clerks head of service and 66 clerks, 59 assistants and 37 employees are also involved. Until now, there has never been an automatic, complete filling of the framework for the judicial staff. A general standard is applied to judicial staff within which those responsible are invited to set their priorities before opening vacancies. As far as the French-speaking commercial court in Brussels is concerned, my administration has been informed by the president of the French-speaking commercial court of the situation, in particular by the absence of typists. You know that the executives of the Brussels courts have been adapted in the context of the duplication of the different courts and have been increased both at the level of the clerks and the administrative staff. It seems to me that the proper functioning of the Registry is a common responsibility of the staff members under the authority of the acting Registrar-in-Chief and the President. From this point of view, the absence of one or two dactylos does not appear to affect the functioning of the court. However, it is clear that the Registry must have sufficient staff to handle the workload. The framework of the French-speaking commercial court in Brussels is 59. The current strength is 53.2. The court may have a number of delegations in the office of clerk of 12, in order to fill the absence of appointed clerks. A series of vacant places had already been published in June and the selections ended. Three appointment orders are currently being drafted by my administration and will be submitted to my signature shortly. A new publication of the vacant places is also being prepared in consultation with the judicial authorities. To this end, the Chief Registrar was contacted on 26 November 2014 before determining the exact profiles and job descriptions for the places to be published again this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u17	Mr President, Minister, this is a rather short question about the state of the investigation. We all know that the target 4 nuclear reactor was shut down last summer, possibly, or rather quite clearly, as a result of a sabotage act. The turbine stopped because the lubricating oil leaked out, and there's evidence that someone deliberately emptied the oil tank. The parquet has started an investigation. I would like to ask you a number of questions, although I know it is delicate to ask questions about matters under investigation. First of all, the investigation was given to the federal prosecutor pretty quickly. What were the reasons for handing over the file from the court of Ghent, Department of Dendermonde, to the federal prosecutor's office? Did that happen at the request of Dendermonde's court or on the initiative of the federal prosecutor? Secondly, what is the state of the investigation? When can we expect concrete results? I would like to stress that this is an actual question for two reasons. Firstly, the last few days there have been rumours in media circles that the perpetrator would be known but that the Justice Department does not want or dare to share the identity, or even simply does not want or dare to tell us that the perpetrator has been found. Secondly, today the message also appeared that Target 4 will restart. It therefore seems important to me that there should be some clarity about the investigation, whether the person concerned, perhaps internal, is still working there or not, and whether the plant can be started in safe conditions. In short, I believe that some information on the state of play, however delicate, is appropriate. Otherwise, there is a risk that the rumor that the Justice Department could not or would not be able to communicate will lead its own lives even if that is not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u18	Mr Minister, it was from 5 August 2014 that the target 4 nuclear reactor was shut down, after the steam turbine overheated by maliciously leaking the lubricating oil. The only time we heard a spokesperson from the public prosecutor's office communicate about this investigation, dates back to August 14th. It's been very quiet ever since. It's now three and a half months later and we still didn't get any news. Some media did report that the perpetrator was already known at the courthouse; he would have turned himself in to the police months ago. It's a fact that that man or woman has done quite a bit. Without the sabotage, there would probably have been no exit plan, with many meetings leading up to it. The decommissioning of the Objective 4 nuclear reactor cost 27 million euros a month. Today we hear from Electrabel that it will cost another EUR 30 million to restore Objective 4 by the end of the year. That is why I would like to have an update on this investigation. I know it is delicate to ask in an ongoing investigation, but given the matter and the fact that it is said that the offender is known, and that today it is explicitly reported that Electrabel does not want to communicate about the investigation, I wonder whether it is true that the offender is known and why was not communicated. Finally, I would have liked to know if the unsub's motives are known. Of course, that's not unimportant either.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u19	Mr President, for the record, I would like to inform Mr Van Hecke that his written question has now been answered. Nevertheless, I shall be happy to answer the oral question. Mrs Pas, Mr Van Hecke, as regards the investigation into sabotage, I can inform you that, in the light of this, the prosecutor of the King's Office in East Flanders, Dendermonde, found that additional claims arising from the infringements of Articles 487a and 488a, § 4, 1°, sabotage of nuclear installations, and 137, § 1, and § 3, 5°, terrorist offence, of the Criminal Code were desirable. Since these charges, pursuant to Article 144b of the Civil Code, fall within the jurisdiction of the federal court, the investigation was federalised in consultation with the prosecutor of the King in East Flanders of the Dendermonde department. The case was then brought before a court of inquiry specialised in terrorism, which was included in the above-mentioned charges. With regard to the state of affairs and the further details of the investigation, I regret to inform you that I cannot reply because this is incompatible with the principle of the separation of powers and the secrecy of the investigation, in particular with regard to the investigations which the investigating judge has or has not ordered and the reasons for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for the answer to the first part of the question. With regard to the second part of the question, I understand your answer. I also knew when asking how delicate this was. You will understand, however, that with the answer you have given today and for which I understand, the rumor mill will continue to run. It will be asked if the unsub is known or not. The Minister cannot and will not reply to this for understandable reasons, but the federal prosecutor does not seem to want to answer that either. This gives the impression that something may have to be hidden. As a result, the whole thing remains mysterious. In the context of the transparency of justice, it might perhaps be useful to have some kind of communication from justice in one sense or another, denying or recognizing it. However, I understand that there may be reasonable grounds for not communicating for the time being. That's possible, too. The investigations may require this, and even though we know who did it, perhaps other elements need to be further investigated. I can understand that. However, I fear that the rumor mill will continue to run and that the pressure on the federal court will increase in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u21	Unfortunately, Minister, I did not receive an answer to my question. What aren't we supposed to know? Why isn't the parquet communicating? Why is Electrabel silent? Why isn't it FANC? It only stirs up the rumors. It suggests that the perpetrator profile may not be so politically correct and one prefers not to communicate about it. The fact is that there weren't so many of us who were responsible. In any case, it was a maximum of sixty-five employees. I don't think it's gonna take months to find out who did this. I very much regret that no one should know what is happening. The concealment of the truth in such important matters is almost as criminal as the sabotage act itself. I hope that the court will have reasonable grounds for doing so and will communicate on this matter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Brotcorne's 536 on the same problem is therefore without object and will lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u23	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of November there was the first strike of the prison staff under this government. Just before that, I asked you a question about the discussions you had already had. At that time, you said that there would be further consultations. I received a very angry e-mail from one of the trade unionists about my question. As far as the report is concerned, I must stress that I understand that the working conditions are difficult and that it is not always obvious. Recently, I have had the privilege of visiting Prince's prison. I have seen that not only the staff have to work under difficult conditions, but also the prisoners often have to stay under difficult conditions. If there is a strike, the basic rights of the detainees will be curtailed even more than is normally the case. The strike took place despite the consultations you have had and despite the fact that you said it had been constructive. In the e-mail the person concerned referred to a less constructive consultation. I wasn't there and I can't judge that. Then I come to my other concern, namely that the police should be insuring the service. I am concerned not only with living and working conditions, but also with the police who have to replace the prison staff each time. In this way, there is less blue on the street so that the security outside is less guaranteed. We know that the government agreement includes a guaranteed service. I believe that this could provide a solution. However, there is also a protocol agreement 351 concluded in 2010. At the time I questioned your predecessors Turtelboom and De Clerck about this because it was always said that there would be an evaluation. You also said that everything went according to the protocol agreement. However, there would be an evaluation. That evaluation was already promised to me in the summers of 2011 and 2012, and already the summers of 2013 and 2014 have passed. I come to my questions, Minister, with which I would like to get a good idea of the situation. Has the review of the Protocol Agreement 351 been completed? If so, what were the results? What adjustments will be required? If not, when can we finally expect this evaluation? Do you have any idea of the number of strikes that have taken place since the adoption of the Protocol Agreement in 2010? How many of these strikes were announced in time in accordance with the protocol? How many strike days is it all about? Is there a positive evolution over the years? In other words, does the protocol work? What is the timing of the introduction of the guaranteed service in the prison system?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u24	Mr President, the evaluation of Protocol 351 has not yet been completed. We will continue them from the point where the previous government stopped. The discussions between government and trade unions with a view to a joint and mutual evaluation of Protocol 351 have resulted in several versions of an evaluation note from the public authorities. However, as it proved impossible to achieve a minimum consensus within the Sectoral Committee 3 Justice between the government and the representative trade unions on the elements of evaluation and the conclusions to be drawn from it, a social mediator for the public sector was called upon at the end of 2013. During several months, the mediator sought to bring the different views of the government and trade unions closer together and to establish a minimum framework of elements of evaluation of Protocol 351. However, at the end of the legislative term, the conciliation effort could not be ended by fundamental differences of opinion between the government and the trade unions, which led one of the representative trade unions, the ACOD, to refer the matter to the A Committee. At present, the mediation effort is therefore on hold in the evaluation of Protocol 351. However, we intend to come to an evaluation. With regard to the replacement of prison guards in the event of a strike several years ago, the initiative was taken to draft "strike" scenarios. These have been drafted, in partnership, by the prison directorates and the local police services with a prison in their territory. These scenarios contain all relevant information in the event that the police are required to intervene in the event of a strike to ensure order and security in the prison. In addition, in the event of a strike, there is consultation at both the local and central levels between the prisons, the prison administration and the police services concerned. At the organizational level, police reinforcement requirements are estimated based on estimated staff presences. A dialogue is being established with the police services in order to clarify this request as best as possible. Moreover, during the actions, daily monitoring of the evolution of the strike is carried out by the central level. This information makes it possible to assess whether order and security are guaranteed in prisons. If necessary, police reinforcements are sent or even withdrawn if their presence is not absolutely necessary. The exact percentage set in time, in accordance with the protocol, is a fact that cannot be reported in the current state of affairs, the collection of figures is a difficult point in this file. Protocol 351 has been in place since 19 April 2010, a lot of data were first kept only manually, only later an IT tool was developed to keep track of data. As regards the quantitative evaluation of Protocol 351, we note that this is still the subject of discussions with the trade unions in the light of the evaluation exercise. We will take up this work again. Of course, prisons are doing their utmost to comply with the legal provisions. In time of strike, the police intervene to guarantee order and security in the prison, but it does not replace prison officers. The organization of the inmate regime can be ensured when sufficient supervisory staff are present to oversee these movements. You know my opinion, which I have already expressed many times before the unions, that a minimum system is also to be considered from the point of view of the rights of detainees. With regard to the introduction of guaranteed services, I would like to begin discussions with the trade unions. I would also like to raise the issue in the context of the evaluation of Protocol 351.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u25	Mr President, Minister, your answer is not very encouraging. First of all, I've always been taught that measuring is knowing, even for a lawyer. However, I now notice that even measuring is not working. It needs to be done manually today. So it's really bad. I can't tell you much more about that. I hear from you today a novelty which is being told to Parliament, namely that there has even been a mediation attempt. I was always informed that the dossier was under way, that the evaluation would be completed and that a date was set, namely the summer of 2015. Now I hear that there have even been mediation attempts, but that the positions are still far apart. That is a very different story from the story given by the previous government. I am therefore curious to know exactly what the difference in views is, which means that it is not even possible to find a line through mediation. In that case, the positions are really far apart, which is dramatic. After all, we have a few new prisons and more non-new or old prisons, which are in a terrible state. I'm not telling you anything new. Such a situation is poignant to a prosperous or modern country such as ours, both for the working conditions and for the living conditions of the detainees. The fact that two groups are opposed to each other and that they are not seeking a solution that everyone can agree to is a great pity. Minister, my curiosity is now, of course, triggered. So I want to know to what extent the views are far apart. That will probably be the subject of another question. I am not in favour of your answer and I am not hopeful. However, I always hope that we will find a solution to the problem once and for all. Echter, fasten your seatbelts; it will be a bumpy and a long ride. That's my fear. I wish you every success in your future discussions with the social partners. I'll thumb it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u26	Mr. Secretary, you probably know our special prison director. I've already had the privilege of meeting him a few times. What graces him is that he is thinking about alternative forms of detention. It is useful that such an exercise is made. Together with people on the same line, the League is also working on it. He has designed a plan to replace the current large prisons with some 900 small house prisons. It's called "The Houses." In my written question, the Huttenhausen was mentioned, but that is an institution in Mol. There is no overpopulation in the project "The Houses'. The inmate gets a good living environment there. One can also be accompanied individually. This can make sense for the return to society. In large prisons, especially in the state in which they are located today, this guidance is insufficient. The prison director is still looking for a location for the first detention house, but it would be the intention to place in there some 16 prisoners serving up to three years and about eight who have come to the end of their sentence. Of course, public support is crucial for the launch of such a project. One thinks, if one gets that support, that one needs about another year before one can start. Of course, one must also find a municipality that wants to cooperate. There's gotta be a place. By the way, he has already asked the question to my congregation. So he's really working on it. However, there is nothing in the coalition agreement about this project, Minister. It merely states that the master plan 3 will be evaluated and adapted. The previous minister has always said that the idea is not bad, but that differentiation is also possible in a larger prison, in separate wings. She always cited the example of Haren. I believe that these are two different things. I would like to hear your position, and that of the DG EPI, on the project "The Houses'. How do your services intend to ensure security effectively in such small-scale projects? Would you like to support such a project, whether with a budget or not? If you provided a budget, what budget could it be about? Do you have any idea where and at what time such a project can be realised? I believe that we should examine this possibility. I realise that there may also be negative points, but in the current context any alternative should be given the opportunity to be examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u27	Mrs De Wit, I have already said in this committee, in the light of my policy orientation, that I am open to appropriate forms of detention. I will meet the prison director of Dendermonde, Mr Claus, on 7 January 2015. At present, the FPS Justice is not involved in the project to which you refer and it is therefore not possible to take specific positions on the security aspects. Again, I am open to adapted forms of detention. You underline that the project for women, which will be integrated into Haren's prison, is something else than De Hutten, because it is within the framework of a great unity. Nevertheless, it is an open establishment for women, this is about part of the prison that is outside the perimeter and where certain women, who have been selected for this purpose, can live in small units that are arranged as a home, including a garden, in order to pursue standardisation and facilitate the transition from detention to a life outside the prison. But I still dare pray for some patience before I share my final religion on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u28	Mr. Secretary, praying is not necessary, asking is enough. It is good that the conversation can be started and we will wait and see how you evaluate it and how the conversation will proceed. I only fear, of course, with the current budgetary context, that finding a budget for this will not be easy, apart from finding a suitable location, there will be the big problem. I'm curious, and I'm glad you're open to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u29	Mr President, Minister, Belgium has a large prison population and about 40% of prisoners manage to spend their days in prison more or less working. Half of them do not work for the prison itself, although there are also chores to do, for example in the kitchen, but for companies that use prison work. That is not only good as a pastime, because what else are they doing in their cells, but it is also useful for the purposes of parole and the prevention of recidivism upon return to society. In addition, it makes sense for those involved, because they earn some money, which they can pay, for example, for canteen visits, television and chocolate on their sandwiches. The Central Service of the Directorate for Prison Labour has put forward a proposal to convince more companies to take up prison work, in particular the CellMade project. This should become a quality label for companies to make use of these services. In prison quality is guaranteed at very cheap rates. On average, a working inmate costs 6 euros per hour, of which he himself has 2 to 2.5 euros per hour. He can also save up to compensate his victims. There is, however, a ceiling on what a prisoner can earn. The result is that those involved cannot work a full day but only half a day because otherwise they would earn too much. A similar project has been in existence in the Netherlands for a long time. There, an umbrella prison company, In-Made, was established in 2011. Since then, prison production has doubled and an annual turnover of 20 million euros has been generated, which is not insignificant. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, what does prison work for companies produce for the Belgian State every year? Is there any evolution in that figure in recent years? Secondly, what turnover does CellMade hope to achieve in the future? Is a doubling envisaged, as in the Netherlands? Thirdly, is it merely a quality label, as one says, or is it more than that? What else does it mean? Fourthly, what initiatives are you taking to get even more than 40% of the prison population to work? Finally, will you take initiatives to make prison work more attractive? After all, those concerned can now only work half a day because otherwise they will already be at the maximum. Could the maximum daily and hourly earnings be increased?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u30	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, you will find the financial result of prison work in the table I will give you shortly. The last year a profit of 11 percent was achieved on a turnover of 13 million euros. Since 2007, there has even been an average profit of 13%. By the end of 2015, the Prison Labour Directorate will aim to increase both turnover and the number of prisoners employed by 10%. The historical figures show that this is a realistic perspective. Sales have already increased by 23% over the past year. Care must be taken to ensure that the increase in turnover is not at the expense of the result. With the CellMade project, the aim is to give the Prison Labour Regie the opportunity to put more prisoners to work. As a result of the planned increase in turnover, this project also contributes to the improvement of the financial outcome of the Prison Labour Regie. The aim is to increase the number of prisoners employed, which together with an increase in building charges from EUR 3.5 per hour to EUR 5 per hour, should lead to an increase in turnover. CellMade's objective is therefore twofold, namely an increase in the number of prisoners employed and an increase in turnover. In order to increase the number of inmates employed, the Prison Labour Regie should be able to pursue a certain policy. CellMade is a label that draws attention to the added value of prison work. It refers both to the quality of the work done by prisoners and to the benefits of prison work for prisoners and contractors. Making prison work attractive attracts contractors and increases employment. CellMade is a new concept launched by the central department of the Regie. With a modern image, it is intended to encourage managers to take the step towards prison work. CellMade is indeed a quality label that focuses on work in the workshops, a favourable rate, a high quality and closeness to production, respect for the set execution times and a good framework by experienced technical staff. Finally, efforts are being made to create jobs for as many prisoners as possible. The maximum earnings were introduced with a view to a better distribution of employment within the prison. The days or parts of days on which prisoners cannot work are spent on other activities such as sport, culture, training and visits.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will look at the table with due attention. Allow me to say that I think this is a good project. I hope it will succeed. The only point I would like to make is that we must ensure that this does not jeopardise our social employment outside the prisons. That's the only danger I see. I believe that we must strike a balance in this respect. After all, a government works on many fronts to get people to work. From the perspective of the prisons and the inmates, I see advantages. Through their employment, prisoners can earn money and prepare for their return to society. Moreover, it makes their stay in prison more bearable. I also think it would be easier for the prison staff if prisoners had something to do with it. So I see a lot of advantages in this, but we must ensure that there is not too much competition with social employment outside the prison walls.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u32	If I am not mistaken, Minister, this question was partly raised during last week's plenary session. I don't need to outline the context anymore. Belgium has been convicted in a case brought against our country by a Romanian ex-con. He stayed in the prisons of Antwerp and Merksplas and sat in too small cells, had to sleep on a mattress on the ground and had no toilet available. The story's out. Besides, he had to share the room with smokers, while the man himself doesn't smoke. Because of these inhuman conditions and the overcrowding in our prisons, Belgium was condemned and our country now has to pay EUR 10 000 compensation. I told you, that situation, especially in the old prisons, is not new. The coincidence is that last week the Justice Commission visited Prince's prison. There one finds cells of between 6 and 9 square meters where 3 prisoners are locked 23 hours a day, with mold on the wall and in the shower. Often there is no toilet, but only a bucket. Such a situation no longer meets the standards of the 21st century. However, there is a recovery coming. Antwerp's arrest house will be replaced by a new one in the same city. Hopefully that'll come soon. The Prince's prison will in principle be replaced by a new super prison in Haren together with the Brussels prisons, although it remains to be seen how the procedures are going. For Merksplas, however, concrete replacement is not immediately planned, although you are thinking about a new prison on the same site. In the meantime, however, the current prisons must continue to function. With the precedent, the conviction, there's a big risk. Almost every day, an inmate will be able to rely on the overpopulation and on the inhumane circumstances to claim compensation from the Belgian State. We are now at risk of that. How do you estimate the conviction? Do you indeed fear a dangerous precedent? How many similar lawsuits are still in progress? What initiatives will you take in the short term to improve, temporarily and pending the construction of the new prisons, the harrowing situation in the outdated prisons of Belgium? I'm quoting the example of Frost. There we were told that almost nothing is happening, since the prison must be demolished, with the result that other showers must be closed. When transforming a single cell into a duo or trio cell, will you take into account the separation of smoking prisoners and non-smokers? On the other hand, I wonder whether the anti-tobacco law also applies to prisons? However, I do not think it will be possible to take away prisoners' cigarettes as well. What is the current state of play in the file on the construction of a new arrest house in Antwerp? What's the timing? The same question applies to the prison in Haren. Is the timing of 2016 still realistic? Finally, what is the state of play regarding the intention to build a new prison on the same site in Merksplas?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u33	Mrs De Wit, I am a little confused because Mr Lachart has also asked a question about the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and about the Court of Assistes. I agree that a number of Belgian prisons are outdated and in very poor condition. That is also why my predecessors have been working on masterplan 1 and 2 and why I am working on a new modified version. The institutions mentioned by you are of course included and will be closed or renovated in the future. However, building prisons takes time. In the meantime, together with the Government of the Buildings, we are doing everything we can to keep the situation viable. In each of the prisons adjustment and maintenance works are still regularly carried out to bridge the intermediate phase, but large and structural works will, understandably, no longer be carried out in the establishments that will be closed down. The judgment of the European Court of Human Rights was delivered on 25 November 2014. My administration and I are still studying the content to assess its precise scope. It is already clear that the infringement found does not concern Belgian prisons as a whole, but specific departments of specific prisons at a specific stage of overpopulation. In the coming weeks, I will examine, in consultation with my administration, the consequences of the judgment. We are aware of another case currently pending before the European Court, in which the residence in the same prisons is charged at the same time. In most places in prisons there is a general smoking ban. The only places where the prisoner is allowed to smoke is the cell and the walk, while the staff can only smoke in smoking rooms. The difference has to do with the nature of the presence in prisons. Inmates are permanently resident there, which means that the cells must be regarded as their place of residence where the laws on smoking do not apply. Staff, on the other hand, are in the workplace where smoking is prohibited. So the inmates can only smoke inside the building in the cell. As far as possible, staff are trying to avoid non-smokers ending up in a cell together with smokers. Due to the overpopulation and other criteria for bringing together prisoners, such as language, nationality, human relations and so on, staff are in limited cases forced to place a non-smoker in a cell together with a smoker, but, as has been said, they are trying to avoid it as far as possible. It was already decided in the past to step into the city's proposal to realize the prison in Antwerp on the site of Blue Gate. Negotiations are still under way on all kinds of technical aspects and the dossier will then be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. The file on the prison in Haren is still running. The permit file was submitted to the competent authorities at the end of last year and is currently following normal procedures. Once that trajectory is over, we can start building that prison village. An accurate schedule will be drawn up at that time. Finally, the dossier of Merksplas is included in masterplan 1 and 2 and will also be addressed. Merksplas is not an easy site, given its great historical value and its protection as a monument. The site is also located in a protected landscape. All these aspects will be taken into account in the preparation of a proposal for a project by the Government of the Buildings, after which it will be submitted to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u34	Mr. Secretary, it'll be a while to see if we can get out. I'm already glad there's only one other thing going on, because otherwise we've really left for a whole ride. I can say the following about my question. I think the mistake was with me, because my question with the title of assists does not begin with a condemnation by the European Court, and that is why I have taken another page. That mistake was with me, and you've been confusing it for a while. I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u35	Mr. Chair, Minister, CPAS is increasingly being solicited by persons in custody or under electronic surveillance. They ask CPAS for financial assistance mainly for basic necessities (savon, toothbrush, toothpaste, cell care products, clothing), medical care (dental prostheses, glasses) and pocket money, to make telephone calls or to buy stamps, etc. Even if all CPAS are affected by this situation, those who have one or more establishments in their territory are severely affected. It should be recalled that the aid provided by the CPAS is residual. It only intervenes after other types of intervention. In addition to the workload involved, this aid represents a significant financial impact, as it is based on own funds (financial assistance granted and which does not fall within the coverage provided by the federal government, staff costs, legal fees for the CPAS which must be defended before the court or the labour court). Minister, since the State is obliged to ensure conditions of detention in accordance with human dignity and it seems self-evident that basic necessities and essential medical care are actually provided and cared for by the prison administration, what measures will be put in place for prisoners? Do you not think that this logic is contrary to the law of principles of 12 January 2005 and that the fact that the prison administration discharges itself on CPAS is also contrary to this law and to the legal status of prisoners? Of course, the Justice budget is limited – we will talk about it next week – but should the federal government not ensure conditions of detention that are in keeping with human dignity and provide the inmates with hygiene and basic necessities? Should the federal government not provide for the necessary medical expenses for persons deprived of their liberty?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u36	Mr President, Mr Massin, the rules governing the intervention of CPAS are set out in the Act of 8 July 1976 which does not exclude detainees from its scope. I recall that this law is intended to allow the person to lead a life in accordance with human dignity. Its main principles of application are the subject of abundant and relatively constant case law. Indeed, there is a distinction between the respective tasks of the Belgian State, namely its prison administration, on the one hand, and the CPAS, on the other. The former must ensure conditions of detention consistent with human dignity, including access to good physical hygiene and regular health care. These points are also reflected in the law of principles and are not subject to any questioning. CPAS, on the other hand, must ensure that every individual, including detainees, is given the opportunity to lead a life in accordance with human dignity, which includes the possible provision of additional financial resources to those available to them. This is in particular the reasoning held by the Liège Labour Court in its judgment of 2 November 2010. It goes without saying that the substantive courts appreciate these two criteria in concrete terms, but the principle itself is very clear. It is in this context, in particular, that the Federal State provides the necessary medical care for detainees. They are cared for by medical personnel who are paid or even employed by the prison administration. The same applies to medicines and medical treatments. And this can go as far as hospitalization from the DG Prisons budget. With regard specifically to dental prostheses and glasses, the rules of INAMI are applicable. The detainee will take responsibility for what a free person would take care of, with the Belgian State providing for the payment of the balance. It is possible that, in this context, the inmate may appeal to the CPAS, but his situation is no different from that of a free citizen who appeals to the CPAS.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u37	Mr President, Minister, thank you for reminding me of the legal provisions and the main principles, but I also know them: as president of a CPAS, I apply them. Nevertheless, there are still some problems. For example, for the cost of glasses, the inmate must be treated like everyone else, but you know that the financial need exists, which means that I can only act through financial intervention when, normally, when it comes to an inmate, it would be up to the federal state to intervene. So that's what I call a "band transfer" of charges on CPAS. Which act, but it's a shame. We will see later if you get additional means to ensure this charge and not to transfer it to CPAS.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u38	Mr Massin, please excuse me for reminding me of the principles. It was for an educational purpose for parliamentary work rather than for you. Apart from glasses and dental prostheses, I do not hope to be able, together with the Minister of Public Health, to ensure that the state pays the health care premium so that they are taken over by INAMI and not by the prison service. It will not be next Tuesday, but I am in constant contact with Mrs De Block on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u39	Thank you. That would be great news.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u40	Questions No 681 by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and No 683 by Mr Daniel Senesael are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u41	Mr Minister, the Act of 1 August 1985 provides, in its Articles 28 to 41, that a commission set up for this purpose may grant financial assistance from the State to victims of intentional acts of violence committed in Belgium. Since then, the Act has been amended to extend its scope, but also to adapt the way in which it operates in order to facilitate its use, shorten the procedure and increase its visibility. The Court of Auditors has already delivered two reports on this subject. First, it undertook an evaluation of the system and procedures put in place to implement the legal provisions in 2000. The report highlighted many shortcomings in the functioning of the system, including the slow implementation of the system, the worrying increase in the number of cases awaiting decision, the insufficient knowledge of the Commission by the general public, and the length of the procedure for processing cases. The second report, dating back to 2002, made the same observation. I therefore think it is appropriate, Mr Minister, to raise the following questions. Can you tell us, for the last five years, the number of applications submitted to the Commission, the number of cases pending at the end of each year, the time-limits for granting aid on a principal basis and those for emergency aid? What has been the impact of the measures taken so far to address the backlog and shorten the average processing time for cases? Finally, do you consider it necessary to establish a new audit of the functioning of the State financial aid system for victims of intentional acts?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u42	Mr Goffin, I share your interest in the victims of intentional acts of violence. There is still a substantial backlog of requests, although this year the Commission closed 1,310 cases for financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence and occasional rescuers. Only 74 of them could be treated within a period of less than one year. The accumulation of delays remains a matter of concern. I leave at your disposal figures for requests completed in the year of introduction and for the number of files completed in 2014. It is impossible for me to provide the deadlines for granting aid on a primary basis and for emergency aid. Indeed, the Commission for financial aid to victims of intentional acts of violence and occasional rescue workers has informed me that the computer system at its disposal does not allow the calculation of this data without manual intervention. The recommendations of the Court of Auditors have given rise to legislative measures and amendments which are beginning to have a positive effect. The Commission is composed of six chambers and comprises an accountant within its secretariat. It took a long time to initiate the Court of Auditors' recommendation on the recruitment of staff. Before deciding on the need for a new audit, I asked the Commission to provide me with a list of the problems – explaining their causes – and to submit suggestions for filling the backlog. In this regard, the Commission has already drawn my attention to the fact that the processing time of a request depends on four major factors. First, the Commission, members and secretariat: two lawyer members are to be replaced soon but, for the moment, there are enough members to fill this deficit and the difficult situation of the secretariat with absences for illness, absences for duties of the head of department, etc. Secondly, legislation: to be able to apply, certain legal conditions must be met, for example, a complaint, a final judicial decision, etc. There are files that are introduced prematurely and for which there are three solutions: withdrawal, decision on inadmissibility, waiting until the conditions are met. Thirdly, the third parties to be appealed against: medical examinations, information by the public prosecutor's office, the impossibility of obtaining a copy of the files as long as the case is before the courts. Fourthly, the victims: in many cases, the victims did not read or understand the law of 1 August 1985. They submit requests for cases in which the Commission cannot intervene. Closing these files takes time. To this end, the Commission has made available a new application form. The French version has already been sent to the bar of lawyers. In many cases, victims forget to attach documents or do not respond to the secretariat's reminder letters. Completing these files takes time that cannot be reserved for other files.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u43	Minister, I welcome your shared interest in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u44	Minister, you recently left a test balloon in the media to adjust the assistance procedure in our country. You argue that a trial with a People's Jury should be retained only for passionate murders, for example, but not for crimes in a criminal environment or with a terrorist background. As a reason, you indicated that in many such cases citizens refuse to sit on the jury: they are intimidated or afraid or at least they are feared to be intimidated by the suspect. The discussion about assists is certainly not new: a few years ago there was already a reform, which excluded a number of crimes from assists. I am aware that something has to be done about assists, but, frankly, this is my personal point of view - I do like assists. I've had the privilege of pleading a few assist cases. Whoever never did, can't really judge it. I admit that the process must be modernised; there can be some adjustment. I can only think: what I have had can no longer be taken away. Apart from that, the reform of assists is neither in the coalition agreement nor in your policy statement. The debate is fueled and that is good. We also want to enter into this debate. This is the party's position: we do believe that assists need and may be renewed. I have a few questions. Minister, in what sense do you wish to reform assistes? Do you just want to limit the number of cases? Are you thinking of accelerating the process? Of course, that's where the shoe pinches. If you want to make assistants competent only for passionate murders, as a lawyer, I wonder how we can keep passionately and rationally separate. How will that be assessed? This will, of course, be the subject of discussion. Perhaps you are considering completely abolishing assists? Do you think that the system can still bring some added value, given that abolition also means that Article 150 of the Constitution needs to be amended? We know that there's a high price on assists. Do you have any idea what the average price of an assist case was in recent years? How much did that cost the Belgian State? If possible, I'd like to get a split per year. If that is not possible, I can ask a written question about it. Are you planning a consultation with the actors on possible reform, for example in a committee of experts? Or will the committee responsible for examining the criminal proceedings also consider this? If you reform assists, do you already have a time frame in mind? Or does your proposal end with a test balloon?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u45	Following that question, Minister, I had also asked myself a question about the future of the Court of Assistes. The reason is a ruling by the European Court of Human Rights on 18 November. Belgium was convicted in four different cases for failing to motivate judgments of the Court of Assistes. That's an old very, which has been known for a long time. In addition, the four persons currently serving a prison sentence in our country are awarded compensation of more than EUR 10 000. That's a shame, of course. We know that there was a ruling in the Taxquet case in 2009. The court then reminded Belgium that statements of a jury of the Court of Assists must be sufficiently motivated. Afterwards, the Code of Criminal Procedure was amended. I would like to continue on what you have declared and in your policy statement, Minister. You would reserve assists to the most serious violent crimes, whether passionate or not. Maybe it's about the things that make the books? I do not know exactly how that will have to be defined. The measure shall be tested. There are supporters and opponents of the assistance procedure, even among lawyers. This is also mentioned in law training. There are also supporters and opponents in public opinion. You have said that you want to reserve the assistance procedure to the most serious crimes of violence. An assessment by a People's Jury would remain appropriate for this purpose. I conclude from this that you are not considering abolishing the entire assistance procedure. I have three specific questions. Firstly, what concrete consequences do the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights have for those concerned? Secondly, do you consider that Article 334 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides sufficient guarantees on the basis of adequate justification for judgments of the Court of Assists in order to avoid such judgments of the European Court of Justice? Thirdly, what reform measures will you take in connection with the assistance procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u46	Allow me first to answer the questions about the European Court of Justice. In each of the judgments of the European Court of Justice, in particular the judgments in Gybels, Khaledian, Hechtermans and Yimam v Belgium, moral damages of EUR 2 000 have been awarded to those concerned. In the Hechtermans judgment, EUR 3 183 will be added as compensation for expenses. The European Court also recalls in each of the judgments the possibility to request the reopening of justice. However, Article 442a of the Code of Criminal Procedure, introduced by the Act of 1 April 2007, provides for this possibility only after a final judgment of the European Court of Justice establishing that proceedings in the internal legal order have infringed the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms or the additional protocols. Since the Law of 21 December 2009 on the reform of the Court of Assistes, the obligation to state reasons for the Assisenjury has been enshrined in the Law. The law thus followed, inter alia, the case law of the European Court of Justice, which ruled on 13 January 2009 that the Belgian State infringed the European Convention on Human Rights in the Taxquet case. The court found that the right to a fair trial was violated by the absence of a statement of reasons in the judgment of the Court of Assistes. From now on, after voting on the question of guilt, the jury will withdraw to the deliberations room together with the court. Without having to reply to all the conclusions laid down, they shall formulate the main reasons for their decision. Previously, the jury was only obliged to answer yes or no to the questions of the President of the Court of Assistes. The current legal provisions provide the necessary guarantees as to the justification for the judgments of the Court of Assistes. In the judgments cited above, the European Court of Human Rights found that there was also an infringement of Article 6 (1) of the ECHR. Those judgments are in line with the Taxquet judgment. The cases all date from before the entry into force of 21 December 2009 to reform the court. The obligation to state reasons currently laid down in Article 334 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is in line with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. As regards the planned reform of the Court of Assists, I refer you to the government agreement, which states that the government will decide on the basic concept and the fundamental orientations for future criminal proceedings. With regard to the reform of the assistance procedure, my policy statement also states that, following one of the suggestions of the Criminal Justice Network of the College of Attorneys General on the bottlenecks in criminal proceedings, it will be examined whether a list of crimes, in particular those committed in a criminal organisation or gang, can be assigned exclusively to a specialised chamber of the correctional court, rather than to the court of assistants. In this way, the assistance procedure can be reserved for the most serious crimes of passion for which the assessment by a People's Jury remains appropriate. I shall therefore put forward proposals to the Council of Ministers on the fundamental guidelines for future criminal proceedings, including the assistance procedure. Of course, in the reform, I will ensure that, if necessary, the obligation to state reasons for the jury will be properly implemented, in order to exclude further convictions on that legal basis. The way in which this distinction will be made, if any, is not yet determined, in terms of the passionate acts of violence and the other offences which would no longer be subject to assists. As you know, Article 150 of the Constitution was declared eligible for revision. However, the coalition agreement does not mention the abolition of the procedure before the court. This procedure certainly has added value to the trial of certain crimes. The reform of the procedure may, however, be part of the revision of criminal procedure law. The cost of an assistance procedure is high, but my administration does not currently have a calculation of the average price of an assist case. For very specific, large and media-like assists processes, there is an assessment of the costs to be incurred, so that a specific commission can be provided for. This is a case-by-case calculation on the basis of a pre-arranged specific needs assessment by the Chair of an Assisting Process. For a number of large and special assistive processes from the past, after the process has been completed, the price tag has been drawn up, but these are highly visible processes with high rising costs and these are not sufficiently representative to derive an average from them. There is therefore no average cost calculation of an assist case because the costs are spread according to the nature of the expenditure, for example part in witness pay, part in compensation to sworn representatives, interpretation costs, rental of a simultaneous translation installation, hire of extra cell boxes because the number of suspects to appear cannot be in the waiting cells of the assist building and so on. This exercise will have to be made as part of the workload measurement and the new control model. I am in constant consultation with various actors of justice, in particular with regard to the reform of criminal proceedings. It goes without saying that these consultations will continue. As announced, a draft law will be submitted in 2015 with a view to achieving a number of punctual adaptations, which should, inter alia, make criminal proceedings more efficient. The thorough reform will, of course, take more time, and I will have to make use of the full duration of this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u47	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. The sober lawyer in me says it's good, because the system is being reformed and something about the costs will be done. Something will also be done about the cumbersome, long and not always more modern procedure. The emotional lawyer in me, on the other hand, is pleased that some of the proceedings can continue. I admit, quite frankly, that in my opinion, an assist case is the summum of argument. Minister, I have been able to experience this in difficult cases. I notice that, especially when it comes to passionate facts, there is a certain catharsis. The families of the victims also come to justice, more than that is the case at a normal weekday morning in a court of law, where they are one of the many cases dealt with. They're a number in line. This is sometimes forgotten throughout the discussion on assists. I take note of the principle. For the rest, the reform of assists must be covered by the thorough and larger reform and cannot quickly be put into potpourri legislation. The fact that the exercise on cost can be made is always useful. We saw the same thing earlier. Measuring is always knowing. Not everything can be derived from measurements, but some things can. You know that I am very curious and would like to participate in the great reform, especially of criminal law and criminal procedure. After all, our criminal law really needs reform. So I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u48	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. As you can see, the process of assisting lawyers raises mixed feelings, even beyond the passionate level. I think the road itself would be good. Perhaps it would be useful to maintain the assistance procedure, especially for matters of major concern to society. For the rest, it may be possible to move towards rationalisation because of the cost of a serious case assistance procedure, which may also be dealt with professionally by professional magistrates. I look forward to that list of crimes that you will draw up and will follow this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u49	Mr President, the reform of the Court of Assizes will promise us an exciting and passionate debate on its interest. At the time, I had launched a focus group on the subject, some of which would be interesting to take up. Minister, you have postponed the debate on the budget and the policy note. I very much hope that this postponement will bring us good surprises and that you will be able to escape the linearity of the effort decided by the government for all the departments. Otherwise, I have the worst fears for the Department of Justice. As you know, there are already short-term problems. In some places, the framework is far from being filled at 90%. In addition, there are a number of difficulties related to long-term absences or specific difficulties in Brussels, in the follow-up to the judicial BHV reform. It has come back to us that the registry of the French-speaking commercial court in Brussels is in a pile of cases waiting to be typed. Employees have had enough and, according to them, due to lack of resources in the coming days, they will close the registry of the commercial court every afternoon. This will obviously cause problems for lawyers – you are one of them and you know what kinds of problems they may encounter – but also for litigants as they change access to the public. It would be interesting to see if you have the same information as I do and if discussions are under way to avoid this situation. On the other hand, it also seems that some judges no longer have adequate staff simply to function, to sit. Are you aware of this situation? How do you imagine you can respond to these magistrates? This will be discussed again next week, but in its report, the Court of Auditors points out that no additional staff appropriations are foreseen to supplement the judicial system by 100 %, as required by the law which I had the honour to negotiate and establishing the new judicial district of BHV. What about it? In particular, 313 clerks are missing. It's huge! The situation is not entirely new. What is new is the lack of resources, it seems, that you are left with for your budget to move towards a better situation. Perhaps you have a magic wand or some little tricks that would make it possible to wait for the big reform or some good news about the budget? I think magistrates and clerks have a lot of expectations. I have been questioned many times about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u50	Mr President, Mr Onkelinx, my answer will be quantitative, but sometimes the figures can be excellent information. First, I will confirm to you that the president of the French-speaking commercial court in Brussels, in consultation with the acting chief clerk, has taken the decision to have the registry of this court work in closed offices from 12.30 p.m. as soon as next week, while providing for a permanence from 2.00 p.m. to 4.00 p.m. for extremely urgent deposits, which cannot be legally carried out the next day. The motivation for this measure is twofold. On the one hand, following the reform of the judicial district of Brussels-Hal-Vilvorde, on 1 April 2014, the Registry has, in addition to the chief clerk, five clerks appointed and in office on a cadre of 18 clerks, i.e. 16 clerks and 2 clerks heads of department, and 10 assistants on a cadre of 15. On the other hand, the court's workload has increased considerably as a result of the amendment of article 573, 1° of the Judicial Code, by the law of 26 March 2014, which has conferred on the commercial court since 1 July 2014 the jurisdiction to hear disputes from companies, including those which, amounting to less than 1,860 euros, had so far been brought before the justice of the peace. Finally, since only one typist is currently in service, compared to four in the former bilingual court, the number of draft decisions still to be typed is constantly increasing. This situation requires some comments and reactions. You know, first of all, that the executives of the Brussels courts have been increased by the duplication of the different courts, including the clerks and administrative staff. It is clear that the Registry must be able to benefit from the staff needed to cope with the workload. The total scope of the registry of the French-speaking commercial court in Brussels, including experts, assistants and collaborators, is 59. The current strength is 53.2. The court may, within this framework, benefit from delegations in the office of Registrar – currently there are 12 such delegations – in order to fill the absence of appointed clerks. The absence of one or two typists does not seem to us to affect the functioning of the jurisdiction. One might wonder whether the existence of a pool of typists in a modern working environment is still justified. A series of vacant places had already been published in June and the selections ended. The decrees of appointment of two clerks and one administrative assistant will have to be submitted to the King's signature. In addition, a new publication of the vacant places is being prepared, in consultation with the judicial authorities, in line with the government agreement. To this end, the Chief Registrar was contacted on 26 November 2014 to determine the exact profiles and job descriptions for the places to be published again this year. I cannot, of course, foresee the number of candidates applying for these places, but I hope that there will be enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u51	We have confirmation that the situation is extremely difficult. Some elements are moving. You have spoken of decrees that will soon be submitted for signature. On the other hand, we have no element on 100% filling, judicial BHV, as provided for in the law and in accordance with the agreement of the eight parties that negotiated judicial BHV. I have therefore received no reply on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u52	Mrs Onkelinx, I do not have all the figures at the moment, but I can tell you that, as a matter of priority, for Brussels francophone, there will be three job offers in the first instance in December and ten in the public prosecutor's office. It is already a certain consolation for you. We are trying to do our best in this regard. I'll give you the final figures next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u53	I will wait until next Tuesday to draw conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u54	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 149 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Cauter's 701, 703, 705 and 706 have been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 681 by Mrs Cassart-Mallieux has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u55	According to experts, religious radicalism is an observable phenomenon in many prisons, both in Belgium and abroad. Prisons were already identified as a suitable place for radicalization and recruitment of militant Islamists, in a 2007 report of the International Centre for the Study of Radicalization and Political Violence. In Belgium, both wardens and prison guards and visitors are increasingly denouncing a trend towards radicalization of Muslim prisoners in prisons. Some radical leaders take advantage of the practice of Muslim religion in prison to encourage other detainees to practice fundamentalist Islam. There are many reasons for some prisoners to opt for radicalism and the consequences of such a transformation can be disastrous. According to some analyses, if radicalism in prison is expressed more in the religious fact than in terrorism, it is not a phenomenon to be taken lightly. Unfortunately, there is very little information available on this subject in Belgium. To date, there are no studies or reports to objectify the reality of this phenomenon. In our neighbours, in England or France, detailed and regular reports identify the mechanisms of radical proselytism, the consequences of these practices and possible remedies. Minister, are you aware of a form of religious radicalism in Belgian prisons? Do you have any specific information or data on radical proselytism in the country's prisons? Are you planning to prepare a report or study on this? As we are at the beginning of the legislature, what policy do you intend to pursue on this particular subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u56	Mr President, in the circumstances, there are risks of radicalisation. In recent years, particularly as a result of various judicial actions, the number of detainees for terrorist-related acts has increased. This requires special attention on our part, given the status they enjoy with several young prisoners. The prison administration and the local authorities are aware of this risk and take the necessary measures when necessary, for example in terms of the detention regime. Training and awareness-raising campaigns on this issue are also organized. In addition to operational initiatives in the prisons themselves, limiting the contacts of potential recruiters with other detainees, a cooperation protocol has been concluded between the State Security and the Prisons Directorate-General, whose main objective is to facilitate the exchange of information in both directions. State Security is also active in Plan R – for radicalism – where consultation is conducted with the various partners on this phenomenon. This plan was approved by the Ministerial Intelligence and Security Committee. The process had already begun in 2007 with the training and sensitization of prison staff on the issue of radicalization in prison. The Minister of Justice will pay particular attention to this, in accordance with the Government Agreement. This topic is also at the centre of ongoing consultation with European partners, in order to draw lessons from each other's initiatives in this area. In addition, I refer you to the government agreement, which provides that the intelligence services and the OCAM pay particular attention to radicalization in prisons. To do this, a solution will be sought, among other things within the framework of the masterplan "Principles". The situation is therefore being monitored with the necessary attention by all the actors concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic033x.u57	Mr Minister, thank you and wish you a good European meeting tomorrow.
