ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u2	Mr President, Mr Minister, you are very much in demand for the moment, and in my opinion yesterday afternoon your ears must have whistled a few times. We missed you in the Committee on Social Affairs when your colleague, Mrs De Block, tabled amendments from the Government concerning the programme law, especially when she referred to the abolition of automatic allocation of the welfare envelope, and this, in the absence of the opinion of the social partners, which you saw this morning if my information is good. I recall that this mechanism had been introduced at the request of the Socialist Party in the Competitiveness Pact to maintain a balance in the event of a unilateral reduction in burdens. This removal of automaticity will therefore allow the government to take over solo. It could be deduced from your colleague's explanations that the social partners recognized the validity of this measure – which I was somewhat surprised to hear – and that this measure came out of informal contacts with the social partners. I have therefore proposed to the committee that you be invited so that you can give us more details on these informal discussions. The explanations were then much more nuanced. I learned that informal contacts would aim to regain a good mood. I'm dubious. I did not know that a Deputy Prime Minister was responsible for making contacts with the social partners only to regain a good mood... Beyond the joke, Deputy Prime Minister, what happened yesterday is not at all anecdotal! Today morning, we had a meeting of the Group of 10. I assume the meeting will be extended. We are on the eve of a national strike, and now the government is in power to put in place a measure to eliminate social dialogue. I had even asked for the National Labour Council to pronounce itself, like the Council of State, but my request was rejected. We have the clear impression that we need to put the unions at a standstill. As a peacemaker, you are becoming the fosseur of social consultation! Minister, I come to simple questions. Do you confirm that at your informal meetings you tested the "well-being envelope" component and that you felt a favourable opinion about the abolition of automaticity? Do you not think that any provocation against workers and trade unions should be stopped? When you are offered social consultation as well as to seek the opinion of the National Labour Council, it would be appropriate to grasp the hand that is stretched out to you. I take this opportunity to ask you solemnly whether you will respect the right to strike and whether you will oppose any attempt to limit this right.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to limit yourself to a speaking time of 2 minutes, as provided for in our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the eve of a general strike following a series of other strikes. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, you have already said this on several occasions, and I think that is true, you have the will to negotiate. But it must be noted that the other partners of your majority are constantly making statements that are more frantic and muscular than each other, and as a result you are slipping banana skins under your feet, closing each time a little more the possibilities for real negotiations. The urgency today, in view of the situation in recent weeks, is to emerge from this spiral, from this balance of forces that will lead no one anywhere. The government's responsibility in this area is heavy. It is up to you to create a framework for these negotiations. This morning, for the first time since the beginning of these strikes, the Group of 10 met. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is this meeting going to initiate a dialogue? You yourself, have you now established a genuine timetable for negotiations? Finally, is the government ready to negotiate, or is it simply statements but bogus consultations?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u5	Deputy Prime Minister, over the past few weeks, our country has been going through an organized, if not orchestrated, strike movement, whether rotating or national. The next strike is scheduled for Monday, December 15. However, the National Bank, in its last report, makes very explicit reference to substantial employment gains as a result of the Swedish Government's provisions, namely 33,000 jobs through index jumps and almost 60,000 jobs through all the measures. However, despite these measures necessary for the general interest, strikes continue. Even today, part of the SNCB is on strike. Worse, union actions are already planned for January 2015. One of the first steps taken by Charles Michel and yourself, then trainers, had been to meet the unions. In this context, and bearing in mind the Government's repeated willingness to work together and to take into account the views of the social partners, including the Group of 10 through social consultation - because I know that you are committed to it with strength and conviction - I would have wished to know where you were in the social dialogue, particularly on the eve of the national strike of 15 December. What is the status of your bilateral and multilateral contacts with the various social partners? I would also like to know how the contacts and discussions with the Group of 10 have evolved between your meeting last October and this morning. What dynamics do you think will emerge with regard to consultation within this framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u6	Mr President, Minister, you have made a great deal of efforts over the last few weeks to relaunch the social dialogue. You have also reported on this in the relevant Chambers Committee. You have already managed to get the Group of Ten round the table again this morning, which is not evident in these times of social unrest. Our group is very concerned about the social dialogue and appreciates your efforts. In the meantime, however, time does not stand still. Last week you made a number of proposals for adjustments and transitional measures concerning the time-credit, the supplementary unemployment scheme, runways and so on. Your proposals were welcomed, although there was no unanimous opinion. The question is, of course, how the government handles it. Are the proposals maintained or not? After all, people and administrations must now be given clear and accurate information very quickly in order to be able to take the decisions they need to take in the light of the end-of-life arrangements. Secondly, a number of important dossiers will be on the table in the coming weeks, such as the report by the Central Council for Business. New negotiations on an interprofessional agreement are also on the way, and you have also asked for an opinion on the welfare envelope. This morning you brought together the Group of Ten. Were there any appointments made at that meeting? Any progress? What initiatives will you take after next Monday to strengthen the social dialogue in the coming weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u7	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today, like the last few days and weeks, a group has decided to stop. I believe that everyone who works and does so in this country has felt it. Mr Minister, in all honesty and in my personal name, I am ai marre. What is more, a trade unionist's statement that the strikers will not allow themselves to be done by people who want to work, which, according to my group, goes too far. The right to work is worth as much as the right to strike. The right to work is even sacred to me and to the group. No one can control it, not even the trade unions. No one can stop the people who want to work, or boycott them to deny them access to their workplace. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you do not know, but there is only one right that is absolute in the world, and that is not the right to strike; that is the ban on torture. That is an absolute right, but the right to strike is not. In the meantime, Minister, you are engaged in social dialogue. There is a lot of unrest and a lot of important decisions have to be made. These decisions are the subject of social consultation and will have a major impact on the lives of the working people. I am thinking, among other things, of the bridge pension and the time loan. My first question is how far you stand with the social dialogue. My second question is what will this government do to guarantee the right to work, which is as important as the right to strike?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u8	Mr President, Mr Minister of Labour, I am sorry. It is not easy to play firefighters in a government of arsonists, even though you must admit that you are playing firefighters. We could talk at length – we have done so in the debate on your policy note – about the measures you are taking on integration allowance, time credit. That said, yesterday, your Government and yourself as Minister for Social Concertation submitted amendments to Parliament to the Intergenerational Solidarity Pact, without the prior opinion of the social partners. It's a real act of provocation. It is not a way – it seems to us – of renewing the social dialogue that is important in our country. Last Thursday, the Management Committee of the ONEM did not give a unanimous opinion on the government's unfair measures, in particular on the measures taken in respect of time credit such as end-of-care credit, the measures relating to integration allowance which will result in the exclusion of tens of thousands of young people from the scheme. In my view, the government must take into account what is being said on the street, social movements. These are, in the end, reactions to unfair measures that will deprive the most fragile of us of several billion euros during the parliamentary term. Minister, what are you going to do to renew the dialogue with the social partners? What are you going to put on the table? What are the inflections that can be expected from the government that has made unjust and inefficient economic and social choices?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have asked a lot of questions and I will try to answer them all. The first concerns the six royal decrees. In this respect, I can tell you that the core of this has come together several times and has made adjustments to make the transitional measures more humane without jeopardising the objectives. This morning, these six royal decrees were adopted in an electronic Council of Ministers. Of course, the CABs still have to go to the Council of State for advice and there will be a second reading in the government. This is, however, a first step by which the government makes it clear that it wants to give the social dialogue every opportunity, that it listens to a number of pertinent comments and that it does everything possible to respond to them properly and without questioning the coalition agreement and its objectives. I wonder what the Council of State will say about this. We have asked for an opinion within five days, so next week we will get the opinions of the Council of State and look at how we deal with it in a second reading. Mr President, last week I explained the changes that were being made. Perhaps all this could be reviewed in committee. Mr Massin, I'm always ready to answer if I'm invited. If you invite me and my colleague, Mr Massin, we will be happy to come to the Committee on Social Affairs. The second element is the outstanding issue of employee/worker status. I asked the Group of 10 to organize a meeting. You're right, the Group of 10 met this morning. The Group of Ten has been together for five hours. It took a long time for the Group of Ten to sit around the table again. I believe that this is a first, very small step in the right direction. Five hours have been spent discussing the loose ends in the file on the equalisation of the status of workers and servants. I understand that the next few days will see each other again to continue the conversation. In addition to adjusting the royal decisions to make the transitional measures more acceptable, I would like to emphasise a second positive point, namely that the Group of Ten has again found each other. This is a first cautious step. We must not crow victory too quickly. There's still a long way to go. However, they have seen each other and soon they will see each other again. Your third point concerns the wellness envelope and its content. I have dealt with this matter discreetly with the employers and the employees separately. You can see that sometimes good intentions are interpreted differently. I know that the previous government had introduced very important automatic indicators into the law. If the social partners had no agreement, they would be applied automatically. I can tell you that the government absolutely wants to give the social partners a chance to give advice on this welfare envelope. They know very well that the responsibility to come up with an opinion is very great. If they do not give advice, it is not the automatic indicators that apply, but it is the government's decision. I think it is a healthy position for the social partners to have a chance. We will specifically ask them to give an opinion on the distribution of wealth, but I also think it is normal that, if the social partners fail, then it is the primacy of politics, the responsibility of this federal government to take a decision on this matter. The report of the Central Council for Business is a very important document. I understand that in the course of next week, on the basis of a technical report, it will be made clear how the wage gap in Belgium relates to the Netherlands, France and Germany and how we can and must deal with the result. As you know, a clear procedure has also been agreed in the 1996 law. We shall also respect that procedure. The government therefore has the final say on wage standards. We shall therefore continue to do so. The final point is social dialogue. This is a very difficult exercise because, on the one hand, we are organising actions and strikes and, on the other hand, we must prepare social dialogue and, after 15 December, we must prepare everything to enable social dialogue to take place. That's a very difficult exercise. We have put forward a proposal to the Group of Ten, which has come together today, on the welfare envelope, on which they can discuss further, and which we will then take into account, together with the other elements I have indicated, in order to enable this social dialogue to take place. I think that majority and opposition should encourage this social dialogue. We must beware of statements that would make social dialogue more difficult. We all have an interest in ensuring that social dialogue succeeds and that we can also draw the necessary added value from it. Mr President, I understand that there is another question about the right to strike and the right to work: how should one be reconciled and respected? I will be happy to answer that, but I now conclude that the social dialogue is made possible step by step, that this federal government attaches great importance to it, that it gives the social partners room, but if that space is not filled out and there is no way to move forward, then the government itself will decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u10	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, first of all, I understand your unease. Indeed, working by imitating the procession of Echternach, if not more since you practice walking one step forward and then two steps backwards, is never rejoicing. You're talking about social consultation, you're even advocating social consultation. In fact, it must be practiced at the right time, before deciding on certain measures. Without this, you move forward as in the procession of Echternach. In your position, given the ideas of your party, I can understand that you are particularly uncomfortable. Secondly, when we invite you – and an invitation has indeed been made – it should be announced to your majority partners that you agree to come. What happened was that your partners decided that you should not respond to this invitation. I'm sorry, but if that's what social consultation is all about, we've gone very badly! Finally, the well-being envelope: before, it worked, there were agreements. Now, you want to ignore assignments, you prefer to go over and take over, if there is no social consultation within a particularly short period of time. I'm very sad about your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u11	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, this is not the first time that I have heard you use the Coué method to try to convince your government partners to stop their shattering statements. I do not know whether to do so in plenary will have more effect on them, but I think you are right to do so. Indeed, your responsibility today and that of all the government's partners is to get out of this infernal spiral, to get out of this balance of forces which, as I said earlier, will ultimately benefit no one. To build that confidence, it will obviously be a matter of consultation on the substance, of putting more equity in the efforts requested, of having a more ambitious tax reform, of moving forward on the tax shift to reduce the cost of work, not to mention dealing with other issues, such as qualitative measures and incentives to lengthen careers. Inaction or paralysis are not possible options today. Please, Deputy Prime Minister, negotiate, concert, but not superficially! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u12	Deputy Prime Minister, I thank you for this clear and precise information, which corresponds to the government agreement. I hope that your next meetings will bring about the desired rapprochements, enabling our country to move forward, to reform structurally, to maintain the employment rate and to create new jobs for the well-being of all and for the generations to come. We know that this government is at the heart of its approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u13	We congratulate Mrs Thoron on her Mayden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In any case, there is now clarity about the adjustment and transitional measures, which offers a lot of workers a perspective to better organise the end of their careers. I call on the social partners to assume their responsibilities in the Group of Ten. Perhaps they could take an example from the social partners in the non-profit sector, both employers' and employees' organisations, who urgently call for social dialogue on the use of EUR 30 million and the creation of 700 new jobs. That is what we are talking about in the end: the efforts we are asking of the citizens must lead to employment. We hope that the social dialogue can make an important contribution to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u15	Mr Minister, I have two comments to make. First of all, I am pleased that you, together with the government, have accepted your responsibility with regard to the time-credit and bridge-retirement CRDs. Secondly, you say that, as far as the single statute is concerned, the Group of Ten met on the small items that still had to be settled. I understand they're in a sniffing phase. So it is not what it has to be, but it is of course good that one is sniffing each other out. That can always lead to more. In any case, I hope that, after 15 December, everyone, including the trade unions, will return to their speeches and accept their responsibilities. After all, there is a lot on the table. You referred to the welfare envelope. The social partners must leave the streets and come back to the table to represent the workers and defend their interests. There is only one way to do that: together with the government at the table. I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u16	Minister, you are a badly equipped and not very effective firefighter! It is not in discussions on issues at the margin, with minimal adjustments or by accepting that members of the government play the challenge to those who are worried about their future that we are going to get there all the time! If the Belgians are angry and worried, there are reasons! They know how to count and they understand what your government's plan was. A change of course is needed for choices that are fairer and more effective. And it's possible! I always hear there's no alternative. Yes, I do! In tax matters, it is possible to better combat tax fraud and to have fairer taxation. In the social field, you have to go back to these measures which will affect young people and people who wish to ease their careers through a credit-time, so that they can eventually work longer. These signals could bring back a form of social peace and dialogue, which is obviously necessary in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u17	Minister, you are always full of social dialogue. I listened carefully to your answer to the previous question. At Ford, a social plan was approved by the social partners and ministers. You know this file, Minister. After all, I also saw you at the gates of Ford Genk, where you said you would help the workers at the difficult stage they stood for. Before 7 November, the people who are going to receive a bridge pension had to make a choice. It was not an easy choice, and if they could really choose, they would have much preferred to continue to work. But they had to choose, because there was no alternative. They made their choice on the basis of the agreements made in the social plan, in accordance with current legislation. You want to change that now. I have heard that the royal decree on this matter was approved this morning. I have the following questions. First of all, is that the respect you have for the social dialogue? There's an agreement, but you're breaking it. Secondly, can you tell me clearly what the consequences are for those people? They will be unemployed from 1 January. Does this mean that the exemption will apply to all those who are 60 years old, or not? I would like to hear from you what the concrete consequences are for these people. So please do not answer that you will retain the seniority allowance for older workers, because this does not matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all of you have read the coalition agreement and have been able to see that all unemployed and all persons in the SWT system, i.e. those with a bridge pension, must be available for the labour market from 1 January 2015 until the age of 65. That is the so-called active and passive availability. The control of this availability is a regional competence, as you know. The RVA shall, where appropriate, punish on the basis of the relevant regional employment and mediation services. Let me make it clear once again that we have had separate contacts with employers and employees. We have also tried to respond to the aspirations of the workers to amend the royal decrees in question. You will say that this is not a real social dialogue. The social partners were not allowed to give their opinion on the measures to be taken, after which the government then tried to pour them into KBBBs. No, I drew your attention to the clear language of the coalition agreement. We have agreed a number of adjustments in the government. The original KBs have been modified. Those who are 60 years of age or older on 1 January 2015 are not covered by the provisions of active and passive availability. There is a specific problem for the people of Ford Genk with a career of 38 years. I am aware of that. We have not yet solved this problem. I solved the problem for those who are 60 years of age or older, but what about those who have a career of 38 years of age, when they are under 60 years of age? They have expressly chosen their employer Ford Genk to no longer be available for the labour market. They also did not participate in the employment cell, which resulted in them losing six months' pay. I am well aware of this problem. In the coming days, I will consult with the RVA and the regional ministers of work to see how we can make the necessary adjustments to this particular dossier for the people of Ford Genk. I understand this triggers a reaction. They made a certain choice at the time. Now there is a new federal government that makes other choices, and they feel they are the victims of them. I understand that very well. I have to answer this. I will discuss this in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u19	Minister, I am glad that you understand the problem: that is a first step. Secondly, 1 January is no longer far away. You know it's about thousands of people. You also know that Ford is trying to manage all that well. This has an impact on a lot of people at Ford Genk. Make it quite clear very quickly, because you are becoming more and more the government of broken words rather than of social dialogue. I hope that you will make a real effort here.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u20	Minister, today we are faced with a second social action in a week. Several hundred train drivers have managed to cause serious damage to public transport again today. This actually makes it difficult for all those working in our country to get to work. The right to strike is an internationally recognised right. Our group does not question that. However, the right to work is also an internationally recognised right. Both are equal. In our country there is no legal framework for the exercise of the right to strike. Today we see the consequences of this, to the unacceptable. In the past few weeks' strikes, we have seen that ports were completely unreachable, that public infrastructure was occupied and no longer available, that companies were occupied and that access to industrial sites was blocked. This is contrary to the right to work and has nothing to do with the right to strike. The right to strike means taking social action by not going to work. However, preventing others from going to work cannot and has nothing to do with it. The Dutch have actually perfectly summarized it in an article in De Telegraaf last week with the title "The Belgians stopped their economy. If it happens that way, we will do it effectively. Mr Minister, we do not have a legal framework in this area today. It is also not evident to defend itself against excesses, which have nothing to do with the right to strike. One must go to a bailiff and launch a one-sided petition. Do you envisage developing a legal framework to better define, protect and at the same time protect the right to work?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u21	Mr Lachaert, we do not have a specific strike law in Belgium. The right to strike is, of course, a fundamental social right guaranteed by international conventions. The European Social Charter also provides for this. I suspect no one here in the hemisphere is questioning the right to strike. Taking part in a strike is an individual right. I hope everyone agrees on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u22	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u23	I hope that and those who do not agree will have to speak later. That is not the point of discussion. The discussion is about whether we should go further and therefore create a specific strike law, in which we rightly referred to it, Mr Lachaert, who also explicitly subscribes to the right to work. I thought back to the year 2002. I do not know if you remember this, but in 2002 business sites were blocked and roads closed. At that time, the government decided to encourage the social partners themselves to conclude a number of agreements on this matter. That was also the case in 2002, with the signing of the so-called gentlemen's agreement. That agreement was signed by very interesting people. I was also part of the Group of Ten at the time. (Laughter) You were also very actively involved, Mrs Onkelinx. The social partners, both the employers' organisations and the workers' organisations, agreed at that time that agreements had to be made. They did. I quote: "Workers' organisations will make a solemn recommendation to all their members to avoid any recourse to physical or material violence in collective conflicts and to ensure the safeguarding of the working instrument. That was agreed. I hope, Mr Lachaert, ladies and gentlemen, that the gentlemen's agreement, which is a poor translation for gentlemen's agreement, will also be respected in practice. For anyone who wants to strike, there's no problem. However, anyone who wants to work must also be given the opportunity to do so in a decent way. We simply have to respect the agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u24	Minister, I am very pleased with your reply. We will look forward with great interest to the strike announced before Monday and to examining how the principles of the gentlemen's agreement will or will not be applied. However, I am a little shocked. During the last few weeks, there have been industrial sites and workers have been intimidated not to go to work. That is unacceptable. My group will look very carefully at what is happening. If the agreements are not respected, other initiatives in the hemisphere will be needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u25	Mr Minister, this certainly has not escaped you: in the news of the last few days, a subject is resurfaced, that of the tax on big fortunes, of the taxation of capital. Trade union officials from the FPS Finances – they're my former colleagues! I was also a trade union delegate with them – published a white card in the press, in which they asked for the introduction of a tax on wealth. There is also a survey that you will certainly have noticed. It reveals that in Flanders - but it is also valid in the French-speaking part of the country - 85% of the population is in favour of a tax on wealth! Of course, this percentage differs from one political family to another. In PTB, it is 98 per cent. We have 98 per cent of our voters defending a wealth tax. But 77% of N-VA voters – I don't know if you noticed, minister – are asking for a wealth tax. What a difference since the time, five years ago, the PTB launched its campaign to tax the biggest fortunes. If we felt rather alone, today we have indeed made progress! Even on the CD&V, I hear that taxing capital is an equally defended idea, isn't it, Mr. Van Rompuy? That's quite an intriguing thing! I will explain our proposal to you because it may inspire you, minister. At the PTB, we are defending a millionaire tax, which would be in the range of 1 to 3 per cent depending on the level of wealth. This measure could bring in EUR 8 billion. What for? To finance social welfare, to finance pensions, to finance public services, to finance education. My question, Minister, is to know the government's clear position on the taxation of big fortunes, capital. Will you apply it yes or no? When and how?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, with regard to the letter from the eight officials of the FPS Finances, my answer will be brief and clear: they have the right to have their opinion. I respect her. I hope that they also respect the opinions of others. For the rest, I do not want to comment. On the other hand, the government agreement does not provide for capital taxes. It does, however, provide for a tax shift. Measures to this end are being developed. The agreement also gives impetus to a complementary tax shift. I quote the government agreement: "The government will control spending and implement a tax and parafiscal shift to finance a substantial reduction of the burden so as to reduce the tax and parafiscal burden on labour, taking into account national and international recommendations in this area". That's what I had to say about the facts. Everything else is premature. In fact, the government agreement states "...without wishing to anticipate...".
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u27	Minister, excuse me for laughing, but when I hear you talking about a tax shift that would involve capital, I desperately seek where it is in the government agreement and in the bills that are being tabled. Initially, 2% of the effort was demanded from the capital. This was reflected in the budget for the legislature. But the only two measures affecting capital (the bank contribution and the Cayman tax) disappear in the 2015 budget. Let me laugh! I would like to tell you that the social emergency is there, the social emergency of pensioners who will receive less pension, who will be taxed, workers who will lose part of their wages. Minister, it is today that they are affected. It is today that they demand the contribution of capital rather than being punctured once again!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u28	Mr President, this is not a question about the ruling. This is a question about the BelgoLeaks – since we have been talking about LuxLeaks for a few weeks already, which requires a strong reaction at Belgian and European level. The Prime Minister here, five weeks ago, agreed. He would close his answer to my colleagues by saying, and I quote, his "determination that the tax rules should be respected fairly here and in Europe". It is necessary to move from speech to action, rather than to act in contradiction with words. This Monday, you were very proud to announce an agreement with your counterpart the Luxembourg Finance Minister, who was going to pass on to us all the rules concerning Belgian companies in the LuxLeaks. It seems, since then, that this is not entirely correct. All right. But it appears above all today that Belgium practises exactly the same way in the context of the procedure of excess profit ruling, and allows multinational companies to escape the right tax, with great reinforcement of advertising: "Come to us, you will not pay any tax and we will not tell anyone!" Others, SMEs, which create activity and employment at home, which fight to maintain employment under difficult conditions, are subject to the theoretical tax rate, or almost 30%. A tax haven for some, a tax hell for others. It is neither fair nor effective, it requires reaction! The first of the reactions to be made is to create transparency on these special, secret mechanisms that allow multinationals not to pay taxes. Minister, I give you a chance to create a start on transparency. Do you confirm this figure that appears today in the newspaper of some 60 rulings that would have benefited multinationals? Can you tell us – I have tried to get the information already via different questions – what is the amount of tax evaded by this mechanism for the benefit of multinationals? Above all, can you make the commitment, as you ask the Grand-Ducal colleagues, to make all the transparency on these rules? Will you publish them, with the names of the beneficiaries, and forward them on initiative to the foreign tax administrations concerned with these files?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u29	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon's sitting is not open to superficial controversy. It began with a very respectful tribute to Queen Fabiola and is also marked by the Prime Minister's absence for the reasons we know. Following the test that he has to face, I would like to address him, on my own behalf, but I am sure that it is a shared feeling, a message of sympathy. [[Applause]] The question I wish to ask the Minister of Finance is not at all controversial. It is a fundamental issue that concerns the principle of fiscal transparency, which is really at the heart of the day. The government has decided to postpone any debate on tax reform pending better fiscal days or agreement within the majority. This postponement of tax reform is a problem, however, because the tax issue is at the heart of social affairs. Social reactions to government savings measures, index jumps, pension measures, dark cuts can be interpreted as it is ideologically felt. There may, of course, be various comments. It would be a mistake to think that this social anger is due to a form of political manipulation, as I have heard, or to I do not know what dictatorship of the minority. Basically, if one does not understand this, one is unable to respond to this anger, which first results from a feeling of injustice. This feeling is fuelled by inequalities in tax contributions. The successive revelations in the press only reinforce this feeling of injustice and inequality. The latest revelations relate to the procedure of excess profit ruling, which allows multinational companies to reduce their taxation in a completely legal way. Mr Minister, following these press articles, you said that tax transparency is a top priority and that you are going to take initiatives at European level. What initiatives will you support at European level to limit tax competition between Member States of the European Union? At Belgian level, are you going to amend the legislation to limit the possibilities of tax evasion by multinationals? Do you think that Belgium should continue to develop a niche policy at the tax level in order to attract multinationals or, on the contrary, do you think that it should move quickly towards European harmonisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u30	Mr President, Minister, Only in Belgium, a label that is not always popular. In the case of the 60 deals that have been made, Mr Van Overtveldt, we may agree that Parliament would rather not have received this label. In addition to the notional interest deduction, in addition to the debate on the ordinary rulings a few weeks ago, we were talking here about AB InBev and in 2010 there are now excess profit rulings. In your reply, you mentioned transparency, transparency and transparency at the time and still today. Well, seven times you used that word during the radio interview you gave this week. Transparency must be an aim, namely to adapt the system. You can, of course, turn to Europe and demand transparency about the Luxembourg deals. The question is: quid with transparency about the self-made deals? Are you prepared to proactively inform the countries affected by the deals that our ruling service has concluded? We know British American Tobacco as a very good example of these companies. While the chairman of your party says that he wants to ban smoke and we want to finance social actions to prevent people from getting addicted and recovering from smoking, we see that we are now giving a tax infusion to the companies that sell that kind of product with huge profits. So we notice a great difference between what we are asking Luxembourg and what we are doing today in relation to other countries that do not have this information, which simply means that some companies are no longer taxed. That has to stop, of course. You are calling for transparency and my question is what you will do. Will you proactively deliver the rulings to those countries? How will you ensure that the functioning of the ruling service is fully transparent in the future? A few weeks ago, CD&V asked here about a committee F. This question arises because of the committee that deals with the fight against tax fraud. Will you follow that recommendation or not? Will you give us the amounts and insights on the deals that are being dealt with? Transparency is a good thing, but this Parliament must also show transparency. What commitment will you make in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions and I will try to sum up the answers to them in five points. Firstly, with regard to the discussions I had with the Luxembourg Finance Minister, he confirmed to me on two occasions, particularly on Tuesday morning during the ECOFIN meeting, that he agreed with the principle of exchange or provision of Luxembourg rules. We will see ourselves at the beginning of January to define the modalities and, at the end of January, the exchange of the rules will begin. Secondly, how many rulings is it about? It is indeed about about sixty rulings. I would point out that a total of five thousand rulings have been passed since 2005. The transparency in this respect is very high. As I have said publicly several times, the only reserve is that in certain cases, including the excess profit rulings, the questioning by the ruling committee is so intense that the companies in question are actually obliged to put their commercial, financial and organisational strategy on the table. I do not think it is clear at all that these data are being published. That is where the professional secrecy of the tax authorities comes into question immediately. Thirdly, are we prepared to give transparency, what we are asking Luxembourg for? Yes. If we get that question tomorrow, and certainly from other EU countries, we will give the requested information in full. With regard to transparency, I would like to add that we entered into yesterday's discussion from the cabinet with the relevant FPS Finance services to see to what extent we can provide additional information and bring additional transparency, for example through additional publications in the framework of the annual report of the ruling committee. Fourthly, the European level, which is the level at which these discussions really need to take place. The Belgian Government supports the initiative of Germany, France and Italy to achieve greater transparency. This was confirmed at the ECOFIN meetings and I confirmed it again at bilateral meetings, in particular to the German Minister of Finance. Fifthly, I would like to place the question of whether we should continue with such a niche policy in a broader context. We are, as this assembly is sure, part of monetary union. The fact that a country belongs to a monetary union limits its ability to conduct an economic policy in the broad sense of the word. We have all experienced far more than we have seen from other countries than we have seen from the fact that we no longer have an autonomous interest rate policy and certainly no longer have an autonomous exchange rate policy. This limits our ability to conduct an economic policy. Together with the whole government, I am very much in favour of increased transparency. Certainly at European level, there must be as much transparency as possible; the more transparency, the better. However, I would like to call for some caution in the area of tax harmonisation. We are part of monetary union and already have a limited policy toolbox to intervene when our economy is hit by a shock. It may therefore be appropriate not to give up what some call a niche policy and thus give up an additional instrument of economic policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u32	Mr President, Minister, this subject is indeed controversial. States are stealing from each other through tax dumping practices. Their revenues are falling. The consequences are social and economic. Those practices must therefore be stopped and States must be proactive in that regard. What hypocrisy! Laws such as the one that allows the excess profit ruling are passed and then complain about their effects. What hypocrisy! We are asking neighbouring States to be transparent and we are prepared to give the latter with our lips if we are asked to do so, not proactively. What hypocrisy! The European Parliament refuses to support the Greens' plan to set up a genuine committee of inquiry into tax dumping practices. This hypocrisy must stop. On the occasion of your response, you said, Minister, that there is a great deal of transparency. That's not true! You did not answer my question about the amounts that are being asked. You also do not want to publish the names of the companies concerned, or the nature of the rulings. It's essential, though. It's not about trade secrets. It's about manufacturing secrets. These are tax arrangements. Citizens have the right to know, as do foreign tax administrations. Unlike you, Mr Minister, I believe that Europe will not get away with this without greater tax harmonisation than that which exists today and which, in the end, benefits only the most powerful.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u33	Minister, when you're asked a question, you're rarely disappointed. I have had the opportunity to see this in committee and here in plenary. Your answers are argued, substantiated and they highlight the choices you want to take, including ideologically, by introducing some breaking elements if necessary. The break between us will not be about the very principle of fiscal regulation. From this point of view, I would like to distinguish myself from Mr Georges Gilkinet. I believe that the Advance Rulings Service has the advantage of providing some form of legal certainty. Moreover, in Belgium, there are safeguards, unlike in Luxembourg, whether it is the legal framework that exists in contrast to what is practiced in Luxembourg, this form of collegiality that also constitutes a safeguard, and advertising. On the issue of transparency, there is also no break-up or difficulty between us. On the other hand, where I perceive a fundamental disagreement, it is on the European question. You plead, in short, for the maintenance of tax niches. We plead for an automatic and widest possible exchange of information between the States of the European Union, including on the settlements. We are calling for European tax harmonisation, which seems to us to be the only credible response to tax shopping by multinationals. Finally, the system of tax niches that you defend is a game with negative sums. For a partial gain in the short term, there is the risk of collective failure at European level, a failure which would only reinforce the feeling of discrimination that the population can feel, a feeling of inequality between the social categories that are captive taxpayers, on the one hand, and the multinationals that can carry out tax engineering, thereby taking away particular benefits, on the other hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u34	We congratulate you on your Mayden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u35	Mr Minister, five thousand rulings, that is a number of which I hope, just like that of Only in Belgium, Members of this House almost fell back, just like I did. That is a heavy legacy you have received from the purple government and the Di Rupo government. I know you occasionally suffer from amnesia, but in 2004 there was a purple government, Mr Van Quickenborne. I know that this makes sense, because it is significant that it is the green parties who are asking the necessary questions here today. Minister, where is your ambition to change the path? Would you like to go to ten thousand or fifteen thousand rulings? After all, you have expressed zero ambition to tackle these shameful BelgoLeaks. You are talking about greater transparency and you want to look at things in a broader context. Well, I will look at things in a broader context: the broader framework of savings that ordinary citizens are moaning today; the broader framework of all SMEs that feel the tax burden that you are not tackling, and to whom you are not today answering the question of how to make our taxation fairer and more transparent. While referring to Europe, both your political party and the cdH, CD&V and the MR are holding up an investigation committee. I would like to thank you for such transparency. I hope you have a little more ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u36	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, our country is currently undergoing a wave of social movements that result in localized or widespread strikes, such as the one that awaits us this 15th December. The right to strike is a fundamental right, but also the right to work. As one famous post-war trade unionist said: "a strike that has to resort to pickets is not a justified strike". Many citizens are overwhelmed by the fact that they are subject to restrictions on their individual freedoms from trade unions whose methods and objectives they do not share. Incidents have increased in recent days when citizens have forced illegal blockades. Yet, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, both the Criminal Code and the Police Function Act of 1992 in article 16 guarantee freedom of movement. Why, therefore, are the authorities, whether local or federal, not taking any measures to ensure freedom of movement and, indirectly, the right to work, another fundamental freedom? Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what measures and directives do you intend to take in this direction? Do we expect serious incidents to occur to respond?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u37	Mr President, Mr Carcaci, as has been repeated several times this afternoon, both the right to strike and the right to work are fundamental rights. These two values are as important as each other and clash in the context of strikes or protest actions. This is, for example, the case for pickets that block roads, corporate land or buildings. Here, it is not only the right to work that is at risk of being challenged. I think, for example, of the proper functioning of health care, as was sometimes the case. Imagine that access to a hospital is completely irresponsible! My colleague Peeters is attentive to the agreements that exist between the social partners, herenakkoord or gentleman's agreement. Local authorities who are primarily responsible for the maintenance of law and order must pay attention to the principle of proportionality, balancing the right to strike and the right to work. For the actions on Monday, in consultation with the Minister for Employment, Kris Peeters, I will make sure, hour by hour, that the principle of proportionality is respected. If necessary, I will take appropriate action with the local police and the federal police.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u38	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u39	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after last week's Farid Le Fou, who, by the way, is on the right track and is about to leave the hospital, Justice made another bad turn this week. The headlines speak for themselves: Drug dealers cheerfully walk out of the courtroom. We also saw the images and they touched us even stronger. The full shot of grace was given by the subtitles with the translation of what the people involved said: "We have them lying down!" Indeed, they had the court very well, and us there. Due to procedural errors, 46 drug dealers were cleared. It was a wrong phone number in a tap decision and a statement of reasons which, according to Cassatie, was too limited. A lot of police and investigators' work just ends up in the dumpster, because that's totally lost. Especially, and that's the worst of it, it's a new disgrace for the Justice Department, who's already having such a hard time. It was obvious that the court was horrible about that, too. In the previous legislature we approved the Landuyt Act in the Chamber and according to the naming agent of that law everything would be resolved, because such situations would no longer occur. So that is not true, as we said at the time. The coalition agreement therefore includes the need for a thorough review of criminal law and criminal procedure at last. We shall set up a committee for this purpose. We want very specific rules and procedures to be simple. The aim is, and I quote: "The new criminal proceedings must provide sufficient guarantees to prevent the limitation of clarified criminal offences or the non-penalty of procedural errors.' We might be able to point out guilty people today, but that doesn't solve anything, because it is likely that there will still be things that we will be outraged about. We can do more than be indignant or more than shrugging our shoulders, as in the past, when it was said that it was too much work to review criminal proceedings. I think we should look at ourselves and realise that we ourselves have the key to changing things for the better. That is why I have the following questions. I hope that, pending the committee of experts to draw up the new criminal procedure law, we will be able to take as much legislative action as possible with us in the near future and thus do something earlier to avoid situations such as this week's? Can we please act quickly, so that the number of such cases that are to come is kept to a minimum? The drugs seized will be forfeited. But what happens to the drug money? This could be returned to those concerned. I think we should consider whether we can take an initiative to counter this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u40	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, thank you for your question. Under the Antigoon Act, violating a formal requirement can lead to nullity. This concerns not only the nullity of the evidence unlawfully obtained, but also the fact that the court is free to have the nullity of the evidence followed by an acquittal if it considers that this evidence is intimately linked to the entire question of guilt and that the debt could not have been proved without that evidence. This is the so-called theory of the fruit of the poisonous tree. In this particular case, a telephone tap was allowed by the investigating judge. He had made two material mistakes. On that basis, a formal requirement, prescribed on penalty of nullity, was infringed, leading to the acquittal. I believe, together with you, that we should look at the issue of the nullity of criminal proceedings and their purification before we are ready for the reform of all criminal proceedings. I have already announced this in the Justice Committee as the potpourri law. At that time, we will try to intervene as wisely as possible in this matter. As far as your second question is concerned, it is true that drugs are forfeited, even in the event of an acquittal. As far as the money is concerned, if no appeal is made, there is a suspension. Both the King's Attorney and the District Attorney General can appeal. The district attorney has a term of 15 days, which is 25 days for the District Attorney General. We have to wait and see what the outcome of the debate on the chances of success of the public prosecutor is going to be.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You will certainly find a partner in us to work towards a quick solution. You call it a potpourriwet. With this law, we should put an end to potpourri on the ground. I think there are opportunities to do something about the drug money as well. We shall see what the profession offers us. I believe, however, that action must be taken there too, because that too cannot be explained.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u42	Minister, we know that in this country four thousand people are interned. They have often also committed serious crimes. Because they are suffering from mental illness, they are not punished, but rather a safety measure. In practice, this translates in different ways. Several of them, a thousand, are, as you know, staying in our prisons. A thousand more people are staying in external care areas. Worse, however, is that two thousand of them are just at home. They are dependent on outpatient care. Just like someone who recently seriously injured a toddler of one and a half years old with a screwdriver. It concerns someone who was previously interned, but who is now just at home and dependent on external care. Minister, my questions are very specific and clear. Firstly, do you think that adequate security measures have been taken in cases where a person is provisionally released? Do you think they will be sufficiently followed? More than that, have we been able to provide adequate care for those concerned? As we could read in the media, explicit questions of care have been asked in this particular case and would not have been answered. Then I come to my third question. You know that the law on the interns has been adapted and that it is up to you to bring that legislation into force. Very concrete, both in the old and in the new law there is an article 27 that allows you to provide more resources and care places for interns. Will you implement this law by royal decree, so that you have more resources and places and you interned people can provide the necessary care and protection for society?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u43	Minister, internment is the forgetful pit of justice. That well was recently opened, initially by the Supervisory Board at Merksplas prison, which pointed out that a lot of prisoners had to stay in distressing circumstances, but also very brutally because of the facts this week in Antwerp, in which a baby girl was wounded in the face by an interned person who had been released. Eleven hundred internees are staying in prisons, Mrs Van Cauter said so. Furthermore, a number of institutions, but more than half of the four thousand interns are free, with one appointment a month with the psychiatrist, follow-up by a judicial assistant and occasional conversation. I do not need to draw a picture: this is not enough. The fear that there is de facto insufficient follow-up or follow-up, both inside and outside the institutions, is a fact. There's no way around that. The facts with the baby girl are an intriguing example of that. My questions to you lie on everyone's lips. First of all, how did this happen? Will you investigate this particular case? Did something go wrong in there? Has this been sufficiently followed up? What could be better? Perhaps everything has been done as it is now prescribed, but then perhaps we can learn from it and give other instructions? Secondly, what concrete steps will you take to improve the follow-up and better treatment of the interns, both inside and outside the institutions? What will you do pending the entry into force of the new law and centres? We already know that the new centres will not have sufficient capacity to accommodate all interns. Thirdly, and finally, Minister, will you consult with the Ministers of Welfare of the Communities and with the judicial assistants to work together to draw up an action plan for better care and follow-up? After all, it is certain that such terrible facts cannot be done and that we must provide the tools to better protect society and the interns.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u44	Minister, I do not need to illustrate the poignant way in which society cares for interned people anymore. There's today's example with the toddler. A few months ago, someone asked for euthanasia because he felt that he was suffering incredibly psychologically and did not receive the appropriate treatment for that. A lot of ink has flowed over the forensic psychiatric centers of Ghent and Antwerp. Both in the media and in the corridors, we hear that the government would not have entered enough money for the forensic psychiatric centers or FPCs. The Court of Auditors also made a comment in this connection at the end of November. My questions are therefore very specific, Minister. Ghent's FPC, which should be able to accommodate 264 internees, opened a few weeks ago with five or six people. Will the FPC Ghent fill up next year? Will the 264 interns who should be able to go there have adequate care by the end of next year? In other words, did you set up the means to do so? A few weeks ago, I read in a newspaper that the director of the FPC Gent predicts that an outpatient clinic would soon be needed at the FPC. Has that been mentioned to you yet? How do you feel about that? At the moment we don't really have a look at the timing for the FPC Antwerp. Can you tell us anything more about that? Finally, let us take the best case scenario in which all the problems appear to be bullshit and apekool and in which the FPCs can be filled in Ghent and Antwerp. Even in that case, we are far from being able to offer proper care to interned people. The figures have already been mentioned. Does the government have an agreement on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u45	Mr President, I have had many questions. I therefore hope that you will be somewhat indulging with the timing so that I can answer all the questions. Mrs De Wit, I have indeed taken note of the letter from the members of the Supervisory Committee of the Merksplas prison. I remember from the letter the call for a further development of forensic psychiatry and for the implementation of the law of 5 May 2014 concerning the person of the interned. It is correct that the coalition agreement places a strong emphasis on the care of the interned person, which is, by the way, entirely in line with the law of 5 May 2014. Together with you, I regret that the 2007 law had to be substantially amended and even replaced, as well as that the 2014 law still contains a number of imperfections, which will allow us to allow the law to enter into force on 1 January 2016 only after we have repaired it. The adjustments are currently being prepared. Of course, it is difficult to make a general statement on a specific case, which is so painful that it took place in Deurne this week. We have all been overwhelmed by this painful situation. The person concerned was interned by the judge. The Commission for the Protection of Society has assessed the implementation of the measure. In 2008, that committee considered that there were sufficient guarantees for a trial release. The conditions attached to that release were, as usual, checked by the police and the judicial assistant. In doing so, Mrs Van Cauter asked a question on this subject, which was intensely involved in cooperation with the other services, for example with the care providers who accompanied the person concerned. I will have a more detailed investigation carried out, but I am told that the very regrettable facts were not the result of a lack of guidance. There have so far been no previous facts or circumstances allowing the person concerned to be re-incarcerated since 2008. This means that no system is, of course, 1 000 % final, which we need to realize. The group of interned persons is very heterogeneous. I hear talk of four thousand interned, of which two thousand are free. I know those numbers. However, I am not sure whether you want all four thousand interns to be locked up in an FPC. I didn't hear you say that. So the care is very differentiated. The cases are very differentiated and a flow to the external care circuit should be possible. This morning, I had discussions with Mr De Block, among other things, because, together with the working of the care coordinators, we have to ensure that we can respond to this differentiated question. Mrs Jiroflée, the FPC in Ghent today has 19 interned people and it is intended that this FPC will be fully filled next year. As far as the FPC in Antwerp is concerned, the specifications will be issued in February and this centre will be opened in 2016. You ask me if I have sufficient budget. I will make it clear by the beginning of February what the priority needs of justice are, in order to do all that is necessary with the resources at my disposal. This is, as far as I am concerned, an absolute priority, as well as an extension of the institution in Paifve, Wallonia. As regards resources, in addition to all the investments that will be made under these FPC debt instruments, the necessary appropriations, which have been contracted, have been requested. I hope that I have answered your concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u46	Mr President, Minister, you cannot, of course, offer us 100% security. Nor is it a question of locking all four thousand interns in a closed facility. A measure of internment, however, means that we must be able to offer the necessary safety guarantees and this is precisely where the shoe is pinching. If we look at the incident today, and it's not the first one, we know there's a problem. We must tackle this problem. Then it is important to ensure equal care and not to allow the situation in which interned people are simply left at home to their fate, even when there is an explicit question of care. I know that resources are limited and that it is a difficult budgetary exercise, but you can, as the Court of Auditors has prescribed, provide additional resources by implementing Article 27 of the current law, which is re-established in the new law, and not only the government but also the interned for its maintenance costs. One cannot assume that every interned person is not well-equipped. You have to look into that, we ask you to follow this dossier absolutely, and we thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Mrs Van Cauter has already mentioned the point of pain: whether it is in a centre or outside, care, aftercare and follow-up are needed. It is up to us to ensure that the necessary resources are provided in any way. We have an obligation to ensure the protection of the environment, and now the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is doing the same for both society and the internal market. We have a first task in this regard. You will find a partner with us to work with.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I look forward with great interest to your February note. I just want to make another call. The previous government, of which you were also a member, has taken a first step, with the creation of the FPCs. That didn't go without a hit or a hit. I know that, but it was a step in the right direction. I appeal to this government not to leave it at that, but to continue its work. We are therefore on the right track.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u49	Madam Secretary, the problem is well known: 15 years ago, the federal government decided to reduce the number of doctors. That was necessary, too. There were many doctors with too little work, resulting in overconsumption. The Flemish government acted very quickly and introduced an entrance exam. Nothing happened in Wallonia. More than that, the students who started the study there were told that it would not go so fast. At the end of the ride it would be fine, a bit under the guise: if the situation got out of hand enough, it would be resolved afterwards. As Minister of Health, Mrs Onkelinx has tried several times to abolish quotas. Responsible Minister Jean-Claude Marcort cannot, to this day, be allowed to speak of access exams, while even the Walloon universities show greater willingness. Minister, the consequences are what they are today. There are four hundred students at risk of graduating without a vision of a future. In recent months we have heard that the ball is in your camp, Madam Secretary. A general is being asked to be excused by the PS and the cdH. Last weekend you initiated a structural solution. I read some very important sentences in that introduction. You say, for example, that you want to mop up at the federal level, but that the crane must first be turned off at the Länder. In that I read that Marcort will first have to introduce an entrance exam. Then, on the basis of a new land register, there may be some kind of debt repayment of the surplus, which was created today on the French-speaking side. There may be a deduction from the quota that can be given in the future. That is a clear position, Madam Minister, in which we can agree. I just don't think anyone really understood you. I read in the French-speaking press that Marcourt thinks that the land register itself will still solve the situation itself. More than that, he initially asks you for a guarantee on a land register, a guarantee on a land register that suits him best. Madam Secretary, what guarantee have you built into your proposal to Marcourt? What guarantee do you have that Marcourt will actually set up an entrance exam in 2015? How can you guarantee debt repayment, even after this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u50	Mr President, Madam Minister, I ask you about the subject almost every week, as I did with your predecessors. It is necessary to get out of this completely absurd and surrealistic situation where students have passed their studies - medical graduates or dentistry - but ultimately cannot get their INAMI number to practise their profession; meanwhile, non-Belgian Europeans, they, on the other hand, get their INAMI number without any quota. For some time now, I repeat that a comprehensive solution is possible to ensure that those who succeed in obtaining their INAMI number are able to obtain their INAMI number. It is a matter of moving this absurd filter from the exit to the entrance, of course taking into account the reality of the terrain. It is well known that in some regions there are shortages for general practitioners and even in some specializations. Madam Minister, you have met with your colleagues and I know what this shows. I have clearly heard the positions expressed in terms of communication. On the other hand, today, students are still not officially informed about their immediate future. However, for some universities, it is for this coming Monday that they must be able to make their choice and therefore receive an official response. Minister, can you officially tell us today what is the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have indeed seen many people and, in the meantime, I have held an extensive consultation and consultation round. In committee, I gave a lot of explanations about this during the discussion. In the end, a roadmap has grown towards a solution. Last Friday, I had a meeting with my colleague Mr Marcourt and Mr Crevits, the respective Ministers for Education. I also put a proposal on the table. The various sensitivities in the dossier in the North and in the South were explicitly taken into account in their preparation. I have, of course, also been aware of the human aspects, the expectations of students and their parents, who are faced with a situation for which neither they nor I are responsible. In all these respects, I would like to propose a lasting, structural and integral solution to a situation which has existed for several years and which has become very acute, but which cannot be repeated anymore. This is the current impasse with respect to the over-number of Francophone students who will complete their studies in 2015 and who may not receive a quota certification due to their restrictive granting by the deans. This is also the inward and outward flow of medical students, which is consistently too high in relation to the quota. Since The dynamic register has not yet been fully completed, we must continue to debate the need for medical workers, possible bottleneck specializations, pennies in some professions and the need to review the current quotas. There is only one proposal left after all contacts. The main lines are therefore clear. I expect the Länder to take the first step through the immediate introduction of an effective system that absolutely guarantees from the 2015-2016 academic year that no more students will be allowed to enter the programme than there will be. In this way, the high influx of students is structurally reduced. The Länder implement such a system, but there must be a demonstrable effectiveness. Since the rules governing the allocation and withdrawal of quotas have not changed in recent years, the deans, in agreement with the Communities, will also deliver the quota attestations to PhD candidates in 2014. So that's a solution for the students. An adapted lissage scheme will be drawn up for the following years, which will make it possible to definitively eliminate the overrun of global quotas and to compensate for the excess of students who have graduated from our Walloon universities in recent years. I have no problem with Minister Marcourt's question that the administration should give absolute priority to completing the dynamic register. That mandate has already been given, so that the Planning Committee can make progress from mid-2015 onwards and set quotas for the following years, starting from 2022. The planning committee will also be asked to take into account some variables, such as the feminisation of the medical profession, regional factors, the ageing population and, indeed, Mrs Fonck, the number of foreign doctors established in Belgium. Pending the new quotas, on the basis of their robustness, the same quota will be maintained as for the years 2019 and 2020. It is therefore important that the Communities now have the key to reducing the number of admitted influxes for the years 2021 to 2028 each year and for each Community by a proportion of the total number of students promoted up to 2020. That brings about the so-called negative lissage. I will conclude, Mr President, even if the subject is important. It is very important that these elements cannot be separated from each other. That's the only workable slope. There is therefore a need for commitments from the Länder and the deans of the French-speaking faculties, and the federal level. I put my proposal on the table. Minister Marcourt started thinking last Friday. I'm waiting for his answer. I also know it's urgent. You can say that with my regards to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u52	Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for the clear answer. The file has already proved in the past that we should not be naive. I think you really need a stick behind the door. If no entrance exam was introduced in September, it should also be done using future RIZIV numbers. That's when it has to be done! The political game played in the file is a blow to the face of the French-speaking students, of the Flemish students who could not start their studies because they did not pass the entrance exam, and of all citizens, who deserve an affordable health care. It has to stop here!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u53	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. First of all, let me point out to the one who spoke just before me here that there are not too many doctors and dentists who have graduated only from the French-speaking side. Several hundred Dutch-speaking doctors and dentists will be out of the quota – we have figures up to 2020. That being said, the essential thing seems to me to be first of all those young people who, in a few months' time, will be graduating and who, on Monday, have to make a decision about their future, the choice of general or specialized medicine. Minister, in relation to that, I have heard you talk about the plan in stages. I still do not understand whether there is an agreement or not between the ministers and the various levels of power concerned. I will allow myself to tell you this, to you, and collectively to all those involved in this matter, namely all the ministers in charge: let us stop this ping-pong between the competent ministers, each at their level of power! Today we need them to take their responsibilities together so that students and tomorrow doctors and dentists are not the victims of this political ping-pong! Let us move forward, these solutions are possible - they are global, I can join you on this - but it is up to the politicians now to decide and send an official response to the students and universities.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u54	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment three thousand healthcare professionals are waiting for a visa; that visa is a definitive registration in order to get to work. Most of them graduated in June or September this year, and they have to wait an average of three to four months before they can get to work, while they are completely fine and have graduated as a healthcare professional. We should suspect that they can enter the profession very quickly and automatically. Several of them have a job offer in their pocket, they can get to work. I have files on my desk of people who could start on 1 November or 15 November, but the institutions are afraid to hire them, because one knows very well, from experience in the past, that if there was a negative decision, then the RIZIV will not invoice that performance. So they're afraid to take the risk. Madam Minister, that is incomprehensible, because the labour market is begging for care professionals. It is here for me: 523 vacancies at the VDAB, thirteen regions of the Wit-Gele Kruis have several vacancies for healthcare professionals, 106 vacancies in East Flanders, 83 in West Flanders. I can still go on and I'll get hundreds of vacancies very quickly. Madam Secretary, I know that this power will disappear from you, and from 2015 it will be transferred to the regions of the outermost regions. Are you aware of this problem and will you take action to ensure that people get their visas and get to work as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u55	Mr President, Mrs Muylle, in reply to your question, I can tell you that, also following a complaint by the umbrella organisation of rest homes at the FPS Health, a pragmatic solution has been sought and found for the long waiting periods for the granting of recognition to graduate healthcare professionals. Initially, care professionals were given access to the profession even before they were registered. As that procedure took time, access to the profession was regulated on the basis of a receipt of their file. This was done on the basis of a letter from then competent Minister Demotte. Quite a few institutions have objected, because there was indeed a long waiting period and access can normally only be given on the basis of the post-registration visa as a care professional. Recently, the FPS Public Health has decided to issue a provisional visa pending registration. The graduates will receive a provisional visa as soon as they sign up with their diploma at the FPS Public Health. Once they are in possession of this visa, it goes much faster and the rest homes can recruit these caregivers. The Public Health Office has informed me that all visas will be issued before the end of the year. The rest homes can therefore apply for funding from the RIZIV for these care professionals on the basis of this document.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u56	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. There are some hopeful elements in your answer. You say that by the end of the year, when the power is transferred, everyone gets their visa. The settings are certainly also aware of the solution you give, that of the temporary visa. Today, however, the institutions do not dare to accept people with a provisional visa, because there is no guarantee whatsoever. This is confirmed from the RIZIV. I know the F.D.D. sent those 723 letters last week. The problem, however, is that if there is no decision, the RIZIV cannot give any guarantee that those benefits can also be invoiced. That will stop the institutions from putting these people to work today, Madam Secretary. Take another look at this, make sure that the institutions are not punished for this and let us hope that within two weeks these three thousand people will be able to get to work for the much work that remains to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u57	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that this topical subject affects different sectors. Indeed, it has been discussed at the level of the Economy, at the level of the Interior and now at the level of the Self-employed and SMEs. Like each of my predecessors today, I will start my question with a basic principle: the right to strike is obviously inviolable. Unfortunately, I note that in recent times the right to move has been trampled on and, as a result, the right to access his work for those who wish to do so. Today I want to relay the discontent of the employees, the self-employed, the SMEs in this country, who have been really taken hostage in recent weeks by some strikers and who will, unfortunately, probably still be taken hostage in the coming weeks. This is a problem for our economy, because I must not remind you, Minister, that SMEs generate almost 70% of our GDP. Taking hostage was saying, and I did not choose that word in vain. During the last days of the strike, the press has relayed numerous spillovers: intimidation of traders, forced to close their trade "for their own good"; blocking of roads, whether they are large accesses or accesses to zonings. We even put stickers on the theme "Yellows live from the fight of others" on the windows of some traders deemed recalcitrant. These intimidations, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, are intolerable. Blockages of roads and access not only hinder traffic, but in some cases simply deprive people of their income. The first victims of strikes are also small businesses that work with tight flows. In such cases, strikes may endanger their survival. It's important to remind him. In this kind of business, we're far from the caricature that we're supposed to hear. Patrons and employees work side by side and not at the expense of each other. I come to my questions. Minister, can you tell us the financial impact of strikes on our SMEs? Are there already figures available? Since there is a silent majority of workers in this country who consider themselves wronged, dispossessed of part of their freedoms, what are the answers that can be given to them, knowing that the gentlemen's agreements that have passed are not respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the figures are concerned, the assessment of the impact of these strikes is, at this stage, partial. However, we do have some studies, including one conducted by UNIZO, which assessed the impact of the damage suffered as a result of rotating strikes at EUR 165 million. FEB also delivered a number of calculations as well as Professor Hendrickx of UCL or the Itinera study centre. The latter two consider that a day of general strike results in a loss of 80 to 100 million euros. These are figures that include not only the immediate impact, but also a whole series of situations and aspects that we encounter: prohibition of access to sites, delayed deliveries, discouraged customers, etc. As Minister for the Middle Classes, Independents and SMEs, I have to tell you that a large number of testimonies concerning completely unacceptable behaviour have been given to me and to the organisations representing the middle classes, the self-employed and the enterprises. In addition to the pickets that have already been mentioned in the extremely precise legal context, there have been intimidations, a number of people in shops have been forcibly evicted, interlocutors have been subjected to barely veiled threats. The situation is so worrying for the companies in both the North and the South of the country that the latter have addressed, even today, in the united front of the whole employer bank (FEB, Walloon Union of Enterprises, Besi, Boerenbond, UCM, etc.). a letter to all the mayors of the country in which they request to ensure, in the next few days, that the law is respected not only with regard to pickets but also the provisions of the Penal Code, including that relating to obstacles to movement (Article 406) and other provisions. It is known that jurisprudence in this regard has evolved since 2010, since the InBev case. It is clear that we are beyond the gentleman's agreement that was mentioned a few minutes ago in this rostrum. The situation, as it stands today, has become intolerable and will generate a number of additional losses for the public authorities, which will have to be borne and taken over by additional decisions. We therefore hope that social dialogue can be carried out. The right to strike is legally exercised, but we also want to restore the balance between the right to work and the right to trade.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u59	Minister, thank you. As we heard, these actions are hard to live for many of us. I would also like to remind you that in 2012... [[Protests]] [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u60	Mr President, is my speaking time counted when I am interrupted?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u61	Let Mrs Wilmès speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u62	Mr President, I note that when some do not agree, they show the extent of their respect for ideas that are not theirs! In 2012, the European Committee of Social Rights recalled that strikers must take into account the rights and freedoms of others. It's a matter of mutual respect. Going to work on a strike is also, for some, an expression of a point of view! We note that, so far, this will is made impossible and we regret it. I confirm that the MR Group will shortly be tabling a bill confirming further the right of access to its workplace.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u63	We congratulate you on your Mayden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u64	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few weeks we have had the opportunity to debate at length in committee: firstly, with regard to your guidance note, secondly with regard to your general policy note and finally with regard to your budget. Of all these hours spent listening to you, unfortunately our group was only able to draw one conclusion: your lack of strategic vision. The N-VA is now the head of a Regalian department that no longer has the means to achieve the ambitions of the government agreement. I am not the only one to say that; the Court of Auditors, an independent body, also pointed out the lack of a budget for the extension, although already acquired, of our mission in Iraq to do what we don't know at the moment, and this, overall, while your department will be unable as early as 2015 to simply buy ammunition, for example. I guess that's "war on credit." However, according to the press, you seem determined to respond positively to the additional request from the international coalition to our country to take part in training and advisory activities. It is therefore clearly a mission requiring Belgian military personnel on Iraqi soil. If their number is still unknown, your Foreign Affairs colleague was already talking about sending dozens of trainers. By this deliberate act, you will decide to get out of the scope of the resolution adopted by the House in September, and therefore out of my group's position. All this, without a budget, without a comprehensive approach, without an exit strategy and, above all, without a short-term vision. Minister, can you tell us more about the exact future framework for Belgian participation in the international coalition in Iraq? What exactly is the official application received by our country? Do you intend to change the nature and geographical scope of the initial Belgian participation? In terms of duration, have you planned an end date and an exit strategy in a 3D approach you like to talk about? Unlike last week in the budget debates, do you know how the state will finance this new operation? Will you choose between F-16 participation and training and advisory missions? Under current difficult budgetary conditions, can you assure us that the security of our military will be effective on the spot? Finally, you are constantly talking about "value added" about our military operations. In your opinion, what would be the added value of this new mission to our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u65	Mr President, Minister, I regret to say once again that you are not fulfilling your commitments. At the beginning of this month, when discussing your policy paper, you said that there would be an evaluation on 15 December and that we would then hear what the government decided to do in Iraq. A few days ago, however, we had to learn through the newspaper that the Belgian government will send ground troops, trainers and advisers to Iraq. I would like to hear from you on the basis of what arguments you have chosen. Our position is clear: three times no. A first time no, because it is the responsibility of those responsible for the shit in that region to clean it up. Those are the ones who invaded Iraq in 2003 and thought they had to arm themselves for a regime change, opposition, ISIS and satellite groups. The second reason why we say no is that you are locking up our country in a conflict for years. It will not take long, I refer to the discussion between Iraq and the United States of America, or those trainers will fight with Iraqi troops on the ground. Thirdly, I have already asked for a list of countries which are doing what. We still haven't gotten that list. If my searches in the foreign press are correct, then I see that three European Union countries will bomb both in Iraq and send trainers and advisers there. Of those three countries, our country is one. Mr. Secretary, I can't follow you anymore. Do we have too much money or too much money for defence? Are we a superpower that will operate in Iraq together with France and the Netherlands? Do we respond to every fingernip, to every demand from abroad? Please, Minister, think twice before you put our country on that dangerous slope.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u66	Mr Crusnière, I note once again that you are worried about my budget. I'm happy because that's something your party hasn't done in the last 25 years. At the Paris Conference on 15 September, some 30 countries committed themselves to Iraq's explicit request! The demand was to support the country by all appropriate means, including military ones, in order to be able to cope with the potential destabilization of the region caused by the rise in power of the ISIS movement. I remember being represented there by people who made promises but who have now forgotten them. Mr van der Maelen, last week in committee I recommended a number of fellow Members to read the policy documents once in a while instead of blindly believing what is in the newspapers. The plan for next year's operations will be submitted to the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the Constitution. On that basis, we will decide. I would like to make it clear once again that the 3D approach, Development, Diplomacy and Defence, is important to me. As Minister of Defence, I can only contribute to this in one way, in particular by including my share of it. In the past, moreover, I have always made it very clear that there are three important conditions for me to participate in an international operation with our military. Firstly, can we effectively provide added value? Today, I note that our contribution with the F-1673s is greatly appreciated internationally. As a result, effective results are being achieved in the field today. I refer, moreover, to our meeting on 19 November with the Foreign Minister, where an initial evaluation of our fight against Daech was made. I thought you were there, or did you forget? You blame me for not keeping my appointments. Well, I organised the evaluation almost a month before 15 December. I would therefore like to refer to that meeting and also to the answers I gave during that meeting. The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs also provided certain answers at that meeting. So the first question is whether or not there is added value. The second question is whether there is not only an intro but also an exit strategy. Well, there is. Mr Crusnière, I have repeated a number of times that the international coalition has a plan in four stages, the first phase of which is about to be completed. Daech has been stopped and has to withdraw into a number of cities. Thirdly, the risk analysis must be correct. In this context, I can tell you that my first concrete proposal to the Council of Ministers for Participation in Iraq will be to send out a few people to see how, in what way and where we can make a contribution on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u67	Minister, thank you. As usual, you always pull out the same little language on our vision of the army's budget. I would remind you, however, that the last major investments allocated to the army were initiated by a socialist francophone minister, Mr Flahaut. Don't forget it. For the rest, again, few assertions and few clarifications as to the contours of the mission that you intend to give shortly to Belgian participation in this coalition. I reiterate the request: as soon as the government has taken a decision, I hope that the External Relations and Defence Committees will be convened quickly so that they can be debated, so that they can see the contours, the perimeter and, above all, how this additional mission will be financed. Contrary to what might have been implied by some in past debates, the resolution that my group supported was certainly not an indefinite blank-seing. If the government decides to send troops to the ground, you make a clear choice to get out of the perimeter of this resolution. This will be done without the support of the PS group.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u68	So, Minister, you confirm that Belgium will send ground troops, trainers, to Iraq. You said you'd send people out to check it out. That's what you said. You will make that proposal. I suggest that you reread the report of the sitting on your policy statement, and you will find that you were explicitly committed at that time not to make any decisions for the review of 15 December. Once again, this is what we are going to find out. Mr. Secretary, you're just a minister. As a Member of Parliament with 25 years of experience, I would like to give you the following advice. Please, stop testing our trust. You've done more slaloms than I've ever seen other ministers do. For example, you announced in your policy statement that you would like to extend the F-16s' deployment despite the fact that you had committed yourself to evaluating it on 1 December. You've withdrawn that commitment. Now you do it again. You said in our committee that you would not decide anything before 15 December, but you would wait for the evaluation. However, we are told through the newspaper that Minister Reynders has offered, which is clear that Belgium will also provide ground troops. Not long ago you said that we in Lebanon can do nothing but paint border posts. Well, I heard the report on the radio this morning. The mayor of that region says that Belgium still has very useful mine clearance work to do there. Mr. Secretary, you must be careful what you say in the Chamber. Please don't think of us as fools, we remember what you say. What you say is important, but stick to it in the future as well, otherwise you will be facing major problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u69	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, at the announcement of your intentions to terminate the Museum Fin-de-Siècle, I did not hear Didier Reynders say that you were speaking only on your behalf, which we had heard on another occasion. So I assume you're speaking on behalf of the government. Let me say that it is quite surprising to see that the first initiative on the part of a Secretary of State, who has the chance to be Minister of Federal Cultural Institutions, is to push or challenge a great success. If you have been given a visit to the Musée Fin-de-Siècle, you will have noticed that it was conceived as the Louvre Museum or the Musée d'Orsay in Paris, where all the artistic expression of an era is brought together in one place. It is true that the end of the 19th century is a major era in the political or cultural life of this country. This was the time when Belgium was almost the world's second largest industrial power and had the chance to have artists of exceptional fame. It was an excellent initiative of Mr. Draguet, in his time, to propose to the government, to Mr. Magnette at the time, to gather the works of that period in one place. This corresponded to a modern conception of the development of museum activity. It seems that you wish to upset the presentation of the works and collections of the Museum of Fine Arts. Of course, modern art collections must find a setting but there are proposals. There are proposals with the Vanderborght building in the city centre, there is the proposal of the Brussels Region for contemporary art collections. All major cities announce the development of new museum projects! It is the success of cultural projects in a city that restores its identity and strength. The fact of questioning these achievements seems to me to be highly detrimental to the influence of Brussels! Madam Secretary of State, has your idea of putting the collections of the Musée Fin-de-Siècle back into the cellars been coordinated with the governing bodies of museums? Has the budget evaluation been made? What is your vision for the future of the collections? How will you also respect the dates that have been made and that have enabled collectors to deposit remarkable works? They are announcing today – read Mr Gillion's statements carefully – that if the tripartite conventions (State-collectors-Region) are not respected, they will withdraw the works in deposit and this could have a cascade effect, until even the Magritte Museum is called into question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u70	Mr President, Mr Maingain, thank you for this question. I want to be clear. In the Government Agreement of 9 October, it is clearly stated, under 5.3.2 Federal Scientific Institutions, that "a master plan will be developed for the infrastructure of federal scientific institutions, so that the buildings of the institutions concerned are systematically renovated and subsequently adapted to modern standards and environmental requirements. The Régie des Bâtiments is associated with it. Renovation and maintenance of existing value infrastructure takes precedence over new initiatives." In my policy statement of 12 November, on science policy, I confirmed this commitment by stating that "the development of a master plan for the renovation and maintenance of buildings is a priority". In this context, the problem of the collection of modern and contemporary art arises. As you know, it has not been shown to the public since 2011. Various leads were raised as to where this collection could be re-exposed. I am in favour of maintaining collections on a single site, so as to avoid their dispersion. Since the government agreement states that "renovation and maintenance of existing value infrastructures take precedence over new initiatives", I examine how the modern art collection can again be integrated into the Royal Museums of Fine Arts in Belgium. This is also reflected in my policy note on science policy. I quote the spokesman for the Royal Museums: "a wing of the museum site has been empty since 2005." This is an area of a few thousand m2. We can therefore conclude that the Royal Museums of the Fine Arts of Belgium have sufficient space to accommodate both the collection of Modern Art and the Fin-de-Siècle collection. I am still awaiting a report from the Régie des Bâtiments on this matter. In addition, I will soon have an interview with the director of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts to discuss the modalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u71	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I note that you have made announcement effects without consultation with management, a curious way to manage for a responsible minister. You cited your government agreement. I read it carefully. Thus, in point 5.3.9, the presentation of the artistic heritage is discussed: "In order to enhance the presentation of the artistic heritage for a wide audience, the possibility of exchange of art collections between the Federal State and the federated entities will be examined. Where appropriate, necessary cooperation protocols will be concluded." But that's what the Brussels Region is proposing. It offers you the capacity to welcome you in buildings that can enhance the collections presented. Before announcing your willingness to push everything, to question everything, at least you could conduct this dialogue, carry out an assessment of the budgetary interests of the operation. But, in reality, you do not want to collaborate with Brussels. Have the frankness to say it!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u72	Madam Secretary of State, you have also read in the press that, according to international research, female workers are not only dealing with glass ceilings, but also with sticky floors. That means they stick to a post and make less promotion than men. The universities of Ghent and Leuven took the test and examined whether this was not due to unequal treatment by employers. They sent over a thousand fictitious application letters to real job vacancies. This showed that for jobs that included a promotion, the fictitious male candidates in the study were 23 % more likely to have a positive response and 50 % more likely to be invited to a job interview. There are two important explanations for this. The scientists base themselves on two economic theories relating to discrimination; one is more unacceptable and unpleasant than the other. The first theory states that some employers find it unpleasant to work with women in higher positions. The second, more obvious, is that men obviously still do not get pregnant and, of course, do not take maternity leave and also take much less care leave; only 25% of men do. The scientists make recommendations to the government. They say that action must be taken very clearly against discrimination. She must be actively tracked down and charged. I have two questions here. You want to evaluate the legislation on discrimination. That's been the plan since 2012, but it still hasn't happened. The active approach to anti-discrimination legislation is absolutely necessary. We therefore call for practical tests. In 2007, these tests were removed. The large-scale study clearly shows that it is absolutely necessary for us to use other means of combating discrimination. The government agreement provides for a policy plan on the combination of care, family and work. We must work actively to undo stereotyped imagery and also to achieve an equal recording of leave. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u73	Thank you, Mrs Van Hoof, for your question. The results of the study are hallucinating. The overall figures appear to mask the problem somewhat, but the analysis and the division of results give us a view of the root of the problem and that is that women are discriminated against in higher positions. How am I gonna do that? We have clear anti-discrimination legislation. In my view, the content is not a problem, but it is the practical implementation of it. As you say, there is a need for an active approach. However, I would like to remind you that the inspectors who monitor compliance with the provisions of the gender law have the power to carry out surveys on employers. If they establish criminal offences, they can deliver their pv to the labour auditorates. In addition, they can now act more actively. In August 2014, their powers were strengthened. The co-operation protocol between the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and the Social Inspectorate, which was only concluded in July 2014 with a view to a coordinated approach, is also an instrument that can provide a more active approach. I will ensure that these points provide an active approach and the detection of discrimination. I would also like to focus on information and awareness campaigns. Surveys should be used to identify where the problems arise. Is it about certain regions or sectors? In addition, corrective action is needed. One must reward those who do well. I am thinking of a quality label. For all these concrete measures, I also need your help and that of the Minister for Employment. I therefore ask you to raise the issue with him. I also need the Minister of Work for the action plan. I believe that we should concentrate on seven areas: the pay gap, the combination of work-family, vertical segregation, access to training, pregnancy and maternity, and the possibility of equal inclusion of leave schemes. I have already said that discrimination against women is an important issue for me. I believe that we must also make ourselves sufficiently aware of the fact that the law, which exists, is also applied in practice. I also think it is important to make it clear to men that we need their support in order to achieve the objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u74	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. This anti-discrimination legislation is indeed important. The resources available today to combat discrimination are not sufficient. I think we need much more concrete resources. I think that we need to re-examine the practical test, which was abolished in 2007. I see you nodding in the affirmative. So we're glad you're thinking of entering that test into the new anti-discrimination legislation. As far as the equal distribution of leave schemes is concerned, we cannot say that motherhood has a cost in the labour market, just as fatherhood does not. In the Scandinavian countries, however, it is possible to achieve equal integration of leave systems into the labour market and women do not disappear from the labour market if they have two or three children.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u75	Mr Secretary of State, last week you had the doubtful pleasure of being confronted with an action by Movement X, the club of Abou Jahjah, in front of your cabinet. Mr Jahjah has called you a fascist. He also said that Francken on Asylum and Migration was the same as Dutroux on Child Focus. You responded in your own style with the announcement: At noon Hezbollah warrior Abou Jahjah comes to my cabinet to argue. He is an experienced expert in the lax PS migration policy: entered with a lying asylum story, then married to a gullible Flemish, he received residence papers through the lax family reunification law and was immediately divorced. That's a bold statement, and it's okay, but you're Secretary of State and Secretary of State in the meantime. You must, of course, realise that you now have the opportunity to join the executive to speak. If you are aware of the fact that this is a Hezbollah fighter, I would like to point out that on 22 July 2013, the European Council of Ministers decided to put Hezbollah on the list of terrorist organisations. So, according to you as Secretary of State, we are dealing here, and I can join you in that, with a Hezbollah terrorist. Those are your words, quite rightly. You're also saying that he's come in with a lying asylum story. So he's an asylum cheater. So you are also establishing a criminal offence there. You also say that he obtained nationality through a marriage of convenience. That too is correct. However, it is not enough to establish that alone, Mr Secretary of State. My question to you is therefore quite simple. What are you going to do to act against this Hezbollah warrior, this man who is part of a terrorist organization, who has a sham marriage and is an asylum cheater? Will you get the Minister of Justice to act through the right of positive entry? If it isn't, this is all talk for the often. We now want action instead of words. That's why you're Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u76	Mr President, Mr Dewinter, first of all, everyone has the right to speak. There are few cabinets that are argued for as much as mine; I do have a few demonstrations every week, and there will be a few next week. So I have absolutely no problem with that. Secondly, you know the foreign law. Article 1 of the Foreigner's Law defines a foreigner: "any person who does not prove that he has Belgian nationality'. I am competent for the non-Belgen and not for the Belgians. You may regret that, but that is a fact. National law is a matter for the Justice Department. I'm not competent. I am responsible for asylum fraud, for marriages of convenience and for false partnerships. This government, and I will come up with a proposal, will intensify the fight against asylum fraud, false marriages and false partnerships. We shall do so, among other things, by taking the period of control from three to five years for marriages of convenience. We have already done so by introducing the list of safe countries on asylum; this has been done by a Swedish coalition avant la lettre in the period of current cases. This week, I sent a letter to Mr Van den Bulck asking for an opinion from the Commissioner-General to possibly extend that list of safe countries. We will also do so by continuing to combat multiple applications, which aim to maintain dilatoir use. We shall do so, as stated in the coalition agreement. I also said this in Parliament when discussing my policy statement and policy paper, where I did not see you. We will certainly work on the content, and we will ensure that asylum fraud, sham marriages and false partnerships are combated as much as possible. That's definitely my plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u77	Mr Secretary of State, I note that you have a number of stricter rules and that you will put them into practice in the coming months and years. Of course, this does not affect the symbol file that has become Abou Jahjah's file, or has been for many years. He may, as you rightly say, as a member of a terrorist organisation, as an asylum fraudster, as someone who has staged a sham marriage to acquire nationality, agitate, provoke and implement a foreign agenda in our country. Nothing is being done about that, except for a few words. I would have expected you to be a little more decisive, a little more muscular, rather than just hollow words. I hope you will take my suggestion to heart that, by means of the right of insertion, the Minister of Justice should finally be allowed to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u78	I have received amendments from the government to the draft programme law, No. 672/1. I have received government amendments on the Program Bill, No. 672/1. Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue our work, I have to inform you that I have been asked to deal with two additional amendments to the programme law in the Infrastructure Committee. The proposal is to convene the Infrastructure Committee immediately after our plenary session. I have discussed this with the chairman of the Infrastructure Committee. I will ask the services to inform Members by SMS once we know where the committee meets. I would like to thank Commission President Lalieux. I propose that the amendments be sent back to the Committee on Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises. I propose that you refer these amendments to the Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u79	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Carina Van Cauter, Sonja Becq, Philippe Goffin, Philippe Pivin, Egbert Lachaert
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u80	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u81	Mr President, I shall start by making the report which is not very long and, if I may, I will continue with the statement on behalf of my group, which will not be much longer. The bill considered by the Justice Committee at these meetings on 12 and 18 November, and then on 2 December, because it was the subject of a second reading, puts the law of 5 May 2014 establishing the parent's parentage in accordance with the law of 8 May 2014 amending the Civil Code with a view to introducing equality of men and women in the way of transmitting the name to the child and to the adopted person. Some technical adjustments have been made. The transitional regime of the Act of 8 May 2014 is completed. A solution is provided to Belgians who are domiciled abroad and who could not make a declaration in accordance with Article 12 of the Law of 8 May 2014. Career consular posts are now entitled to receive this declaration. Finally, the parentage of co-mothers is recognized. The text was voted unanimously. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I would like first to welcome the substance and then the form. On the substance, we first welcomed the speed with which the majority responded to an inquiry by my colleague Stefaan Van Hecke on the problem of declarations in our consular posts. It was important to make this right effective for all. In the same vein, we also applaud the advancement of the right of parentage of co-mothers. The vote on this text, however, does not end the debate since, to our satisfaction, an application for annulment is pending before the Constitutional Court on, inter alia, the provision which provides that in the event of disagreement or in the absence of a choice, the child bears the father's name. My colleague, Muriel Gerkens, was moved at the time by this rostrum, denouncing the unequal treatment, even though the objective was precisely to restore equal treatment. We will therefore remain attentive to what the Constitutional Court will say. In the meantime, we will support the amendments tabled by Mrs Lalieux in particular. On the form of the text, at the request of my group, a second reading has been given, which has led to a significant improvement in the legal quality of the text. In fact, all Commissioners appreciated and acknowledged the validity of this provision. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to use this new opportunity to improve the quality of our legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u82	Mrs Khattabi has already referred to it, amendments have been tabled. As speakers I note Mr Maingain, Mrs Lalieux, Mrs Becq, Mr Brotcorne, Mrs Jiroflée and Mr Van Hees. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Jiroflée has just given her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u83	Mr President, I will speak from my bench.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u84	Mrs. Lalieux, there's a problem with her. I invite you to come and speak from the top of the rostrum.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I wanted to say that I agree with Mrs Khattabi's remarks. Indeed, it was important to change the law directly on the transmission of the double surname so that the co-parents could also have immediate access to the law, which had not been possible under the previous legislature since the law had not yet been passed in the Senate. This very rapid rectification is therefore welcome, and that is so much better! At the same time, the PS Group resubmits two amendments, an amendment which had been voted on in the Committee on Justice and which had been tabled by the MR in the person of Philippe Goffin, the current chairman of the Committee on Justice, to say that by default, that is, if the parents do not want to decide on the name of the father or mother or on the double name, it would be the double name that would prevail. This seemed important to avoid a father's veto. Unfortunately, we have not reached an agreement and to prevent this bill from being passed, when it has been expected for 14 years, we have amended the law, as have honourable senators. But the opportunity presents itself to find a logic to already respond to the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men who submitted a recourse to the Constitutional Court. So, to follow the advice of the Council of State, dear parliamentarians, let us amend this law and vote together on this amendment, as well as on the second one to allow direct access to the co-parents. We will show that it is possible to combine the opposition and the majority on ethical decisions that affect the family. It is to this Parliament as a whole that I appeal to vote for these simple amendments, which under the former legislature received a majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to intervene briefly to clarify one thing. In fact, we did not vote in favour of this law in the previous legislature. We then put forward, among other things, the argument that what was the intention of the law, namely to eliminate discrimination, was not achieved. We said that we did not want to hold the debate on the substance, but that we wanted to wait for the ruling of the Constitutional Court, where this matter had been brought before us. However, that does not prevent us from agreeing with the proposal before us today for a vote on which we have cooperated. After all, it contains a number of repairs to the name legislation and at the same time regulates the new law on the automatic recognition of co-mothers, which includes elements of naming. This bill makes it possible, among other things, for Belgians living abroad to make use of this scheme in a simple way. Parents who come to be alone can also benefit from the transitional provisions of this law, and co-mothers can now use the double naming legislation in the same way. At the same time, a number of technical adjustments are foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a legal reading and a political reading in relation to this bill. The legal reading that can be made of it is that it improves a text that was voted in haste at the end of last parliamentary term. At the time, we had the opportunity to say that this haste was going to cause problems. I would also point out that, at the time, some of my colleagues who are sitting in the House today, Mr Delperée and Mrs Matz, had tabled amendments which are partly reflected in the text proposed to us this evening to adapt the legislation, proof that the text had been misconceived and misconceived. If the effort that is being made is interesting, you will understand that at the political level, we maintain our consistency with this text and that, having not adopted it last April, we will not do so further in today's vote, and we will stand by our abstention. This allows me to come to the amendment tabled by the PS, with which I have little difficulty in my personal capacity. Again, I think that we are going to sin in haste on the pretext of perhaps advancing a text in a less discriminatory sense. Indeed, because we have said in our legislation that, in the absence of a choice, the father's name is the right one, there is a risk of a body, like the Constitutional Court, telling us that we have made these choices that are not justified, which are, on the contrary, discriminatory. I do not think that we are in a position tonight to resolve the problem, because we need serious discussion in committee and calmness to address the issue. Mrs Lalieux, you are telling us that the text you are tabling – I have not had the opportunity to verify it – is exactly the same as the text you tabled in committee in the previous discussion. I'm not convinced. I think that the text that you are proposing brings with it new difficulties which justify the fact that, if we receive your amendment, we are discussing it at least in committee, which will also allow us to discuss Mr Maingain's amendment. This text, Mrs. Lalieux, if you read it well,...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u88	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u89	Yeah, but he wasn't received and we're trying to get him through today. On the occasion of a ruling by the Constitutional Court or before, if that is the Commission's will, we can discuss it. But, today, we certainly cannot approach your text as it stands, since you say: "if there is no choice of parents, that there is no agreement between them, it is of course the name of the father that is required." That is our current text. And you propose that in case of disagreement or in case of lack of choice, the child bears – and this is in my opinion the problem – one of his father's names followed by one of his mother's names. You're kind of anticipating the second generation where someone who already has a double name becomes a parent and has to choose the double name for their child. There you reintroduce a choice. You say that the parents of this child will have to make the choice between the father's first or second name, the mother's first or second name, but if they do not reach agreement again, because this hypothesis can be considered, then we find ourselves with a situation that is not resolved. I think we should give ourselves time to discuss these things seriously in committee. If these amendments are interesting, they justify their being dealt with in a different way than at the end of this plenary session, which is why on these amendments, Mrs Lalieux, too, our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u90	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have co-signed this amendment with pleasure and enthusiasm, and I very much regretted that we cannot complete the process. Mr Minister, you know very well that the purpose of the bill now under consideration is simply to make this law applicable so that people are not ultimately penalized by a text which is not entirely well written and which contains some shortcomings, moreover, in a very precise way by the rapporteur. My group's position is very simple. There may be differences. You have to be able to say it. This deserves debate, as Mr Brotcorne said. On the basis of the ruling of the Constitutional Court that is expected, as chairman of the Committee on Justice, I do indeed want a debate to be held. But wait a minute. As I did in committee, I therefore invite you to vote on the text of the proposal so that people are not waiting for a provision and are not penalized by a text that – admit it – is not quite good.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my fellow Members who supported the proposal in committee. It's a law that no one commits to anything. The choice for your child's name has become possible. What we are doing today is also opening up this freedom of choice to the co-mothers. The legislation will enter into force on 1 January 2015. This also gives the co-mothers the possibility to opt for a double name or the name of the co-mother. That is why the legislation is being amended today. I would like to thank my fellow Members who have helped to support the initiative. I hope that they will vote in the same way. That's the tone of the bill. It's nothing more than what I just said here. Also in the consular posts, which were not mentioned in the previously adopted bill, one will now be able to use the possibility as a Belgian to choose the name of the mommy, the double name or the name of the daddy. That is also included in the bill. Finally, I would like to call on all those who have voted yes in the past to name legislation. One must know what one is committed to. I hope that those Members who voted yes at that time will remain a yes and that they will not change their views at any time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u92	Mr President, the debate that led to the adoption of the Act of 8 May 2014 had been one of the most passionate, lively and enthusiastic debates in Parliament. At the time, I had finished my speech by saying that it was a sloppy piece of legislation. The proof, we'll take it back! And it is likely to be taken up again in a few months' time if the Constitutional Court questions the fact that this law creates false equality. I had demonstrated it at the time. In the twenty-first century, let us be well aware of the fact that writing in a law that the power of the last word belongs to the man in a couple to determine the name of the child if there is no agreement between the parents, this is frankly not a great step forward on the principle of gender equality. It's the opposite, it's really the negation of the expected effect. I share the objective of saying that the principle of the law of 8 May 2014 is extended to couples who are not heterosexual. I have no problem with co-parentality, it is a question of refusal of discrimination. But we do not resolve the substantive issue and you will be forced to settle it because the Constitutional Court will, in my opinion, bring you there. I would point out that the Council of Europe and our Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, in an opinion of 13 June 2012, recalled an essential principle: if we want perfect equality, only a rule requiring the transmission of the dual name is free from possible sexist stereotypes or pressure from one member of the couple on the other and reflects the principle of duality and equality between parents that characterizes parental authority and/or the biological link. I am a supporter of the Spanish system in which, by the very effect of the law, the child has the dual name. It is equality, it is recognition, in the twenty-first century, of the fact that a child has two parents! We must not allow everyone to choose according to their moods or their power relations within the couple. That is why, together with Mrs Caprasse, I am again tabling an amendment that may reach consensus because it is the equality that everyone has to respect, which re-establishes what the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men has recommended to us. This may at least have the merit of bringing an appeal to the Constitutional Court, given the disappearance of any interest in action, of saving time in legislative and judicial work and, above all, of giving parents the urge to behave in a strict relationship of equality with children. No doubt also, we will avoid having to see again the failure of the law of 8 May 2014. Indeed, recent statistics show that the choice of a name is not the matter of a choice of parents; it is simply the legal order that must prevail. However, this legal order must be organised by the law and not by the false freedom that the law of 8 May 2014 intended to establish.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, for the PTB, the bill before us today is in the right direction. It complements a law of May 2014 which, itself, went more or less in the right direction, as it reduced the inequality existing between men and women, between parents. However, we cannot help expressing reservations because this proposal retains what remained of the inequalities in the law of last year, and in particular the father's right of veto, reproduced in this new proposal. The PTB therefore expresses its approval, but with reservations and the current appeal to the Constitutional Court expresses our mixed opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u94	I didn't see you, Mrs. Jiroflée. I'll make it up to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u95	Mr President, that is nice. In any case, there is no need to be afraid. I will be very brief. Our group believes that this law is a very important step in the right direction during the previous legislative term. The repairs we've added to them now make them even better. For us, there are still two major discriminations in the law. Firstly, the fact that, in the event of disagreement, it is ultimately the father who has a right of veto. To remedy this, Mrs Lalieux has already explained a number of things. A second major discrimination, which we believe remains, is the fact that two daddies remain completely out of the scope and are absolutely not mentioned. A gay couple with adopted children actually stays out of this. In order to do something about this, it is very important for us that we first regulate the legislation on surrogacy in a very good way. Our group has tabled two proposals for this. We are very positive about this bill, but in this light I would also like to call on all of us together, across party boundaries, to look at that law on surrogacy. Then the world will look even more beautiful.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u96	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u97	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (538/9) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (538/9) The title was amended by the Committee in its draft law amending the Civil Code, the Private International Code, the Consular Code, the Law of 5 May 2014 establishing the co-mother's pedigree and the Law of 8 May 2014 amending the Civil Code with a view to introducing equality between men and women in the manner of handing over names to the child and to the adopted one." The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law amending the Civil Code, the Code of Private International Law, the Consular Code, the Act of 5 May 2014 establishing the filiation of the co-parent and the Act of 8 May 2014 amending the Civil Code with a view to introducing equality of men and women in the mode of transmission of the name to the child and adopted. The bill has 19 articles. The bill has 19 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u98	Art. 16 • 26 - Olivier Maingain cs (538/10) • 24 - Laurette Onkelinx cs (538/10) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u99	Held: the vote on the amendments and Articles 2 and 16. Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 3 to 15, 17 to 19.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u100	******
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u101	Since the calls for candidates for the mandates of experts (2 N + 2 F) at the Audit Committee on the electoral expenditure and accounting of the political parties, published in the Belgian Official Journal of 18 August 2014 and 17 October 2014, resulted in two applications from Dutch-speaking expert but only one application from French-speaking expert, the Chamber decided on 20 November 2014 to proceed with a new call to candidates for the mandates of French-speaking expert. The applications were to be submitted by 8 December 2014. The appeals to the candidates for the terms of office of experts (2 F + 2 N) to the Commission de contrôle des expenses électorale et de la comptement des parties politiques, published in the Moniteur belge on 18 August 2014 and 17 October 2014, having given rise to only two Dutch-speaking candidatures and one French-speaking candidature, the Chamber decided, on 20 November 2014, to make a new appeal to the candidates for the terms of office of French-speaking experts. Applications were to be submitted no later than 8 December 2014. Following the calls for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal, the following applications were submitted. Following calls for candidates to the Belgian Monitor, the following applications were submitted: Candidates for the mandates of Dutch-speaking expert: - Mr Herman Matthijs, Professor at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel and Ghent University; - Mr Emmanuel Vandenbossche, Chairman of the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring. Candidatures for Dutch-speaking expert terms: - Mr. Herman Matthijs, regular professor at the "Vrije Universiteit Brussel" and at the University of Ghent; - Mr Emmanuel Vandenbossche, Chairman of the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control. Candidates for the mandates of French-speaking expert: - Mr Robert Buekenhout, Chief of Staff at the Training Centre Aid - Logistics Department (Doornik); - Mr Raymond Molle, former Chief Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - mevrouw Delphine Piccininno, jurist bij of "Public Service of Wallonia - Operational Directorate-General for Local Authorities, Social Action and Health"; - Mr Philippe Quertainmont, State Council at the Council of State, Professor at the Université libre de Bruxelles. Candidates for the terms of office of French-speaking expert: - Mr. Robert Buekenhout, Chief of Staff, Logistics Department, Centre de compétence de la formation soutien (Tournai); - Mr Raymond Molle, former first auditor to the Court of Auditors; - Ms. Delphine Piccininno, Legal Officer of the Wallonia Public Service - Operational Directorate of Local Authorities, Social Action and Health; - Mr Philippe Quertainmont, State Councillor at the Conseil d'État, ordinary professor at the Université libre de Bruxelles. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 December 2014, candidates' CVs will be sent to political groups and the appointment of experts will take place at the plenary session on Thursday 18 December 2014. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 December 2014, the curriculum vitae of the candidates will be transmitted to the political groups and the appointment of the experts will take place during the plenary meeting on Thursday 18 December 2014. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u102	Following the three calls for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal, the following applications were submitted: Following the three calls for candidates for the Belgian Monitor, the following applications were submitted: Candidates for the President's term of office: - Ms Christine Julien (F), Judge at the Court of First Instance in Namur; - Mr Serge Lipszyc (F), first substitute for the Labour Auditorate in Liège. Candidatures for the term of President: - Ms. Christine Julien (F), a judge of the Namur Court of First Instance; - Mr Serge Lipszyc (F), first substitute for the Labour Auditorate of Liège. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 December 2014, I propose that Mr Serge Lipszyc's candidacy be declared inadmissible. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 December 2014, I propose that you declare the candidature of Mr Serge Lipszyc inadmissible. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Candidate for the mandate of Member of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy: Mr Frank Schuermans (N), Member of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy. Candidate for the term of office of Member of the Commission on the Protection of Privacy: Mr Frank Schuermans (N), Member of the Commission on the Protection of Privacy. Candidates for the mandate of a member of the local police: - Mr Conseil Apers (N), Head of Information Management Department of the local police Leuven; - Mr Steven De Luyck (N), Commissioner-chief of the local police Vilvoorde-Machelen; - Ms Rose-Marie Farineau (F), police inspector at the Lokake Police Tournai; - Mr Pascal Matthieu (F), member of the current Supervisory Body on Police Information; - Mr Marc Monin (F), seconded from the local police area of Montgomery through the general inspection of the Federal Police to the current control body on police information. Candidatures for the term of local police officer: - Mr. Koenraad Apers (N), Head of Information Management Section, Local Police in Leuven; - Mr. Steven De Luyck (N), Chief Commissioner of Local Police of Vilvoorde Machelen; - Ms. Rose-Marie Farineau (F), police inspector at the local police in Tournai; - Mr. Pascal Matthieu (F), member of the current Police Information Review Body; - Mr. Marc Monin (F), seconded from the local police area Montgomery via the General Inspection of the Federal Police to the current Police Information Review Body. Candidates for the mandate of a member of the federal police: - Mr Joan Allaert (N), coordinator of judicial information within the FGP AIK Gent; - Mr Stefan De Proft (N), Head of Division for the Halle-Vilvoorde District Information Intersection; - Mr Didier Hardy (F), Chief Justice of the Namur Federal Judicial Police; - Ms Bérénice Jacmart (F), attorney at the federal judicial police in Brussels; - Ms Cécile Kruczynski (F), Adviser to the Executive Board of operational police information; - Mr Patrick Ludinant (F), Director of the Federal Judicial Police (Arrondissement of Tournai); - Mr Peter Merckaert (N), Head of the Arrondissementsluitheidsluite informatie-verkunt Brussel; - Mr Jaak Vandebosch (N), Member of the current Supervisory Body on Police Information; - Mr Joeri Van Nuffel (N), Police Commissioner, permanent section chief at the National Invasion Point: Interpol. Europol.............................................................................................................................................. Candidatures for the term of a federal police officer: - Mr. Joan Allaert (N), Judicial Information Coordinator within the AIK Gent FGP; - Mr. Stefan De Proft (N), Chief of Service, Hal-Vilvorde District Information Hub; - Mr. Didier Hardy (F), Judicial Commissioner of the Federal Judicial Police of Namur; - Ms. Bérénice Jacmart (F), a lawyer with the Federal Judicial Police in Brussels; - Ms. Cécile Kruczynski (F), Adviser to the Directorate of Operational Police Information; - Mr. Patrick Ludinant (F), Judicial Director, Federal Judicial Police, Tournai District; - Mr. Peter Merckaert (N), Head of Service, Brussels borough information hub; - Mr. Jaak Vandebosch (N), member of the current Police Information Review Body; - Mr Joeri Van Nuffel (N), Commissioner of Police, Head of Section of the Permanent Office at the National Contact Point: Interpol – Europol – SIRENE – Liaison Officers. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 December 2014, I propose that Mrs Bérénice Jacmart's candidacy be declared inadmissible. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 December 2014, I propose that you declare the candidature of Mrs Bérénice Jacmart inadmissible. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Candidates for the mandate of expert: - Mr Samuel Buzitu (F), Ergonomics Project Manager E-Gov; - heer François Danieli (F), attaché-jurist bij de FOD Justitie; - Mr Dirk De Bot (N), expert at the Commission for the Protection of Privacy; - Ms Veronica Delicata (F), attaché-expert HR at the FPS Home Affairs, staffing and organisation; - Mr Dany Donnen (F), member of the current Supervisory Body on Police Information; - Mr Koen Gorissen (N), Legal Adviser to the Commission for the Protection of Privacy; - Mr Thierry Mansvelt (F), judicial expert; - Mr Ronny Saelens (N), researcher/legal researcher Vrije Universiteit Brussel; - Mrs Ellen Van Dael (N), coordinator of statistical analysts at the College of Attorney General. Candidatures for the mandate of expert: - Mr. Samuel Buzitu (F), ergonoma – E-Gov Project Leader; - Mr. François Danieli (F), Legal Attaché to the FPS Justice; - Mr. Dirk De Bot (N), an expert with the Commission on the Protection of Privacy; - Ms. Veronica Delicata (F), HR Attaché to the Internal SPF, personal management and organization; - Mr. Dany Donnen (F), member of the current Police Information Review Body; - Mr. Koen Gorissen (N), Legal Adviser to the Commission on the Protection of Privacy; - Mr. Thierry Mansvelt (F), judicial expert; - Mr. Ronny Saelens (N), Researcher/Legal Researcher "Vrije Universiteit Brussel"; - Ms. Ellen Van Dael (N), Statistical Analyst Coordinator at the College of Attorneys General. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 December 2014, I propose that Mr Dany Donnen's candidacy be declared inadmissible. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 December 2014, I propose that you declare the candidature of Mr Dany Donnen inadmissible. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 December 2014, candidates will be heard in the Committee for Home Affairs, General Affairs and the Public Service. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 December 2014, candidates will be heard in the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u103	At the request of Mr Vanvelthoven, Mr Peter Vanvelthoven and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mrs Karin Temmerman and Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Dirk Van der Maelen amending the Income Tax Code 1992 as regards the tax system for legal constructions, No. 679/1, decoupled from the draft programme law, No. 672/1. At the request of Mr Vanvelthoven, Mr Vanvelthoven's bill. Peter Vanvelthoven and Ahmed Laaouej, Ms Karin Temmerman and Messrs. Stéphane Crusnière and Dirk Van der Maelen on the taxation regime for legal constructions, No 679/1, are disjunct from the draft programme law, No 672/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u104	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 December 2014, I also propose to you the proposal for a resolution tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Filip Dewinter and Mr Jan Penris on the abolition of the regime whereby two assistants are made available to former ministers and State Secretaryes, No. 700/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u105	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 December 2014, I also propose that you take into account the motion for a resolution by Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr M. Filip Dewinter and Jan Penris on the abolition of the provision of two employees to former ministers and secretaries of state, No 700/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u106	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u107	Vote on Amendment No 23 of Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an article 1/1 (n).(538/10) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an Article 1/1 (n).(538/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 44 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 25 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 2.(538/10) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Olivier Maingain cs to Article 2.(538/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[46]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 26 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 16. (538/10) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Olivier Maingain cs to Article 16. (538/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u108	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 24 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 16.(538/10) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 16.(538/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (...) : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, for technical reasons, I must start this vote again.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u110	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[46]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u111	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (538/11) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (538/11) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-11-54-plenair-ip020x.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a small but not insignificant communication on the agenda for next week's sitting. Contrary to what was agreed at the Conference of Presidents, questions will still be put during Thursday's work, which was not the subject of Question Time. It has been pointed out to me that it is more sensible to do so. I suggest that we do so with wisdom, in the sense that when issues arise in topicality, we deal with them during Question Time, but that all other possible questions are raised in connection with the discussion of the budget. I think we can find each other in that. [[Assent]] We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's meetings. We must approve the agenda for next week's sittings. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. I wish you a pleasant continuation of your work. The Infrastructure Committee will take place in the International Hall. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 17 December 2014 at 10 a.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, December 17, 2014 at 10.00 a.m.
