ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u1	Mr President, Minister, on June 11, the Delhaize brand presented a large-scale transformation plan, involving the closure of 14 supermarkets deemed unprofitable as well as the easing of the structure in other stores, totalling 2,500 job losses in the next three years. In the face of such bad news, it is likely that this re-entry will be marked by protests from trade union organizations, and thus by significant disruptions. This type of restructuring, which has already taken place in other brands, affecting this time a Belgian company of importance, as well as a very large number of workers, I come to ask some questions, minister, which you may be able to help me find some answers. What are the economic variables that play the most important role at the origin of this kind of sad news for both the school and its workers? Should we prepare for other similar situations in the near future? Will the Renault law be applied? The workers concerned are largely low-skilled, making their reclassification particularly difficult. How will they be framed? Are measures to create jobs, and more specifically jobs requiring few qualifications, being developed? I understand that my last question is quite broad and I know that there will still be an opportunity to talk about it when the policy notes are presented, which is why I will not formalise myself if you do not fully respond to it, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure for me to be able to answer all the questions and to attend all the discussions in this committee for five years. Mrs Jadin, your question is very important. I'm a little familiar with the file. Before the elections in May 2014, I had the opportunity to meet with the CEO of Delhaize and with responsible people in the company Albert Heijn. The situation is very nuanced, very complicated. You're right, the Delhaize file is very important. Delhaize is a Belgian company with many employees, well known in Flanders and Wallonia. Your questions are very relevant. Your first question is about the situation in the distribution industry. The situation is very delicate; I will give two or three points to highlight this. First, the legislative and regulatory framework. Former actors such as Delhaize and Carrefour are in a historic situation with well-assessed and positive collective agreements for employees. New companies such as Lidl, Aldi, Albert Heijn are in a completely different situation with regard to, for example, the average length of service of workers, their organisation, etc. For example, Albert Heijn works with a distribution centre in the Netherlands. All the goods come from there. Delhaize's situation is totally different. The second element is the question of the price of goods distributed in Belgium. The situation is very specific. To be brief, there is a price level difference of about 15% for similar products between Belgium and, for example, the Netherlands. It's very delicate. In this respect, the previous Government urged the Joint Committees to initiate a dialogue to find innovative solutions in response to the structural challenges faced by the companies involved. That is the situation! As far as the Joint Committees are concerned, the situation is complex. In this sector, you have the Joint Committees 2001 2002, 2002.2, 312, etc. This situation is specific to the distribution sector. That will answer your first question. For me, the most important thing is the big difference between former actors like Delhaize, Carrefour and others. Competition is very, very tough, especially for Delhaize and Carrefour. Secondly, the Renault law has indeed been implemented and several extraordinary works councils have succeeded each other in the process of informing and consulting workers. I understood that an extraordinary works council was set for November 4th, today. This law is very important, especially in the current situation of Delhaize. We are trying to find solutions for workers. Some elements are not federal but, after the sixth reform of the State, fall within the competence of the Regions. I hope that in Brussels, Wallonia and Flanders solutions will be found to help the workers concerned. As far as your third question is concerned, Madam, you have already received the answer, according to which certain elements fall within regional jurisdiction. I hope that solutions will be found in this area. I therefore hope that we can find a solution for the workers in Delhaize, but also for the company. Indeed, it is a very important company in the distribution sector. Like you, we are concerned about the various phases, especially in view of the Renault law. That said, for my part, I am convinced that solutions can be found in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u3	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your very explicit answer. I note that we share the same concerns and that we have the same analysis of the causes of this sad situation in Delhaize. You know I'm from Eupen. The workers of the Delhaize, which has been there for twenty years, have a nearly complete career. There will therefore be difficulties in terms of reclassification. In this respect, a very important challenge will have to be met, in consultation with the Regions. The aim will be to highlight the factors which led to this situation, the differences in the specificity of Delhaize, but also Carrefour, both of which are in the same situation. Moreover, as is the case with my region, border regions still suffer from differences in gross wages and gross employment costs between neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I have recently been questioned by people who are part of the Samilia Foundation, a foundation that fights against trafficking in human beings, especially young foreign football players. In the legislation on the employment contract for paid athletes, it is stipulated that a footballer who is not a national of the European Union may only obtain his/her work permit, and therefore his/her residence permit and his/her professional licence, provided that he/she receives a minimum wage fixed each year by royal decree and which runs at around 72 000 euros per year. With a few exceptions, it seems that no club in Belgium can pay this amount to these young players, often of African origin, who have not yet proved their worth. It is therefore normal for these clubs not to give them these amounts. Therefore, some clubs would hire these players as men to do everything in the stadiums. It goes without saying that they are not actually busy as such but are playing full-time football but without the status of a professional. Minister, I would have liked to know your position on this global issue. I did the search in relation to the new order that came into force. As I did not find it, I take this question to ask you for a copy. What is the minimum remuneration required to be declared a paid athlete and therefore the door opens to the granting of a residence permit for the 2014-2015 season? Are you considering adapting the ceiling to the reality of the terrain and therefore lowering it? If so, how much? What means of control are used to ensure that the law on the employment contract of the paid athlete is properly enforced? Do you intend to intensify the controls? How do you envisage better control of this phenomenon? Do you intend to contact your colleagues in the federal sports and employment entities to look at this issue from a more global perspective? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u5	Mr President, Mrs Winckel, my answer will be the same for several questions. For your first question, since 1 July of this year, jurisdiction over economic migration has been transferred to the Regions as part of the Sixth State Reform. Prior to that date, the Regions were already competent for the application of the norms relating to the occupation of foreign workers, but the normative power in itself was a federal jurisdiction. In recent months, this normative power no longer belongs to the federal state. As you have pointed out, the Regions are now competent for regulation, enforcement, control and maintenance. As far as your second question is concerned, however, the regulation as it existed on 30 June 2014 remains applicable until the Regions change it. I transmit to you the text contained in article 9.11 of the Royal Decree of 9 June 1999 implementing the Act of 30 April 1999 on the occupation of foreign workers. I have with me the text of article 9 that I can give you immediately. This provision eases the conditions of access for foreign paid athletes in Belgium by following the normal conditions of examination of the internal labour market. It is therefore not necessary to examine whether other people in Belgium are able to take up employment. In order to ensure that this flexibility does not take on inappropriate proportions, the requirement of high remuneration limits the scope of application to athletes of indisputable quality. The situation is therefore clear and avoids unacceptable situations. To answer your third question, I would point out that it is no longer up to the federal Minister of Employment to change these rules. With respect to your fourth question, I would say that with respect to the finding of offences, federal public servants have remained competent. These include the inspectors of the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation. However, in the current state, the social law enforcement service cannot exercise intensive control over the law on employment contracts for paid sportsmen. It is therefore clear that the Regions are competent, but that we retain competence in the field of inspection. For the rest, I can send you the royal decree. I hope that the regions, now responsible and competent, will change the provisions of the Royal Decree as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u6	Thank you, Minister. I do not doubt what you are saying, but I am going to check what is up to the regions with regard to this problem. When you say that control and inspection still depend on the federal government, I think there are really possible synergies with the federated entities and so I can only advise you to contact the federated entities in order to deal with this problem in a comprehensive way. When you say that the conditions in the law with regard to professional players concern the indisputable sporting qualities of the players, the problem is that in order to escape a framework, we propose a fictitious contract. The element is therefore biased because of the minimum amount which is far too high for clubs. This is therefore a real problem in the area of trafficking in human beings in particular. I don't know if I've made it clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u7	I understand the problem, Mrs Winckel, but I hope you have also understood that the situation is very delicate. If we change the amount, there is a huge risk that unacceptable situations will arise. That's where we have to find a balance. Your question concerns the reduction of the amount, I understand, but we must also avoid unacceptable situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u8	Yes, we had to limit and control.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the situation of so-called returning women. I refer to an article published in Le Soir in March of this year. These are women who have graduated, have one or more professional experience and have made the choice or have been forced, as a result of circumstances of life – very often for family reasons – to leave the labour market. For example, women who decide at some point to be fully involved in the upbringing of their child, to care for a sick or disabled child, to care for a sick husband or companion, or to stay with their elderly parents. After several years devoted to their families, they want to return to working life by applying in different sectors or by launching their own professional project as an independent. Resuming professional activity after a long absence is a major challenge. The article indicates that they would encounter a large number of barriers to obtaining work and would face indirect forms of discrimination. Yet these people are motivated, enthusiastic and qualified. In addition, they generally have excellent organizational skills and can demonstrate experience in many voluntary social activities in their children's educational, cultural or sporting institutions. Mr Minister, I would like to know whether this social group of people is receiving particular attention from your department. Are statistics available for the last five years on their number, average age, educational, professional, family profile and origin? Do you have any information on the terms of termination of contract or suspension of contract. Is notice given or is severance pay granted? Is it an agreed break, an employer's or worker's initiative, a suspension of the employment contract? In what form? Time credit, career break, parental leave? Can you provide statistics on this for the last five years, even if, to do so, the very term "returning woman" might need to be better defined? Do you have any information on the reintegration of the persons concerned into the labour market? Do they find a job in accordance with their training or similar to the job held before the break? What is the success rate of this job reintegration? What is the average duration of the first employment contract after resumption? Are there specific employment subsidies to encourage employers to hire them? What are they? Could you describe them to me? If so, how many people have been able to benefit from these employment subsidies? Finally, do these jobseekers benefit from specific support within regional structures such as Forem, Actiris and VDAB? In short, is there a form of positive incentives for returning women to employers and the related support? If not, do you envisage action in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Winckel, this is a very important issue and your questions are very relevant. I learned a lot about the statistics you asked for, but I was told that it was impossible to provide them. I recognize that this particular situation may surprise you. As part of the Sixth State Reform, employment policy focused on target groups was transferred to the Regions. Since 1 July 2014, the Regions have had the greatest autonomy in determining the target groups for which specific employment measures are required, as well as in determining the precise scope, amount, method of calculation of the aid and the period of intervention. I am not in a position to answer the other questions you have asked because it is now up to the Regions to organise things. I would point out, however, that you are right to ask questions about this situation. I will ensure that we can have statistics in the future, because if we are to solve this problem, it will be necessary to have them available.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u11	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. Having said that, I am surprised that there are no statistics. I wonder why a certain amount of information cannot be given about this public. Indeed, in my view, it is necessary to know the public well in order to take the necessary measures to reintegrate them into working life. In my opinion, it is a public that can easily hang on to employment. I therefore invite you to honour the commitments you made today and to ask your department to compile statistics on this category of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u12	Mr. Minister, at the beginning of this Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to a subject that is dear to me, namely the situation of child-friendly women. These workers have a fragile and precarious professional status and their numbers are steadily decreasing. They do not have access to paid leave and have limited rights such as sickness, unemployment and pension. They earn an unstable and derisory salary. They exercise their profession with heart and patience under difficult conditions. They have important responsibilities. These workers have been claiming full professional social status for many years. We know that this legitimate claim is not new. In the government agreement, unfortunately, I see no trace of the problem. Under the past legislature, working groups had been established with the governments of the federated entities. Although they could not be completed before the end of the legislature, a great deal of work has been done. I would like you to reassure us on this point. Does the federal government intend to reform the social status of children? Is there a willingness within the federal government to bring the sector's reform to fruition? If so, do you intend to continue the work started by your predecessor? In order to support the assumptions of work, simulations of the tax futures of full-status guests were requested from Mr. Geens, then Minister of Finance. To my knowledge, they were never provided. Are you going to demand them? How and when do you plan to start this important file? Are you going to take the initiative to question the ministers of the federated entities to relaunch the negotiations with a view to achieving a full and suitable professional status or do you intend to wait for them to question you? I also asked Mrs De Coninck about this. I was told that a pilot project had been launched in February in the Flemish Community. Can you give us more information about this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Winckel, I understand that there is a lot of discussion on this subject at the various levels of power. The question of a status for children's homes requires the consultation of several entities, as you have pointed out. The previous two Governments have tried, on several occasions, to reach a consensus to that effect, but unfortunately, so far, it has not been successful. In the Children's Friendly Corporation, not everyone is a plaintiff in obtaining a full status; in all cases, it does not generate better remuneration. I am of the opinion that a full status should be developed, but that it includes transitional measures for those who are already active under the current status. For the status to be complete, it must be addressed both in terms of labour law and in terms of social security. The tax impact of such a status must also be studied. Of course, I am convinced that you are familiar with all these elements, since you have already questioned the other ministers in the past. Like you, we hope to find an appropriate solution in this Parliament. In terms of labour law, there are no real difficulties. One solution was based on the Act of 3 July 1978 on employment contracts, which already has an appropriate legal framework, namely that of the contract of occupation of the worker at home. Another important point is the appointment of a competent joint committee. The question of the social security and tax implications of such a contract is more difficult. In addition, it is imperative to find the necessary funding in a difficult budgetary situation. I will therefore take the initiative, together with the relevant colleagues in the federal government, to enter into consultations with the relevant ministers of the regional authorities. You asked me, and I'll do it in the next few months. Of course, the limited financial resources available will have to be taken into account in order to find a solution to a new status. Finally, it is of vital importance that, with regard to the drafting of such a statute, extensive social consultation be held with the trade union organisations concerned. As regards your question concerning the situation in Flanders, you know that the Flemish Minister responsible for welfare is Mr Jo Vandeurzen. Its policy note includes a very important sentence concerning a pilot project. If you wish, I can provide you with the document. However, Jo Vandeurzen states very clearly that he will launch a pilot project in 2015 to provide for an employee status for children.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answer, even if it does not reassure me completely. I understand that there is a willingness to act, but I have not received a clear and clear answer to my questions. So, over what period will the transitional measures to which you referred earlier be extended? As far as the tax impact is concerned, a study has already been carried out under the previous mandate. For pity – do I want to say –, do not go away and rely on the work already done in order to avoid further waste of time! Indeed, the persons concerned are severely disadvantaged. At the federal level, many measures must be taken in terms of unemployment, holiday pay and tax status. I am convinced that, both in the Flemish Community and in the French Community, there is a will to move. What worries me is that nothing is said about this in the government agreement. I will therefore allow myself to return to the subject. That being said, can you tell me what you mean by "transitional period"? How long does this mean? I mean, I'm waiting for you to give me all the information you promised me. And I invite you not to wait months to get in touch with the federated entities because I am sure that there have already been developments at the level of the two Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u15	I know this delicate situation very well. I have noted the elements that you have also mentioned in your questions. You are right: there are many studies and proposals put forward to move forward. I am convinced that with all the elements in the file, we can work very quickly, as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u16	Mr. President, Minister, today any worker employed in foreign embassies and SHAPE has the opportunity to request parental leave or a career break to provide care to a seriously ill household member or family member. This situation was not previously possible due to the lack of a legal basis recognizing and organizing such leave. The Federal Ombudsman had drawn attention to this issue. A new Royal Decree regulating the possibilities, conditions and procedures for applying for parental leave or medical leave has been in force since 3 May of this year. Minister, after six months of application, I would like to know how many applications have been submitted to the National Employment Office since the recognition of this right? Can information be provided on the type of leave requested and the profile of the applicants?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Winckel, the answer will be very brief. The Royal Decree of 10 April 2014 introduced a right to parental leave and medical assistance leave for staff employed in foreign embassies and SHAPE. This Royal Decree entered into force on 23 April this year and, unfortunately, data on the number of beneficiaries who have already been granted such leave and the type of leave requested are not yet available.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u18	Do you know when the data will be available? Are these annual statistics?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u19	I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u20	The purpose of my question was the following. If, in the end, there are few people who submit a request, there may be an information problem and therefore it is a question of seeing how to better inform workers about this right.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u21	Mrs Winckel, getting statistics is an important task, but I will ask for a second time, after your speech, that figures be provided as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u22	It can be in six months. If your department thinks it takes a year to apply, there's no problem for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u23	I'll ask when the information can be provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u24	Mr Bonte stated that he cannot be present in good time. Consequently, his question No. 113 postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u25	Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate you on your presidency. I hope that we will be able to work together constructively over the next five years, as we used to be in the past in this Committee on Social Affairs. Minister, I also welcome you to our committee, and I hope for constructive cooperation, as we have known in the past. I come to my question. From the debates and reports of the past few days and from the budgetary table in the coalition agreement, I can conclude that a budget of 127 million for 2015 is reserved for social support at the index jump. For which benefit recipients will the assistance apply? After all, if I look, indicatively, at what an increase of 2% means for the minima and the defaults in the framework of the definition of the available envelope 2015-2016 as calculated by the Planning Bureau, without, however, taking into account the delays for time credit and career breaks in the share envelope for the RVA, then I come to almost EUR 170 million for the employee system, EUR 70 million for the self-employed and EUR 60 million for the welfare systems. In other words, the amount of 127 million is far from sufficient to compensate for the index jump for all the minimum and flat-rate benefits. Not only me, but also the people with modest benefits ask themselves what low benefits are eligible for so-called social assistance. Which right holders will be eligible for the so-called social guidance of the index jump? How was the envelope of 127 million euro calculated? What criteria will the government apply to take into account certain entitled persons for so-called social assistance?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u26	Mr President, Mrs Kitir, allow me to place my answer in the current atmosphere and clarify it. Over the last few days, the accusations have flown over and over - not from you, but in general, as if it were even in the government's DNA to want to hurt the ordinary people. Others claim that we are not serious about social dialogue and that we do not want to give it a real chance. I regret that this creates an atmosphere in which the opportunities to move forward in common consultation in the social and economic fields are not seen or not seen sufficiently or simply ignored. I hope that with the policy statements and discussions within the government we will be able to answer people's questions and address their concerns as quickly as possible. You asked one of those questions. I am prepared to answer all your questions and the questions that people are asking as clearly as possible. I understand very well that people are wondering why an index jump is being made, why pensions are being reformed and why the conditions of the SWT, the bridge pension, are being adjusted, which means that people have to work longer. Some say it's in our DNA to bully our constituents or undermine the social model. It is clear that there is no such thing. I do not think anyone really believes that a government would start a five-year term with that intention. We need to underline that even more. I hope to be able to make it clear in this committee, but also in the future, that this government has set itself the task of saving our social model, maintaining our social safety net and not putting our children up with a debt pile and an empty pension fund. We want to make our country socially and economically prosperous and encourage it to continue along the road to prosperity. That is why we need to give more text and explanation, and your question goes in that direction. The index jump is aimed at making companies more competitive. I'm kicking in open doors. It has also been mentioned that our labour cost handicap is 4.8 % compared to our neighbouring countries. That labour cost handicap destroys jobs and provides restructuring. That's something you've been through very closely. In other cases, too, I have seen very clearly in a previous life the problem of wage costs and experience how they are dealt with if they are not adjusted in Belgium. What needs to be made even clearer is that the complete elimination of that handicap by a reduction of charges..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That would cost us 6 billion. Our intention was not to incur 6 billion additional debts each year, to reduce benefits by EUR 6 billion or to increase taxes by EUR 6 billion. Those were the other options if we had not made an index jump. Once again, I believe that the debate on this issue should continue in complete and calm terms and that it should be clarified. The path chosen by the government is a combination of an index jump, a reduction in charges and a sustained wage moderation. It's true that every employee makes an effort. This also increases the chance that he and his colleague will keep their jobs and, more importantly, that they may be able to invest in additional jobs again. There are models, for example from the National Bank, that were used to calculate the index jump in positive effects, not only in the competitive position of our companies, but also in the creation of additional jobs. There will be an important action on Thursday. I hope that we can discuss this further here too. It is obvious that an effort is required, but that effort has a finality, namely keeping jobs or creating new jobs. Unfortunately, there have been many closures of industrial companies in our country in the past. I can tell you that the issue of labour costs was not the only problem, but one of the most important. I myself went to Volvo's headquarters, where I was told very clearly that wage costs in Belgium are a problem, among other problems, and that we had to deal with this because otherwise the situation would not be sustainable for them. Wage costs are therefore important. The effort of 2% ensures that such dramas, which we have experienced very closely, I have also been there, I have also stood at those gates and I know how terrible it is to be faced with them, are kept to the minimum. Let us hope that this will give workers more job guarantees. With those who think that is antisocial, I would like to discuss it further. In addition, we explicitly expect employers to make a clear commitment, in particular to use the means released to protect jobs and create new jobs. I'm not turning around. We call for clear efforts with the index jump, the increase in charges and so on, but we also call on employers to be clear in the next few days and weeks in the social dialogue about their commitment to use the resources released through the index jump to invest, innovate, but also to protect jobs and create new jobs. I therefore ask employers and employees to consider how best to use the margin at each level to speed up job creation. This is an important element in the social dialogue. Mr President, Mr Kitir, I would like to stress once again, together with my fellow ministers, that this government also has a social heart and a social face. This government also wants to protect people who are less able to handle the index jump than others from the direct consequences, pending the positive effects on growth and employment. To this end, there are three elements which I will not go into exhaustively, because I would also like to answer the specific questions, but I will mention them. A first element is the increase in the amount of professional costs. A second element is the maintenance of the welfare envelope throughout the legislature. I trust that we will be able to do something very quickly on this matter. The law already contains a number of automatic indicators. I hope that we will succeed in bringing the social partners around the table, because this government has made a sum available for the welfare envelope and I hope that this amount can be distributed by the social partners in a different way from the automatic indicators set out in the law. This distribution should be directed primarily at those who need it most, to those who are most affected by the socio-economic situation in Belgium. The amount of EUR 127 million does not come from the application of the welfare envelope calculation rules, as you know, but is an additional envelope which ensures that all minimum benefits can be increased by 1%, with the exception of some unemployment benefits. The exclusion of unemployment benefits is in line with the problem of the fall in unemployment and so on. That explains the difference. You are asking for the difference between the 170 million and 127 million; that difference is the fact that a number of unemployment benefits are not dealt with by the 127 million. What does that mean for the minimum benefits? Now, a budget has been set up to grant these benefits an increase of 1% over the next two years through the additional envelope and by 2% through the normal application of the welfare envelope. Of course, the actual use of these funds is determined in consultation with the social partners, as I have already mentioned. This means that beneficiaries, even at a time when difficult efforts are required, continue to improve. In short, a budget is foreseen for an increase of 3% in minimum benefits, while they lose 2% due to the index jump. In real terms, it can therefore be said that in the next two years we will even improve 1%. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the welfare envelope is essentially designed to allow benefits to follow the development of wages. Historically, this has resulted in parameters where annual average benefits could rise by 0.5 %, minimum benefits by 1% and ceilings by 1.75 %. As wages have been blocked for several years and will not be able to increase or be blocked significantly in the coming period, benefits are slowly catching up with wages rather than following them. In other words, it can be said that a catching-up operation has been carried out. This policy is not the policy of an antisocial government, as some claim. We are talking about a catching-up movement for benefits in relation to wages. It will continue, as has happened in the past. At the end of the legislative term, social expenditure will have increased by EUR 10.5 billion compared to today, due to the combined effect of the ageing population, which will result in many more pensioners, and the additional growth of the welfare envelope. 10.5 billion extra investment in benefits is not antisocial. With this answer and with the effort we are doing, we certainly shape the social face.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u27	Thank you for your clear answer, Minister, but can I ask you to stay within five minutes? However, it is an important subject. We would like to make an exception for that. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that you need a lot of words to explain that an antisocial measure might be social after all. That is true in your words, but I have listened very carefully to your explanations. I do not go into your introduction to the atmosphere and to the fact that you regret it. My opinion is that the government itself has facilitated this atmosphere. If you had taken the social consultation seriously, you would have sat down at the table earlier. You say that things are told that are not true and that people are scared. Excuse me, Minister, but if I read your coalition agreement and hear your statements, both in Parliament and in the newspapers, then I note that you yourself make a different story every time. You promised that there would be social corrections on the index spong for benefits and that the lowest benefits would not be affected. You are now trying to make a turn by saying that there will be an increase of 3 %, while 2 % will be lost, which means that you will get a net increase of 1 %. Excuse me, but that welfare adjustment was meant to be on top of the index. So it was actually 2 plus 2. What happens now? There will be no social correction. People only get half a correction. Your words are worth nothing at all because you constantly change the story yourself. One must remain fair in this whole story. If I am wrong, you may contradict me, but I remember, Minister, that there will be no social correction. On the contrary, the lowest benefits will have to cut half instead of avoiding the index jump.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u29	Mr President, I note that many answers will have to follow after my reply to clarify this. You are right, Mrs Kitir, that this is the responsibility of the government. I believe that it is an important task of every minister to demonstrate with the necessary figures and the necessary concrete elements which the government has assumed and how it wishes to emphasise that social element very strongly. It is not my custom to refer to previous governments. We were also in the previous government. As far as that is concerned, I think it is a little narrow to refer to it over and over again. Mrs Lanjri was right to point out that throughout the debate on the welfare envelope, the debate on the 60% versus 100% was of great importance in the light of the formation of this government. The previous government never paid that 100 percent. It is true that family allowances go to the regions. This must therefore be deducted from the total budget. As far as the welfare envelope is concerned, we are more committed than during the previous period. I hope that the social partners will sit around the table after the actions it may become possible to find a consensus so that the welfare envelope can be distributed among those who need it most and therefore we do not have to apply or change the automations that are included in the law. The social partners have an important role to play in this respect. The social partners blamed us for the fact that we should have come to an agreement earlier. However, there must first be a government agreement and it seems to me customary that the social partners should not be involved in the formation of a government. This seems to me to be a good thing, and I am assuming that we will keep it that way. I am aware that social dialogue must be given sufficient room on both sides to make social dialogue worthwhile, so that everyone can sit at the table. It should not be one-sided, where one can sit back and the other has to work hard. I fully understand that. As far as the percentages are concerned, you can read the written preparation of my reply, which I will deliver to you later. As far as the benefits are concerned, I think it is right that we take together the welfare envelope and the 127 million. If you would then like to compare it with the past, I would like to come back to that when you have had the opportunity to read it. Mr President, I know that I must stick to the timetable. However, it is important that a number of things are made clear in this committee too. Mrs Kitir, you do not have to agree with me, but there must be clarity about the measures that this government has decided on, what it will implement and what amounts are involved. On the basis of that information, we can then have the debate. You may then say that you disagree, but there can be no doubt about certain decisions or intentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u30	Minister, if you refer to previous governments, I am glad that you are not just referring to the socialists. After all, part of your government is rather selective and forgets who was in the previous government. So I appreciate your honesty in that story. If you look at the previous government, please note that the previous government used the welfare envelope to put it at the top of the index. That completes the story. If you're just pulling out the welfare envelope, you're not doing the right thing. So please give the full story. We will continue the discussion at the appropriate time, probably at hearings or in the discussion of the policy papers. If you say you're using the index jump to create jobs, I'm staying a little hungry there too. You say that you will reduce the burden and that you will demand a clear commitment from employers. You are asking for a very clear commitment from the workers, but what does that mean clearly that you are asking employers to do? In what way will you check whether employers actually use that budget to create jobs? After all, there is not a single study yet that really demonstrates that a wage delivery creates jobs, as you know. You have followed that very closely and I do not need to explain it to you. I'm still hungry there, too. Let me get this straight. Firstly, with the previous government, the welfare adjustment was at the top of the index. You're going to abolish the index and then you're going to make a welfare adjustment. I still think that's a loss. I look forward to your figures on that. Secondly, how do you guarantee that this index jump will create jobs?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u31	Mr President, this is an important debate and I think we should have it at the time when we are discussing the policy letter. All sorts of things are said here that don't add up.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u32	Mrs Lanjri, I understand that, but anyone in this House can ask questions. The Minister may reply. However, the Rules of Procedure do not allow us to hold a topical debate on this subject. I want to have the debate, that's not a problem. We will certainly come back to this subject. However, the Minister's answer was very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u33	Minister, I have had to observe that the way in which we debate in committee is something different than in our previous constellation in the Flemish Parliament where there are interactive debates. Perhaps that is something to think about, especially in the case of interesting themes such as the previous question. My question is a little less politically sensitive, but still important. In the federal government agreement, we are committed to avoiding unemployment traps or employment traps as far as possible, both in sickness insurance and unemployment benefits. We are trying to get as many people working as possible to secure our social security in the future. That is a social approach, as you yourself have come to emphasise. In that light, I am concerned about a ruling of the Constitutional Court of 16 October 2014. That judgment concerns the part-time reintegration of work on its own initiative after full incapacity for work. The Constitutional Court makes a difference as one had or did not have the agreement of the counseling physician to resume the work. The Constitutional Court considers that the resumption of part-time work after a period of complete incapacity for work, with the agreement of the counsellor, does not imply voluntary part-time work; in this case part-time work is involuntary. If you resign, you will receive the full cancellation allowance. According to the Constitutional Court, a person who, on his own initiative, takes up part-time employment but is not covered by the medical adviser of the sickness fund voluntarily chooses to do so. If you resign, you lose half the notice. I believe that the ruling is in itself questionable, but it is there, also in the legal order. Anyone taking part-time employment on his own initiative after a period of complete incapacity for work is therefore at risk of being penalised by the loss of half the termination allowance. That's a new employment trap. Do you share my view, Minister, that there is a risk for those who take part-time work on their own initiative? Can you confirm that risk? Will you take initiatives to prevent such employment traps? This problem arises not only in the case of incapacity for work but also in other cases. Do you consider that initiatives are possible to calculate the termination fee in order to reverse the negative effects?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u34	Mr Lachaert, you are right to raise the issue. There has so far been no legislation for the resumption of parttime work following sickness at the level of employment, as has already been done in the case of sickness and invalidity insurance. You refer to the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 16 October 2014. The legislation on sickness and invalidity insurance was not applicable. In view of the absence of a legal framework, the employment situation of the worker who partially resumes his work after a period of illness is therefore the subject of legal uncertainty and controversy. That is why your question is quite right. I hope, however, that you have also read the coalition agreement. It states that the government will work towards better reintegration of disabled workers. In this context, it will therefore be necessary to settle the employment situation of a worker who has partially resumed his work. In addition to the right of dismissal, other aspects of labour law will have to be addressed, such as the impact of reintegration on guaranteed wage rights. So you're right to point out the problem. There is some legal uncertainty and controversy about this. The government agreement clearly states that the government will settle the matter. We will therefore come to the Committee on Social Affairs at some point with a draft law to eliminate legal uncertainty and controversy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which gives me satisfaction. The problem has been raised in this way. I am pleased that the issue will be taken into account in the debate on the creation of a legal framework that will provide certainty for those who have the will to resume work after a period of complete incapacity for work.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u36	We look forward to the first design.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vercamer has converted 238 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Somers' 244 was postponed to a next committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u38	Minister, we live in a time of social agitation. Next Thursday, many trade union organisations from a number of sectors will go down to Brussels, including those of the Flemish port workers. The Flemish port workers come here with a special concern. They are concerned about the reform you are planning in your coalition agreement. Your coalition agreement states: "The government will make proposals to modernise the port labour system in consultation with the social partners." The port workers have questions as to what modernisation of the port can mean. For those Members who are not familiar with the sector, I would like to make it clear that the port labour law provides that port labour in the port areas may only be carried out by authorised port workers. Some implementing decisions define what port labour is, which are the recognized port areas, and how one can become a recognized port worker. Minister, the port labour law is the cornerstone of the tradition of social peace in our Flemish ports. That's their strength. Since 1960 there has been an almost uninterrupted tradition of social peace, with the exception of the wild strike of 1973, inspired by a number of Maoist agitators. Other ports envy us that social peace. The law on port labour also allows us to have a selection of port workers, motivated workers who belong to the best in the world or are even the best in the world, to the satisfaction of our port customers, who are willing to pay a little more for the good work done in our Flemish ports by our Flemish port workers. How are your government's reform plans coming along? What can we and what can our port workers mean by your intention to modernise the port labour law?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u39	Mr Penris, it is a very important discussion. I hope my answer will help calm the moods. You're asking for an update. On 23 March 2014, my predecessor, then Minister Monica De Coninck, received a letter of formal notice from the European Commission concerning the organisation of port work laid down in the Act of 8 June 1972 and its implementing decisions and collective agreements. The Commission failed Belgium because the organisation of port work would infringe Article 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. That article guarantees freedom of establishment. The Commission saw five reasons for this. Firstly, the obligation to work with authorized port workers coming from a single pool; secondly, the restriction of freedom of choice for the duration of the contracts of employment; thirdly, the obligations relating to shift composition; fourthly, the prohibition of multitasking; and finally, the need to have logistical port workers recognised. In recent months, there have been several informal contacts between the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Dialogue, on the one hand, and the Directorate-General MOVE, Mobility and Transport, on the other, in order to provide arguments for maintaining the Belgian port labour system. There is currently no definitive position of the European Commission. On the basis of the contacts, we do know that the Commission does not think that our current response to the letter of formal notice is sufficient. This is why the administration has been urged to seek, in consultation with the social partners and with the social partners, adjustments to the work organisation which adequately respond to the Commission's concerns. It was agreed with the Commission that a state of play will be discussed at the beginning of December in order to assess whether the results of the consultations are moving in the right direction. In the meantime, discussions between the social partners are continuing on this issue and, in my contacts with Europe, I will of course advocate the Belgian position on port labour. As you know, port work is the responsibility of the Commissioner for Transport, and that has recently become a Slovene. The position of the new government is the same as that of the previous one, for the sake of clarity. Port labour can be modernised on a number of points, but this must always be done in consultation with the social partners. I would also like to point out that the social partners themselves agreed on 26 March this year a series of modernisations in the fields of influx policy, security policy, modernisation of the notion of logistics quota, etc. However, the European Commission does not consider these modernisations to be sufficient. As you rightly say, the employers and employees of Belgian ports are doing a very good job, including in the existing legal framework of the Major Act. I hope that the government will be able to work well with the trade unions and the employers' organizations to bring this dossier to a successful conclusion and to continue the modernisation which they themselves have already put in place and on which they have already agreed a number of things, in order to convince the European Commission to put an end to this deficiency and further procedure and to accept what we have agreed on in the field of the modernisation of port work.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u40	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased with your answer for the time being. In December I will probably be able to bring the dossier back here, because we will have new elements at our disposal. Minister, I note, and this is not insignificant, that you continue to emphasise the role of the social partners in this matter. Before I went into politics, I was the executive attaché of Cepa, the employers' center of our port workers, and so I know how well this social consultation can work. I think it is important for you to stress this, because the French text of the coalition agreement clearly mentions'moderniser le staut dans le travail portuaire'; there is no mention of these social partners. I think this is a translation error, but I note that you want to take the role of the social partners seriously, for which I thank you. Mr President, it may be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u41	Everything is being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic011x.u42	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his presence and my fellow Members for their interesting questions.
