ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u1	Minister, it will be a coincidence that I will be able to ask my question at the time when a colloquium on poverty is taking place in this House, namely in 15 years of cooperation in poverty. The colloquium is taking place in the Senate. I just stopped by. The subject on which I would like to question you is also about poverty, in particular about the Social Heating Fund. There's been an evaluation in the federal poverty plan. A number of points have been included on the evaluation of the Social Heating Fund. Mrs De Block, your predecessor, and her colleague at the time responsible for Energy, Minister Wathelet, instructed the fund to examine how the legal system of distributed payments could be better applied. Many people living in poverty have difficulties in paying invoices for the supply of fuel oil. One of the possibilities is to ensure that the supplier does not have to pay everything at once, but that this can be spread out. A vision text on this issue was adopted in April 2013 and during that period Minister De Block proposed to evaluate and, if necessary, adapt the award criteria for the interventions of the Social Heating Fund. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Firstly, what are the broad lines of the vision text on the system of distributed payments? How will you follow up on this? Will you possibly change the system or will you only bet on a better information campaign for suppliers and customers? And if so, how are you going to do that? I think this is also very important and useful in itself. Secondly, has the evaluation of the criteria for granting the Social Heating Fund been carried out? If not, when do you expect it? If it did take place, what are your conclusions? Finally, have you discussed this issue with your colleague, Mrs Sleurs? Is she somehow involved in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, in reply to your questions I can give the following information. Energy has become a good of first need for human dignity, among other things. That is why the then Secretary of State for Social Integration, Ms Maggie De Block, included the issue in the federal poverty reduction plan. The system of distributed payments is currently being used too little by the target groups of the fuel oil fund. On the basis of the evaluation carried out by Möbius, a working group with representatives of all oil federations and the federal administration proposed to encourage and improve the system of distributed payments. Thus, everyone has access to the spread payment system and the most disadvantaged people can get fuel for their heating in the winter. In accordance with the government agreement, the social energy funds for gas, electricity and also fuel oil will be evaluated and, if necessary, reformed and adapted. I would like to take the time to study the matter in greater depth before I speak on it. The evaluation in question did not take place. I will take up this task in cooperation with the Minister for Energy, Mrs Marie-Christine Marghem. I also intend to work closely with Mrs Marghem, who is responsible for Energy, and with my colleague, Mrs Elke Sleurs, Secretary of State for Combating Poverty. In any event, as provided for in the government agreement, it will draw up a new multi-annual federal action plan to combat poverty and address the relevant ministers. I would therefore ask you to bear with me a little more patience for concrete measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u3	Madam President, Minister, I understand from this that I will have to be patient before you complete the evaluation, together with your fellow Members. That's not a problem. I'll come back to that later. However, I would like to ask you, in the meantime, to make the system of distributed payments, which, as you say and as has been shown by studies, is too little known by the target groups, better known to the public, to take further awareness actions and to make it clear to the target group, the OCMWFs and suppliers that people can effectively pay their fuel oil bill in a spread way. I would like to insist on that, pending the evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vercamer converted 448 into a written question. This brings us to item 3 of the agenda, which is the combined questions of Mrs Hufkens and Mrs Gantois. Mrs. Gantois is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u5	Madam President, Minister, the topicality of this question has since disappeared. In addition to her illness, that is why my colleague, Mrs Gantois, is not asking her question. I know that this issue has already been discussed in plenary, but there have been new facts after that. I'll be brief. In the middle of November it became known that a highly contagious variant of the avian flu had been discovered in a poultry farm near Utrecht in the Netherlands. This variant "H5N8' is particularly contagious for people in contact with infected animals. In the meantime, contamination sites have also been discovered in Great Britain. The European Commission and the Netherlands ensured that export restrictions were announced. At present, however, there is still a great deal of uncertainty about the potential exposure and the risk of contamination. A while ago, the BFSA indicated that it would closely monitor the severity of the situation, especially since migratory birds such as the smient, who hibernates in Belgium, would also carry the flu virus and thus cause the spread of the disease. Mr Minister, have contamination sites been identified in Belgium in the meantime? Does the BFSA have a plan in place if there are still fireplaces to be determined in our country? As far as this plan is concerned, is it possible to ban imports?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u6	Madam President, I will also answer Mrs Gantois' combined question. First and foremost, I will briefly give an update on the avian flu, knowing that no cases have yet been reported in Belgium. Avian influenza or avian influenza is a highly contagious virus disease for which all poultry and many other bird species are susceptible. There are different strains of the virus. Some of them, the so-called highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses, cause very serious disease signs and high mortality in infected poultry. This type of virus was first discovered in Europe at the beginning of November, when an infection was detected on a turkey farm in Germany. A little later in England there was also an outbreak on a duck farm. Until then, the virus was only known in Asia. During the weekend of 16 November, such a high pathogenic strain of type H5N8 was established in the Netherlands. Since then, four other outbreaks have been confirmed in the Netherlands, the last of which was at the end of November. Yesterday a new outbreak was observed in a turkey farm in Germany in the district of Cloppenburg in Lower Saxony. I know that place. The typing studies are currently under way. As usual when establishing a high pathogenic avian influenza virus, national authorities immediately apply the control measures laid down in European legislation. I'll explain this right away. Following the confirmation of the third outbreak in the Netherlands at the end of November, on the recommendation of the BFSA and after consultation with the agricultural organisations concerned, I decided on the same day to introduce an obligation to store for the whole of Belgium. In this way, the maximum possible contamination by migratory birds, which is considered to be the most likely way of transmitting the disease, can be avoided. precautionary measures shall also apply to persons and vehicles that have passed or come into contact with animals from infected areas. More specifically, in reply to Question No 515 by Mrs Hufkens, I can say the following. In an opinion of 13 November, the ECDC, European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, stated that the risk of the H5N8 virus to public health is very low. This virus has been circulating in Asia for many years, but fortunately it has not given rise to human contamination so far. The Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain has an operational emergency plan for the control of avian influenza. This plan sets out the measures required by European legislation to protect public health and the sectors concerned. European rules prohibit the transport of live poultry and certain poultry products in the protection zone and the surveillance zone, which are delimited around each outbreak. These measures currently apply to the areas concerned. Since the first outbreak in the Netherlands, the BFSA has regularly sat around the table with the professional organisations concerned, on the one hand, to compare the situation regarding the outbreaks and the measures in the Netherlands, on the other, to explain the preventive measures in Belgium and to point out to the sector its responsibilities regarding biosafety and good practice. The regions are also represented. People are informed about the state of play at regular or special meetings. Given the role that wild birds may play in the introduction of the virus in Europe, the BFSA also exchanged information and planned consultations with the three regional services responsible for animal health in wild animals. The four parties have been working together for many years on monitoring avian influenza in wild birds. Finally, both the cabinet of my federal colleague in Health and the cabinets of my regional colleagues in charge of Agriculture are kept informed by my cabinet. I have other information available.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that, fortunately, no fireplaces have yet been discovered in Belgium. I believe it is important not to cause panic, because the risk of avian influenza virus is very small here. However, the danger has not yet disappeared, because in Germany infections have been identified this week. It reassures me that the BFSA is taking many measures, including consultation with agriculture and an operational emergency plan. We are following this case, but hopefully the contingency plan is not necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u8	Mr Minister, legally, since Saturday 13 December, every meal card must contain a package leaflet containing allergen information, but Horeca Flanders was told that they received an exception from the Public Health Office. Informing the customer about the ingredients used would suffice in Belgium. According to Allergynet, that wouldn't work. Horeca Flanders stated that they would follow the guidelines orally, but waited for final information from the FOD to launch a major information campaign. The FPS Public Health, however, considered that he should not provide any additional information and left the right of initiative to the hospitality sector. Meanwhile, 13 December is a few days behind us and yesterday I read in the newspaper the following: "There are hardly any issues in our country that are aware of this changing legislation. UNIZO self-employed organisation states that there is still a lot of work to be done." How was the information campaign organised? How will the BFSA carry out the checks? Were additional auditors recruited for this purpose? If so, how many? Finally, what are the possible sanctions for those who do not comply with the new rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u9	The provisions relating to the indication of allergens for non-prepacked foods were drawn up in consultation with all interested parties. The Royal Decree of 17 July 2014 provides the opportunity to communicate information orally to the consumer. This possibility was offered to operators to give them more flexibility, for example when the composition of products changes regularly or even daily. In the case of written communication, it would oblige operators to replace the documents containing the information, such as menu cards, each time. Oral communication is only permitted if certain criteria are met: the information must be able to be provided at any time at the consumer's request; the institution must develop a procedure in its self-checking system to ensure that the information is delivered correctly and in time; each institution shall be responsible for the introduction of a procedure adapted to the specific characteristics of the institution. The decision therefore imposes a commitment to results and does not prescribe the means. However, the means chosen must be effective in meeting the obligations. Monitoring compliance with the provisions is the responsibility of the Federal Agency. This completes a letter containing the main elements to be included in the procedure, as well as a model of the procedure. As regards the information campaign, a news item was posted on the website of the FPS Public Health at the time of the publication of the Royal Decree. The part of the website on labelling was fully adapted with a view to the entry into force of the Regulation and the resulting Royal Decree. A joint press release with the FPS Economy will be launched in the coming days. The BFSA will carry out the control of allergenic information in the case of non-prepacked foods during routine inspections under the control programme with operators supplying directly to consumers. The standardised checklist will be used to verify that information is correctly transmitted. The information may be communicated in writing. In that case, it shall be clearly legible on a physical or electronic medium at the place of sale. Where the information is provided orally, there should be a procedure at the place of sale ensuring that the information is correctly communicated if the consumer so requests. No additional staff will be recruited in view of the well-known budgetary measures. If non-conformity is identified, the operator must put the situation in order. Depending on the weight of the infringements detected during the inspection, this leads to a warning or a report with a proposal for an administrative fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u10	Thank you, Minister. It is well known that 5% of children and 2% of adults suffer from nutritional allergies. You say that in the current budgetary context there may be fewer inspectors and that there will be no additional recruitment, but I would urge you to do more than issue a press release. I advocate a good information campaign. In addition, I propose to register the checks carried out, so that they can be monitored specifically. I would like to come back to that in a few months or at the end of next year to know how many checks on allergies have been carried out and whether the target has not been missed. 5 per cent of children and 2 per cent of adults are a large proportion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u11	We will assess the implementation of the provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u12	Minister, on 11 November the European Court of Justice ruled on the Dano case. It concerns the application of Article 7 of Directive 2004/38, so that a Romanian woman who had been in Germany for more than three months but did not have sufficient resources and was not working or looking for work had not received assistance from the OMCW. The Court held that this could and was not contrary to the Directive. In the previous legislature, we passed a law in our country which I cooperated with to give people from Europe the opportunity to seek work here, but Europeans are not entitled to assistance from the OMCW for the first three months anyway. In the context of the free movement of workers, of course, Europeans have the right to look for work and they have the time to do so. If they do not find work, they can be deported. Another scheme is that, when Europeans have worked or have not worked for a while and after three months address themselves to the OCMW, the OCMW may allow or refuse aid. The OMCW may refuse such support if it is considered that the person in question constitutes an unreasonable burden on social assistance. In some cases this is done. I take Antwerp as an example. Europeans are almost systematically reminded that they will not receive support: they are basically entitled to it, but they are likely to lose their residence permit. Other cities are more flexible at that. In Ghent, for example, it is easier for Europeans to get support from the OMCW. There are differences and the labour court also plays a role in this. In the previous legislature, the decision was taken to cross-reference data from people from Europe who have not been here for so long with the data from the OCMWFs. Since June 2011, the FPS Social Integration Data has been intersecting with the Foreign Affairs Office. People receiving benefits for more than three months are systematically examined on a case-by-case basis. One checks whether these people lose their residence permits because they are an unreasonable burden on the OCMW. Some OCMWs do not make this decision themselves, it is then the result of data crossing. From July 2011 to 8 October 2014, 5 478 Europeans lost their residence permits because they are an unreasonable burden on social assistance: they wrongly applied for benefits from the OCMW and therefore lost their residence permit. Although this is also partly the responsibility of your colleague, Theo Francken, I have a few specific questions for you. Do you think that Belgium will be affected by that ruling of the European Court of Justice? In the meantime, how many EU citizens were refused by the OMCW? I myself gave you the figures of the people who lost their residence permit, but there are many more people who made the application and were refused. So my question is how many people have applied and how many have been refused by the OCMW? How many people initially received funds from the OMCW, whether wrongly or not, and were then expelled? Has the money been recovered in certain cases? You don't get the money back? How much money is it all about? Do we have a view of the municipalities where most people try to get benefits and those where most people are refused benefits? Which OMCWFs are leading the way in refusing EU citizens or allowing support to EU citizens? What initiatives have already been taken to draw attention to the legal possibility of effectively refusing support to Europeans? I have often experienced on the ground that OCMWFs simply do not know that they can refuse people if they are an unreasonable burden on assistance. Have any additional information campaigns been launched? Is that what's happening? Have there been any guidelines given to the OCMWFs? After all, it is very striking that this differs from OCMW to OCMW and that only now, with the crossing of the data, more is emerging. What initiatives do you intend to take yourself on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u13	Minister, my question concerns the same issue, the right to social integration and social services during the first three months of residence in our country as an EU citizen. She is also in line with a question I put to your colleague Mr Peeters in plenary. Mr Lanjri has already told the story of the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 11 November. This was a German case in which assistance was requested and it was finally possible to refuse it legally. So I will not repeat that part of my introduction. However, I would also like to refer to a ruling of the Constitutional Court of 30 June 2014. Part of Article 57quinquies of the Organic OCMW Act was therefore destroyed. That too was actually about the right to social services during the first three months of the stay. It stated that there should be no exclusion from maintenance aid as long as there is a conditional right of residence. The judgment shall be binding. We are confronted here with a number of statements of interest to OMCWFs in the light of their preparation in support files, which they face every day. Following the ruling of the Constitutional Court, the PPS Social Integration has indeed sent an instruction or letter to the various OCMW members. I would like to join with Mrs Lanjri's question on the judgment of the European Court of Justice. I also have the following specific questions. Can you tell me how many EU citizens have addressed our OMCWs over the period 2013-2014 in an attempt to claim the right to social integration or the right to social services? Is there an evolution in this respect with regard to previous years? Do you have a view of the number of EU citizens who have received OCMW aid, while, in accordance with the caselaw mentioned above, they were entitled to do so, because they have not been resident in Belgium for three months or have not had a right of residence for more than three months? What are the consequences in practice of the recent judgment of the Constitutional Court? In the light of these statements, do you consider it necessary to amend the legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u14	Madam President, in reply to the questions about quantified data, I can say the following. Firstly, you asked about the number of EU citizens who have turned to an OMCW to apply for the right to social inclusion (RMI) or the right to social assistance (RMH). In 2013, 14 885 people requested the RMI, 3 230 people requested the RMH. This latter figure may still be incomplete, given that the OMCWs have 12 months to submit their cost statement. In 2014, 13 261 people applied for the RMI and 1 895 people applied for the RMH. Secondly, I am sorry, but it is impossible to provide you with data on the number of applications rejected. The OMCW is autonomously competent to verify that EU citizens and their families who apply to the OMCW are actually entitled to these rights. The PPS Social Integration does not have any data on this issue. Thirdly, you asked how many people wrongly received social assistance before they were expelled. Here too, it is impossible to give you figures. After all, it is primarily up to the Foreign Office to verify whether the application is unreasonable and to expel the people. However, these persons may also leave on their own initiative or have simply found work. That is why, unfortunately, no figures are available. Finally, I would like to respond to Mr Lachaert's question. It is also impossible to give figures on the number of decisions on social assistance taken since July 2014 which had to be revised on the basis of the provision repealed by the Constitutional Court. The impact of the judgments is as follows. Firstly, with regard to Mr Lachaert's third question, the impact of the June 2014 judgment of the Constitutional Court will be rather limited a priori. Indeed, the persons to whom the judgment relates are essentially EU citizens who have come to our territory as employees or self-employed persons. They can now be entitled to this social service immediately. However, this group of people, EU citizens, has the least recourse to the right to social integration and/or the right to social assistance. In this respect, fraud is detected among persons who invoke the status of self-employed persons in order to obtain a residence permit. On 9 265 applications, 3 544 people were excluded. The judgment also concerns EU citizens who invoke one of these qualities, while in reality they do not have one. However, they will be entitled to benefit. Their data will quickly be integrated into the data flows between the Foreign Affairs Office and the PPS Social Integration Office, and the Foreign Affairs Office will be able to take measures more quickly to examine the residence permit of the persons concerned. Secondly, with regard to Mrs Lanjri's first question, the consequences for Belgium of the Dano judgment will be virtually non-existent a priori. It is only social benefits which are not based on the payment of contributions or contributions that are the subject of that judgment. Now, the right to social assistance and the right to social integration are not special benefits based on the payment of contributions or contributions. It is therefore not possible for an OMCW to refuse the right to social assistance or the right to social integration, first and foremost because our matter is not intended. I come to the question of a possible legislative initiative. As far as Mr Lachaert's fourth question is concerned, there is currently no need for a legislative initiative. In its judgment of June 2014, the Court annulled only the interpretation of Article 57quinquies. In response to this judgment, the letter of August 2014 concerning the interpretation of the second indent of Article 3° of the May 2002 Law on the Right to Social Integration and Article 57quinquies of the Organic Law of July 1976 on Public Centres for Social Welfare was published. This letter is fully compatible with the interpretation given by the Court. With regard to Mrs Lanjri's fifth and sixth questions, there is no legal possibility of refusing a person social assistance. Moreover, no legislative initiative will be taken on the basis of this judgment, given that it does not concern social assistance or the right to social integration. I've given you all the elements and figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Despite the fact that it was a long answer, there is still a lot of information missing. You're saying you can't have it because the OCMWFs are autonomous. You say that there is no legal initiative to refuse EU citizens social support. That's not right. This is clearly stated in our law. It is also stated in the European directive: 'an unreasonable burden on the social welfare system'. In that case, a country may refuse support. I do not have the article of that directive, but it literally says so. On this basis, the data of people who are European and receive benefits from the OMCW are also passed on to the DVZ. In recent years, 5 478 people have lost their residence permits. I don't quite understand, because you're saying you can't do this. It's possible. I have asked your predecessors several times. It's happening. Some OCMWFs use this possibility, but many OCMWFs are not sufficiently aware of it. The legal possibility exists. If someone places an unreasonable burden on social assistance, it can be ensured that the person loses his residence permit. In how many cases is there a cooperation between the Foreign Affairs Office and the OCMW's to pass that on and point out to the people? I think that some Europeans also want to know whether or not they are entitled to do so. In Antwerp it is said that if we support you now, we will do so. You are eligible in principle, but that means that you will lose your residence permit in a few months' time, because you are an unreasonable tax. I will ask you again, Minister, because it is not now possible for you to give me another reply. Your answer was not entirely correct, it does happen and it is in the law as well. What will you, as the competent minister, do for the OCMWFs to better inform them? I want more equality between the OCMWs, so that one OCMW is not much stricter than the other or applies things differently, without affecting the autonomy of the OCMWs.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u16	Mr Minister, I will first analyse your figures and your answers further. Indeed, it is not obvious, some things are not available, but others are. We can draw a distraction from that. I do have to confirm what Mr Lanjri said about the practice of the OCMWFs. I'm also chairman of an OCMW myself. One OCMW applies this in a completely different way from another, often partly out of ignorance among the heads of the social service in the relevant OCMW debt instruments. Given the impact of a number of statements, there has been some confusion as to exactly what needs to be done in the first three months. The POD has sent a letter, but I don't think it's penetrated everywhere. The subsequent follow-up, which must be done after three months, certainly does not happen with some OCMWFs. I will read your answers again and then see if there is anything else we need to do. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u17	I have noted all the elements of your reply. I'll analyze it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u18	We can obviously come back to the subject at another time, after everyone has checked their information.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u19	Madam President, I notice that my question is double-folded. At the beginning of December, a number of Flemish newspapers, including Het Belang van Limburg, published that nine people were infected with the dangerous trichinella parasite by eating infected boar meat. The risk of contamination by the trichinella parasite is very real and the Agency for Health and Care in Flanders shares that concern. The infected meat would come from France and the BFSA investigated the origin of the infected meat. Meanwhile, Christmas is approaching and a lot of consumers like to have game on the menu, but there is a lot of anxiety. Mr Minister, are there any other cases of infection with that parasite known outside Limburg? I have heard that there were infections in Antwerp, but there is still no real certainty about that. Is there a risk of contamination by eating Belgian boar meat? What measures did the BFSA take after the infection became known? Was it necessary, for example, to remove Spanish boar meat from the market?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u20	Madam President, Minister, my question is with Mrs Hufkens. The press has recently reported a problem encountered by customers from various restaurants who have consumed boar meat from Spain. In view of the article, the AFSCA has done an effective job, which has helped to avoid more poisoning. Minister, given that game is very popular during this holiday season, can you tell me whether the controls carried out by the AFSCA are being strengthened and whether other concrete measures have been taken to prevent a recurrence of the problem encountered and thus reassure consumers completely?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, following the Agency's notifications, AFSCA immediately took the necessary steps and examined the traceability of products. This led us to identify a wholesale trade, an intermediate trade, which had imported wild boar meat from Spain and delivered it to various restaurants. Thanks to the European Early Warning System (RASFF), Spain has been informed of this. On the basis of downstream and upstream traceability, contaminated lots were immediately removed from the market and samples required for analysis were taken. According to the data available to the BFSA through the Health and Health Agency, there are 14 cases of trichinellosis, 2 in Antwerp and 12 in Limburg. As far as the risk of contamination by eating Belgian boar meat is concerned, I can reassure you. Indeed, there are very strict controls on the presence of this parasite in pig meat, horse meat and raw wild boar meat. In Belgium, every wild boar, whether sold to an individual or to a game processing company, must be checked on trichines. In 2012, larvae were still found in some wild boars. Each affected carcass is immediately destroyed. These tests are also highly recommended for animals intended for hunters' own consumption. I don't know if there are hunters in the room... In Belgium, the most recent infection of a person with the trichinella parasite dates back to 1978. Then someone got infected in a family that grew wild boars themselves. We must therefore be careful. The AFSCA also recommends, to exclude all risks, that the meat be cooked well. There is therefore no reason to provide for additional control measures or to withdraw Belgian boar meat from the market. With regard to the suspect consignments of boar meat from Spain that have been withdrawn from the market, I can inform you that the 58 samples were all compliant. Even those we have withdrawn from the market have proved to be compliant. This suggests that we are dealing with an isolated case. The incident once again demonstrates the importance of good cooperation between the BFSA and Community health inspections so that contaminated food can be traced as quickly as possible and appropriate measures taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u22	Minister, I have kept three things from your answer. The following also applies to the case of avian flu. We must not panic about eating boar meat. The BFSA carries out very good checks, especially on the boar meat from here. So maybe we should promote regional products again. I would very much like to hear you say that a lot of checks are being carried out and that there is no danger, but in the meantime the demand for boar meat and game in Flanders has almost stopped. Restaurants and wholesale shops are affected by this. I hope that this positive communication will be highlighted a little more, because anyone who sells and markets boar meat is having a very difficult time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u23	I thank the minister for his answer because I believe that we can eat game during the holidays without too much risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u24	Mr President, Minister, I would like to start with a few figures. 15 per cent of the population is below the poverty line. In 2014, 200,000 people received support from food banks. This increase is worrying, as in 2012 we were only 117,000 people. This increase is therefore disturbing in terms of the number of beneficiaries. At European level, since 1987, a programme for the redistribution of food surpluses has been set up within the framework of the CAP. This programme was then challenged before the Court of Justice. In 2011, an attempt was made to find a solution and it was transferred to the European Social Fund and more through the CAP, knowing that there must be an amount for which the States must intervene in addition to what Europe had decided. The European programme for Belgium amounts to EUR 10 million, to which the national intervention of EUR 1.5 million was to be added. Has this obligation been transferred to Belgium? Has it been implemented as a support to food banks? If not, why not? Is that the amount that has been implemented? Has European aid been received? As a local agent, you certainly know the difficulties that food banks are facing more and more. These difficulties result not only from the increase in the number of beneficiaries but also from the fact that there is less support than before. They must increasingly rely on the private help of every citizen. I would have liked you to clarify to me what amounts Belgium and Europe are facing and whether these amounts have been received and whether they are being implemented within the framework of the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the operational programme drawn up under the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived (EFAD) was submitted to the European Commission on 11 September 2014 as required by Regulation 223/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2014 on the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived. Last week we received the approval of the European Commission on the text. However, we have not waited until now to implement measures to ensure the continuity of food aid. As you know, and as you have rightly pointed out, the old food programme run in Belgium by the Belgian Bureau d'intervention et de restitution belge (BIRB) ended on 31 December 2013. As of that date, no decision had been taken on the settlement of the new fund or on its organisation in Belgium. For 2014, BIRB and SPP Social Integration, following a decision by the Permanent Working Group on Combating Poverty of the Interministerial Conference "Integration into Society", worked closely together to ensure a good transition and ensure continuity between the old programme and the new fund. The call for markets to purchase food for 2014 to ensure continuity of aid was launched in March 2014, amounting to EUR 11,871,000. Distributions to food banks and CPAS began at the end of July and are currently ending. To answer your second question, Belgium has indeed received European support. For our country, an amount of €73,821,504 is foreseen for the FEAD for the whole period 2014-2020. Belgium must add at least 15% of co-financing to this amount. As indicated, the 2014 call for contracts was launched for an amount – I would remind you – of €1,871,000. This budget consists of EUR 9 433 000 of European resources and EUR 2 438 000 of Belgian co-financing, i.e. more than 15%. When the market call was launched in March 2014, the Council of Ministers decided to increase the part of Belgian co-financing to ensure continuity at budgetary level. Federal intervention has been put in place. It is, as I said, 2 438 000 euros. A similar policy will be pursued for the years 2015 to 2020. In 2015, federal intervention is estimated at this stage to be €2,371,000. For your information, in the FEAD budget, there is no specific amount allocated to food banks. The system remains the same as in previous years. The administration in charge, namely the Social Integration PPS, buys food through a market call and these foodstuffs are then made available to food banks and their partner organisations. CPAS can also order these commodities.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u26	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. What was important to me was the federal intervention and you assure me that things are in order for 2014 and 2015. I therefore call on the government to continue to support beyond the 15% imposed by Europe. As we all know, it is extremely difficult for food banks to cope with the growing demand of people in difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u27	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I tabled this question a while ago on the occasion of the National Women's Day on 11 November and the theme put forward by the VOK, namely poverty among women. In the meantime, I believe that my question has not lost its topicality. We note that women will be hit harder than men by this government's austerity. We have already discussed this during the discussion of the government statement. On the occasion of the National Women's Day and the subject of the VOK mentioned earlier, I would like to raise this issue once again. The national action of the VOK on 11 November revealed some very painful points in the government declaration. It is the case that several studies show that women find poverty easier than men. Think of the number of single-parent families with children, under which many more mothers than fathers are found. We know that single-parent families are at extra risk of poverty. Women also depend much more on their husbands' wages than vice versa. The majority of wage-earners are also women. Women are therefore clearly in a more vulnerable position, which means that a number of measures, which the government is working on, are at first sight equal for both sexes, but they are not. I would like to give you some examples. The income guarantee of the RVA in the case of involuntary part-time work is reduced and halved after two years. Women are the biggest victims of this, as nearly 80% of the victims will be women. The minimum pension will be raised above the poverty line, you promise, but the conditions for obtaining it in the event of an incomplete career will then intertwine. Again, women are the victims in particular, because they are more likely to work part-time or have to interrupt their careers. I have not yet mentioned the early retirement which, on the basis of the current figures, will also be much less applicable to women than to men. I have a number of questions in this regard. The topicality of the National Women's Day has been behind us for some time, but it is a subject that unfortunately always remains topical. There is a very great inequality in the area of poverty. You said at the time that you would knock on the table for this problem. At the same time, you said that decisions could not be reduced. Then what will you be knocking on the table about? What can change with regard to the issues raised by the women's movement? The government statement also states that the gender dimension will be integrated into each policy area. Each measure will therefore assess the impact on both sexes. I very much want to believe that and I also want to believe that it is a matter that the government means. Nevertheless, I wonder what measures will be taken in this area to take the gender dimension into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u28	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, as stated in my general policy paper, I will focus, among other things, on the following priorities. Firstly, with regard to the labour market, priorities are the fight against the pay gap, the fight against both vertical and horizontal segregation of the labour market, reconciliation of work and private life, the fight against pregnancy discrimination and the support of best practices to promote women's access to management and management positions. Secondly, with regard to gender-based violence, the priorities are the follow-up to the Istanbul Convention, the preparation of a new national action plan to combat partner violence and intra-family violence, with particular attention to sexual violence, genital mutilation, forced marriages and honor-related violence. At international level, I also mentioned the follow-up to the work on Beijing+20, as well as the follow-up to the UN Security Council's well-known Resolution 1325 and the follow-up to other international commitments. As regards gender mainstreaming, it is my intention, in my capacity as Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, to implement the gender mainstreaming law of 12 January 2007. The purpose of this law is to monitor the application of the resolutions of the World Conference on Women, which took place in Beijing in September 1995, and to integrate the gender dimension into the federal policies as a whole. To achieve this, I will proceed as soon as possible to the creation of a new inter-departmental coordination group on gender mainstreaming. That group, which will be composed of representatives of the policy cells of all members of the government and of all FODs and PODs, including the cells responsible for the themes raised in the question, has the task of ensuring the implementation of the gender mainstreaming law. The preparation of a new federal gender mainstreaming plan for the current legislature by that interdepartmental coordination group will be a first moment in practical implementation of the gender mainstreaming law. Due to the huge number of policy initiatives during the legislature and the fact that the concrete application of gender mainstreaming is still quite new, all government members will include in the plan a selection of at least those policies that will be the subject of particular attention on gender integration. I will also, in cooperation with the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, encourage my fellow Members to choose in this selection those policies which have a strong gender dimension and can therefore have a clear impact on the different situations of women and men. I will also strive to give priority to policies on planned socio-economic reforms in accordance with the government agreement. I myself will do so within my other powers. Furthermore, I will closely monitor the implementation of this plan and support my fellow Members in order to achieve a concrete integration of the gender dimension into the policies chosen. In addition, since 1 January 2014 and following the Law of 15 December 2013 laying down various provisions on administrative simplification, all preliminary draft laws and draft royal decrees requiring the intervention of the Council of Ministers should undergo a regulatory impact analysis, the third part of which is devoted to equality between women and men. Preliminary draft laws and draft royal decrees and ministerial decrees on the themes cited in the question will also have to be subject to this gender test so that it can be assessed whether the proposals can have a different impact on the situation of men and women.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u29	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, these are very nice intentions, as I have already said. You know I'm very much behind that, and I'm going to follow it up closely. I must say, however, that I did not receive a specific answer to what I said. You say that gender mainstreaming will also be taken into account on these issues, and we will follow that closely. However, I am concerned when I sometimes hear that certain agreements made at the beginning of this legislature can no longer be reduced. Anyway, the future will tell. In any case, I would like to thank you for your answer. I would like to say one more thing that does not directly relate to this question. I asked your colleague from the Justice Department about the Istanbul agreement and its state of play. It is really very important that we move very quickly in this area, because we can send experts. The Minister of Justice has replied that he will do so with you. I would like to ask you once again to be behind this, that would be very nice.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u30	Mrs Jiroflée, I am certainly taking this with me, because you are right that this must be ratified very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u31	Madam President, Secretary of State, the fight against poverty is clearly a priority of our new federal government, contrary to what some may think. In the policy statement, several chapters are devoted to this. In addition to actions for social beneficiaries, poverty among children and single-parent families is also mentioned. According to KUL, the risk of poverty among the latter is 22 per cent, if they receive maintenance, and 40 per cent if they do not. In response to these findings, the government has decided to develop a more objective and transparent method of calculating support payments. Today, the calculation of the amount of maintenance depends on the judge, who takes into account various criteria. There is therefore no universal method, and the amounts may vary from judge to judge, from family to family. A single method will therefore make it possible to be more fair to people who find themselves in a single parent situation following separation or divorce. Madam Secretary of State, how are you going to define the method of calculating maintenance payments? Are you going to set up a commission as discussed in 2010 or any other think tank on the subject? Can you already tell us more about the calculation method you want to implement? Which types of fees will necessarily be included? More generally, what is your strategy to combat the poverty of single-parent families, families after divorce and children?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the development of a new method of calculating maintenance, this action will be further developed and its content supported when developing the measures of the new Federal Plan for Combating Poverty, in bilateral consultation with the Ministers of Justice and Finance. As announced in the Belgian Monitor of 17 March 2014, the Commission des contributions alimentaires will be set up. In this context, I am already considering the possibility of raising the judges' awareness of recent studies on reference budgets as a preferred means of standardizing the calculation of maintenance and thus establishing a fairer system for families. To answer your last question, I would like to say that the fight against poverty is at the heart of my concerns, in particular the poverty that affects families, children and individuals in a single-parent household. As Secretary of State for Poverty Alleviation, I would like to draw up a third Federal Plan for Combating Poverty and I would ask each competent minister to propose and implement sufficiently targeted, specific and structural measures within his mandate in order to implement and monitor the fight against poverty. This third federal action plan is based on a broad vision of poverty. It will pay special attention to the fight against child poverty, particularly among lone parents, the poverty of immigrants and long-term patients. I intend to give a broader meaning to the term child poverty. Indeed, it is whole families who live in poverty: to get children out of it, we must help the whole family. As a follow-up to the first National Plan to Combat Child Poverty, a second plan to combat child poverty will be developed in consultation with federated entities and local authorities. The main task of the Permanent Working Group on Poverty in the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Integration into Society will be to monitor the implementation of the Second National Plan to Combat Child Poverty. I will present the results of the first monitoring of the implementation of the plan to the working group. The National Plan to Combat Child Poverty will be based on a rights-based approach. The plan will once again be based on the three pillars and will be articulated by analogy with the European Recommendation Investing in Children to break the vicious circle of inequality around three fundamental policy areas to combat child poverty and promote their well-being: access to adequate resources, access to quality services and opportunities, and the participation of children. Given the multidimensional nature of child poverty, I will invest in coordination and communication with all key actors. By analogy with the European poverty target, I will define a particular goal for child poverty. In order to monitor this and the various aspects of child poverty, I will develop a monitoring instrument based on statistical indicators and specific impact analyses. I would like to comment in particular on one of the actions contained in the National Plan to Combat Child Poverty, adopted in 2013. The call for projects "Children first: local platforms for dialogue for the prevention and detection of child poverty" is therefore intended to encourage CPAS and associations to combat child poverty proactively and to promote the well-being of children in order to get these children and their families out of the cycle of transgenerational poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u33	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your complete answer. I think we're really on the same wavelength. The problem of child poverty must be considered as a whole, as you have said, taking into account the environment and the family. I think it's about pulling up, finding solutions. Single-parent families, as you have also said, need special attention. There's more and more. I gave you the numbers sometimes: 22% when they have alimony; 40% when there is no alimony. The calculation of this support is very important. I realize that you did not really answer the question of calculation, but we are still very early in the legislature. I'll let you work first. I believe that we will be able to return in the course of 2015, with perhaps some objectives already. It's an area I care about. The mayors – you mentioned the local authorities – are faced with this problem of single-parent families on a daily basis. Thank you and I wish you well so that we can move forward on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u34	I cannot resist inviting you to read the work that took place when we passed the law on the objectivation of the calculation of maintenance claims and to discover the arguments that have been defended by your parliamentary colleagues in the Committee on Justice to refuse that there should be a single method used by the various judges. That is why the law creates this commission that will have to think about it. The fight will also have to take place in political families if we are to move forward on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u35	As Mr Wouter Raskin was absent and not excused, his question No 579 was deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u36	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, on November 7, the newspaper De Morgen revealed that changes could be made to the law of May 10, 2007 on transsexuality so that it would be consistent with the principles of Yogyakarta. Anyone who wishes to change their sex officially is, for the time being, required to undergo hormonal treatment, psychiatric consultations and irreversible sterilization. Madam Secretary of State, the government agreement states that the law of 10 May 2007 on transsexuality will be adapted to international human rights obligations. Belgian legislation limits the possibilities for official gender change by imposing particularly strict medical criteria. Can you already give us the outline of these adaptations? Are you considering ending sterilization and psychiatrization, which are claims of long-standing field associations? Do you intend to take further steps in the context of administrative simplification for transsexuals, particularly in terms of identity and travel documents? Transsexuals are often victims of many forms of discrimination, particularly in relation to work or housing. Both verbal and physical violence are also very common. The government emphasizes the fight against all forms of discrimination and respect for others and their choices of life. What measures are you planning to take to better combat discrimination against transsexual persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u37	Mr Flahaux, the law of 10 May 2007 lays down strict conditions concerning the official change of sex. The person concerned must have the intimate, permanent and irreversible conviction that he wants to belong to the other kind of person than that stipulated in his birth certificate, that he has undergone an adaptation which has made him conform to the gender to which he is convinced to belong if it is medically feasible and justified and, finally, that he is no longer able to reproduce, in accordance with the gender which was once his own. In view of these strict conditions, this law is only useful to some of the transsexuals. It does not permit the recording of gender changes to anyone who does not wish to undergo heavy medical procedures. Moreover, according to Yogyakarta's principles, it is in contradiction with human rights. By imposing medical intervention as a precondition for registering the official change of sex, including irreversible sterilization, Belgian law violates the physical integrity of the person and his right to be recognized for his or her sexual identity. As defined in the Government Agreement, the Law of 10 May 2007 on Transsexuality will be adapted in the light of international human rights obligations and Yogyakarta principles. In this regard, I would like to consult with human rights experts, as well as with transsexuals and their associations. I will take into account their aspirations regarding demedicalization and depsychiatrization, the current legislation on the abolition of the obligation to sterilise. To answer your second question, from a recent phase of consultations, I will also examine administrative aspects, such as the adaptation of the diploma, identity documents and birth certificate. However, the adaptation of the diploma falls within the competence of the Communities. Since 1 September 2012, transsexuals in Flanders have been able to adapt their diploma to their new name. The French Community still has no official decree or structural solution for the replacement of diplomas in the event of a change of name. I will draw the attention of the French Community to this point when the new inter-federal action plan against violence and homophobic and transphobic discrimination is in place. As long as the identity card of transsexuals is not adapted, they encounter problems in the exercise of their civil rights, such as voting and customs controls. They are also obliged to declare their transsexuality each time. A solution must also be found for the large number of transsexuals who have never opted for transsexual surgery and/or the complete transformation of their body by hormonal treatment or surgery. In the meantime, several transgender institutes have solved this problem by developing a passport that can be used if the physics no longer corresponds to the identity card data. Although it has no legal value, this passport is only designed as a medium to inform the identity of the holder. This may be a situation where the new identity of the person causes confusion, such as police or customs checks, the removal of a parcel from the post office, etc. This passport is certainly an appropriate means when the photo of the identity card is very different from the new appearance of the person. In the event of a gender change, the birth certificate is not adapted, except by adding a change to the margin. When requesting a copy of the birth certificate, the change of sex is therefore visible to any person to whom the copy of the act is submitted. In this context, during the negotiations for the new inter-federal action plan, I really want to bring forward the discussion on the creation of an official transgender passport status and the adoption of identity and/or administrative documents, such as a birth certificate or a diploma. If other legal gaps or problematic legal provisions arise in these consultations, I will take the necessary steps to address them. As stated in my policy note, I intend to continue, together with other members of the government, the development of a zero-tolerance policy against all forms of violence, including homophobic and transphobic violence, as well as discrimination against homosexuals and transsexuals. To this end, in collaboration with my colleagues in the relevant ministers, the Institute and the Centre for Equal Opportunities, I will work on a new action plan against homophobic and transphobic violence and discrimination. The network of experts, which was established in the context of the evaluation of the action plan against violence, submitted several concrete recommendations, which were compiled by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and the Centre for Equal Opportunities. This note will soon be given to me and will be an important source for the negotiations of the new inter-federal action plan. The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men registers several dozen complaints each year, of which 9% concern discrimination against transsexuals – unfortunately –; 16% of complaints come from transsexuals, people who have not – or have not – expressed themselves as transsexuals, their environment or associations defending their interests. They concern aspects of work, insurance, violence and origin. With regard to the fight against discrimination and violence, I propose that the next inter-federal action plan focus on the extension of Circular COL 13 on identity and transgender expression, as well as the further concrete implementation of COL 13. As far as the workplace is concerned, I also propose that the first step be to introduce the new "harassment" law, explicitly incorporating the protection of transsexuals. Finally, I am convinced that continuous efforts must be made to improve the assistance, awareness and information of the professionals and target groups concerned: lawyers, employers, public officials, labour inspectors, doctors, in close cooperation with the associations concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u38	I am very pleased with your answer, Madam Secretary of State. I had no doubt: since you are a doctor, I know that you are particularly sensitive to this problem. In fact, I think we now have a new colleague senator who is transgender, and gantoise. Belgium is at the forefront with regard to legislation and attitudes towards homosexuals, although, alas, abuses and other unacceptable things are still taking place. I note positively your willingness to act in the same way in the problem of transsexuals. I will follow this carefully, but I feel that you have the will to move forward and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u39	Madam Secretary of State, I will ask my question even though a number of answers have already been given to my colleague. At the moment, the trial of the four accused for the murder of Ihsane Jarfi is taking place in the assize court of Liège. The facts took place in April 2012 in Liège. An aggravating circumstance of homophobic crime was retained in the indictment. The young man's father also created a foundation to combat all forms of discrimination and violence, particularly those motivated by homophobia. Their main fight is therefore to combat intolerance and the violation of the fundamental principle of equality between human beings. They promote tools and resources for victims and support awareness campaigns. In the government agreement, we can read: "During this legislature, the government will ensure that it continues to develop a zero-tolerance policy against all forms of violence, including gender-based violence, sexual violence, homophobia and transphobia, as well as domestic violence. Existing action plans will be maintained and updated." Madam Secretary of State, what concrete and new measures are envisaged to implement a zero-tolerance policy on homophobic and transphobic violence? How do you intend to increase the awareness and training of judges and police officers in the detection and management of such violence? How many incidents of homophobic violence have been recorded in recent years? How do you explain the discrepancy between the number of complaints registered and the reality that appears to be experienced by LGBT people? Finally, can you tell us when the recommendations of the network of experts created as part of the evaluation of action plans to combat homophobic and transphobic violence can be known?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u40	Madam Secretary of State, you have already answered some of Mrs Fénandez Fernandez's questions in response to Mr Flahaux's question. You don't have to repeat everything. I propose that you simply give any additional information.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u41	Madam President, dear colleague, Mr Flahaux, I do not have the exact figures. This question is, however, important. I will not fail to do any research in order to be able to answer you. And as I said in my policy note, this is a very important problem. In my opinion, those concerned are afraid. This is the case for all forms of violence, including sexual violence against women. In this matter, the threshold, going to the police is something very important. It is for this reason that I am trying to understand why those concerned do not file complaints. I cannot answer that question to date. But I intend to examine this problem with the police in an attempt to find out why victims of homophobic, transsexual, etc. violence. do not file a complaint. This is something that I really care about and that needs to be addressed as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic038x.u42	I will allow myself to return to the legislature later with questions. You responded to my colleague that the recommendations of the network of experts will soon come to you. I obviously wish to know them. Perhaps I will come back at that time with a question and possibly questions about the figures.
