ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we begin the sitting. I was appointed chairman of your committee. I have a certain experience of this: between 1985 and 1995 I was part of this committee. At that time, the Finance and Budget Committee was chaired by Charles-Ferdinand Nothomb. Mark Eyskens was then Minister of Finance and Guy Verhofstadt Minister of Budget. We'll talk about the distant past. I am glad to be the chairman of this committee for the next five years. It was asked to convene this committee for an exchange of views with the Minister of Finance on two issues, in particular the discussion on ARCO and the guarantee scheme and on BNP Paribas. It is an exchange of views, so it is not an interplay or a question of explanation. It's also about a government in current cases. This means that we should not make the process of the previous governments. That's what the voter did. Nor should we anticipate a future government. This government is resigning and is therefore unable to make decisions on important dossiers. This is an exchange of views with the Minister of Finance on two topics, ARCO and BNP Paribas, which have been making news in recent weeks. This is therefore neither an inquiry nor an oral question. We must also take into account the fact that the government is in day-to-day business. We are not going to try the resigning government or anticipate decisions to be taken by a future government. In this context, I propose that the Minister give a brief account of these two dossiers, the ARCO guarantee scheme and the events at BNP Paribas. You have been able to follow that in the current situation. The Minister was asked to explain this first. We shall then give the floor to the sitting. Each group is free to intervene, but I would like to divide the debate into two themes. We'd start with BNP Paribas. Everyone can express their reservations about this and I suggest that the Minister reply first. In the second part we can deal with the ARCO guarantee scheme. It is an exchange of views, in the context of a government in current affairs. That creates a number of limitations. However, it is important that this committee should be able to exercise control, even in a period of current affairs, and to hold the Minister to account for any statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u2	Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate you warmly on your appointment as chairman of the committee. In my view, the method you are proposing is interesting, but I think it would also be logical for the Minister's explanation to be divided by topic and that after these explanations the questions should follow. I acknowledge a number of things that you have pointed out during your introduction, but I would like to emphasise a few things. You say that this is an exchange of views, and you strongly emphasise the non-binding nature of this exercise. I believe that Parliament should be able to ask questions during the current period. Since the Minister has also made several statements in the press, I believe that there should be answers to the various questions, especially during this period of current affairs. I would not like this to be a misunderstanding at the start of our work in this committee. If we can find each other in that respect, I think we can start a fascinating meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u3	If everyone agrees, I will give the floor to the Minister. I propose that we follow Mr Calvo's suggestion and that the Minister first explain the BNP Paribas dossier, after which a number of questions can be asked. The ARCO dossier can then be dealt with in a second explanatory statement. Both issues can also be discussed together, although it seems appropriate to separate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u4	Mr President, I am not against separating the two issues from each other. However, I do know ourselves somewhat. It may not even be possible for us to come to the second subject, but I would prefer to deal with the whole issue today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u5	If the Minister has the floor, he is free to say what he has to say. And you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech and the answers I will give you are subject to the following limitations. The President has already pointed out the first limitation. I'm resigning. It is unusual for someone in my situation to express their own willingness to speak to the committee. My political responsibility and my ability to connect a government must be considered in the light of current cases. A second limitation concerns the fact that the State is a shareholder in BNP Paribas and holds a stake of more than 10% in the said group, which is the eleventh bank in the world. I must therefore act as a shareholder and as a government shareholder, which brings with it limitations. I have the OECD corporate governance code for states participating in companies as a guiding principle, and I also have to take into account the fact that BNP Paribas is listed on the stock exchange and that the value of the share, which is also our share, can fluctuate because of our attitude. Thirdly, there are federal government negotiations underway. In this context, problems I shall raise could come to the table. It cannot be the intention to hypothesize these negotiations by statements I would make today. So you will forgive me for the caution I will observe in the light of the three previous points. The current discussion is for BNP Paribas, which is the first subject, about finance and ethics, usually a difficult relationship for the individual and also for the state. I myself indicated that I was available to Parliament for an exchange of views on the sanction imposed on BNP Paribas. I did this because I too am indignant about the seriousness and nature of the practices that have been revealed in the file, and because I wanted to understand with BNP and want to understand with you how things could have happened. On the basis of numerous readings, on the basis of a conversation I had this week with the CEO of BNP Paribas in the presence of his management as well as the President and CEO of the Federal Société de Participations et d'Investissement (SFPI), and on the basis of interviews with the Belgian directors of the bank, I can tell you the following, subject to a poor understanding on my part of a number of elements which have been exclusively reported to me orally. BNP is one of the world's leaders in dollar transactions and settlements. Thus, every day, no less than $300 billion is offset by BNP's New York office. In early 2006, BNP became aware of the United States court decision ABN AMRO on the basis of which it was clear that the US ban on dollar transactions involving embargoed countries was also applicable if the banks between which these dollar transfers were made were located outside the United States. A transfer of dollars between a Swiss bank and a Cuban bank, for example, should nevertheless be compensated in the United States by the clearing house, because it is dollars. For that reason alone, because of the attraction principle alone that there is a settlement in America, the US Justice has, since the decision on ABN AMRO at the end of 2005, been subject to the embargo-country ban on every dollar transaction in the world. Until then, advice from leading US law firms had indicated the opposite, in particular that the mere fact that American law had to be cleared was not sufficient to make US law applicable. That was the situation at the beginning of 2006. It took BNP one and a half years, from the beginning of 2006 to the middle of 2007, to stop its prohibited transactions under a new interpretation of US law. It took 18 months, even if it had already decided in principle. It's that slowness that's gonna turn out deadly. The transactions all concerned the financing of petroleum exploitation, imports and exports: as far as Iran and Sudan are concerned, of course, exports in Cuba, petroleum imports. Partly at the United States' renewed pressure, it came to a total halt in the middle of 2007, both in Cuba and Iran and Sudan. Let me focus on things right away. After mid-2007, no dollar transactions were carried out in Sudan. There were also no more euro transactions in Sudan involving GNP. The reason why there are prohibited dollar transactions in Iran until 2012 and in Cuba until 2010 is the following. With regard to Iran, one later transaction was established after mid-2007, which, according to the US authorities, was fraudulent and would have wanted to circumvent the ban, while the competent BNP people thought it was a transaction in another country, which was not Iran and was not under embargo. As an embargo country, Cuba is obviously less sensitive than the other countries. That embargo has been in place since 1963. With regard to Cuba, after mid-2007 one revolving credit could not be fully converted from prohibited dollars to admitted euro debt securities. That went wrong, and rather than taking his loss on that credit, BNP has persevered in dollars and that results in an additional fine for Cuba. The fine that GDP received, which amounts to around USD 9 billion, can be split up approximately as follows. Firstly, because the bank reacted too slowly after the reported ABN AMRO decision at the end of 2005, which is very much to the detriment of the US Justice because the bank was one of the world's market leaders for that part, BNP has to pay one dollar penalty for every dollar that was subject to prohibited transactions in Sudan for 18 months between the beginning of 2006 and mid-2007. That's about $6.5 billion. A dollar for a dollar. Secondly, Iran was the subject of a so-called u-turn in 2008. In other words, all prohibited transactions could be reversed without penalty in 2008. Only the later transaction reported, which I just told you the U.S. Justice claimed to be fraudulent and which BNP thought to be related to a non-embargo country, was charged and fined with a fine of $ 580 million. Thirdly, the revolving credit for Cuba, which was held in dollars and grew constantly, is subject to a fine of 1.7 billion dollars. All of this together amounts to about $9 billion. It's a little less, but symbols also have their importance. That is the case with the statement of facts as I understand them, subject to not having understood everything after reading and listening. Other banks have committed similar offences. ABN AMRO and ING have already been convicted. Deutsche Bank and Société Générale are still being prosecuted. Practically all major European banks are involved. It is rather stingy to note that the European legislator does not, until further notice, provide for any sanction for such acts in Europe. This US policy of prosecution is part of a repressive approach to banks by the US justice system, which also punishes heavily other acts than transactions in dollars, which are prohibited with countries under embargo. The US banks are also not spared. This is once again a question of toxic mortgages like recently the Citi for more than 7 billion dollars or it can be tax fraud, as again recently the Credit Suisse for 2.6 billion. In less than three years, sanctions for a total of more than 100 billion have been imposed and it can be expected that this amount will soon be largely exceeded. JP Morgan, for example, had to spend more than $13 billion. The severity of the US justice system has its origin, among other things, in the HSBC case, which received a penalty of 2 billion for money laundering of Mexican drugs without having to plead guilty. In the face of Congress' great incomprehension with this case, a new judicial policy has been pursued in which sanctions are significantly increased and it has become more difficult to reach an amicable settlement without pleading guilty. On the European continent, strict American policy has repeatedly raised concerns among regulators. I would like to point out that all European attention has almost exclusively been monopolized in the past six months on the consequences of the heavy US sanctions for the soundness of our banking system, both by politicians and by finance professionals and observers. There were serious concerns, notably at the ECB and also in other central banks about the destabilization of the financial system. At BNP, the look back investigation procedure was initiated by the US courts at the end of 2009 and the investigation was completed in October 2013. More than 100 million data were transmitted by the bank to the courts. On 14 February, BNP decided to set aside a provision of $1.1 billion. In the following months, the US financial press reported potential fines ranging from $2 billion to $16 billion. Finally, on 30 June, we reached an amount of almost $9 billion. BNP should set an example as one of the world's leaders in the area of dollar transactions has certainly played a role in determining this amount. In addition, BNP had to separate management staff who had been involved either because they had breached the law or because they had official authority over those who had violated the law. Due to a lack of transparency in SWIFT transactions of up to $190 billion, the Department of Financial Services also imposed a ban on BNP itself, in 2015, in the clearing of dollar transactions related only to convenience financing, such as oil, gas and energy in general. BNP will therefore have to use another bank for one year, namely 2015, for these transactions alone in dollars. In its communiqué of 30 June last year, GNP expressed its deep regret at the mistakes and shortcomings of the past. The press release did not say that at the time of the facts there was no European or French embargo against the countries concerned, nor less that US law was applied strictly and almost extraterritorially. BNP therefore does not minimize the facts. As a reputable market leader, the bank realized that it should never have 18 months to stop its prohibited transactions until mid-2007. The bank's excellent reputation in this area did not appear to have an extension in the field. In my letter to management, I expressed my greatest concern about the nature and seriousness of the facts that I have been able to hear in the documents of the US Justice Department. In response to this concern, the CEO of BNP Paribas stressed during our discussion earlier this week that it was about the financing of petroleum exploitation and exports in Sudan, and that there was no connection to the civil war or to the humanitarian tragedy in Darfur or to the terrorism of Al-Qaeda. Again, neither in Sudan nor in Iran were the prohibited dollar transactions continued in euros. I took note of this. Nevertheless, I remain very disappointed that a bank with such a good reputation has committed gross errors and reacted far too slowly, especially when it comes to facts of this nature and seriousness, in relation to countries that have violent conflicts and gross violations of human rights. The Belgian state eventually became a shareholder of BNP Paribas, after numerous legal events, only in the spring of 2009, after BNP ended the transactions in forbidden dollars in mid-2007 and before the US courts began its major investigation at the end of 2009. The State initially appointed two observers, who would become administrators in 2010. In a French listed company, which is not controlled, more than half of the directors must be independent. If a director has been appointed by a shareholder holding less than 10%, he or she is, under French law, independent. For larger holdings, such as ours – Belgium owns 10.3 % of BNP – the board of directors can see the independence of the administrator concerned if the appointing committee considers that there is no conflict of interest in its head. The two Belgian directors were therefore considered independent within the meaning of French law by the board, on the positive opinion of the appointing committee, i.e. independent of the executive management of the company. All directors of a company, whether independent or not, must also exercise their mandate in the interests of the company and not in the interests of a shareholder or in the interests of management. The Belgian directors at BNP Paribas regularly report to the FPIM which manages the participation of the Belgian State by delegation, subject to the rules of secrecy imposed by French law. The French corporate governance code for listed companies speaks of professional secrecy in criminal matters for the directors. The internal rules of GNP refer to strict discretion. In any case, a driver, whether independent or not, cannot communicate insider information or privileged information to the shareholder he actually represents. The forbidden communication alone is a crime, an abuse of insider trading. A driver may, however, communicate insider information to a person who has been held liable for professional secrecy such as a lawyer. A driver can also share prior knowledge in the context of his profession, for example with a journalist under embargo the evening before that insider knowledge is made public, so that the next day at fair time she is no longer foreknowledge. In that professional context in which the driver may share insider dealing in the course of his profession, I myself received a call from the CEO of BNP Paribas on the eve of a day on which BNP made periodic information or occasional insider dealing public, usually to inform me of this earlier, just before, in the evening after fair time. The CFO or chief financial officer of BNP Paribas always did the same with regard to the FPIM. The question whether a discussion with a shareholder on insider dealing could not apply to the permitted exception of notices in the context of the driver's profession is, of course, answered positively if it occurs the night before, in particular before the insider dealing is made public. It is almost always answered negatively by the lawyers when the foreknowledge is shared at an earlier time, for obvious reasons. It was written, for example, that I should have sold BNP instead of Fortis. If my directors had informed me in advance of the American issue, the State would not even have been able to sell BNP, even if it had wanted to, because the State would have had inside information. On 16 December 2013 and on 17 March 2014, our directors shared their concerns about the US GNP procedure in general but clear terms with the FPIM. They did so in response to the public information BNP provided on that procedure in its 2013 annual report. I myself received a phone call from the CEO about the $1.1 billion commission on February 14th and a similar phone call about the final fine on the evening of June 30th. The Governing Board was first informed of the US procedure in very general terms at the end of 2012, as evidenced by the 2013 Annual Report. This was also reported to the FPIM by our directors in early 2013. It is certain that a better flow of communication between management, our directors, the FPIM and the government could not have prevented the bad facts themselves. The facts are too old for that. They're dating from mid-2007 at the latest. Similarly, as regards the legal settlement of the dispute, there is no indication that a greater involvement of the shareholder, which is the Belgian State, could have made a difference. Otherwise, it is the remedy where the Belgian directors on their own initiative, but of course also encouraged by the State, will weigh heavily in the audit committee and in the board of directors. On my direction a new contact is planned with the Belgian directors, the CEO of BNP and the FPIM in the course of September. I would recommend my successful successor to keep that agreement and to have this kind of plenary consultation every six months from now on. I do not want to make it appear that there has been too little consultation in recent years, but due to the successive financial crises of 2008 and 2011, due to the sale of Fortis and the US fine, there may have been too little attention to the recurrent issues which might have contributed to a very long-term distortion. In addition to a clear admission of guilt, BNP has also promised a comprehensive remedial plan to be discussed with the US justice system, as well as with the audit committee and the employees' bodies. It is a programme of more than EUR 200 million. In addition to the consideration of centralizing compliance functions and legal functions on a fully vertical basis, the following actions are also planned: - the creation of a new US Dollar Payment & Clearing business branch, in order to centralize all of the Group's transactions in USD via the New York subsidiary. This centralisation of transactions also facilitates their control; - the installation of a new compliance function at the group level, called Group Financial Security, which will be partially established in New York and will be fully responsible for financial matters in the United States. In this way, overall compliance with US embargo rules will be facilitated; - the substantial addition of resources and staff for the bank's compliance services; - strengthening the internal audit process within the bank by increasing cross-cutting information; - new rules to make the customer review mandatory on a regular basis, including annual reviews of high-risk customers. I decide. The facts are serious, in terms of size and nature. They cannot be repeated and everything must be done to prevent a repetition. BNP has made extensive excuses and is working very hard to regain the confidence it has lost. Anyone who confesses to guilt, pays and recovers is worth another chance. Secondly, the transfer of information to an important shareholder, which is also part of an extremely heavy plea bargaining procedure, which we Europeans can hardly imagine, is a particularly sensitive issue and is, according to many, neither more nor less than a contradictio in terminis. Thirdly, BNP acknowledges that, in view of the good relations between our countries and between their responsibilities and, above all, in view of the special nature of the shareholder Belgium, in the light of the international facts committed and despite being strictly legally impossible to say, it would have been more appropriate if BNP could have allowed those responsible in Belgium to do so, I cannot translate that word into French, but it is a very nice word, with more care and faster what the nature and severity of the ethical and politically sensitive facts were, which were the basis of the sanction. Fourthly, BNP's failure in this regard was reinforced by the US judicial press release, which was not submitted to BNP in advance, and which presents the Sudanese facts in a different light than BNP's in the statement of facts it signed. It could therefore hardly result in anything other than a breach of trust between BNP and the State, as I clearly pointed out in my letter of 9 July to the CEO, Mr Bonnafé. This was widely discussed, with mutual understanding, with BNP's top management during the interview that took place on Tuesday 15 July. Fifthly, I do not regret that the Belgian State sold Fortis in 2013 and not BNP. We retain our influence on the Belgian daughter indirectly and sold Fortis with added value, which we could not and will not have achieved with BNP in the first place. Moreover, we had a solid opinion that the onside potential of GNP was much more significant than that of Fortis. BNP remains, despite what happened, a very good bank. She recognizes her mistakes, apologizes and remedies them. Its strength, liquidity and profitability have not been threatened at all and are not. It therefore remains a good sustainable investment for the Belgian State, both in the light of the dividend that can be expected for the next few years and in the light of the potential value of the share. In current business, much less than at another time, it is not appropriate to state in the public place the shareholder's possible intentions regarding a possible sale. We have nothing to gain from it as a shareholder. I repeat what I have always said about our bank holdings in general. We privatized our banks in the 1990s. Our positions acquired during the crisis were not the result of a deliberate policy, but of absolute necessity. Until further notice, as a state, we no longer have a banker's vocation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with your permission, I now come to the issue of ARCO. The guarantee scheme of 2008 and 2011 guarantees the deposit of natural persons in a recognised financial cooperative company. The cooperative companies concerned may join the guarantee scheme on a voluntary basis, subject to payment of an accession fee and an annual contribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u7	Mr President, can we split the two debates? The minister has just explained some interesting things about BNP Paribas.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u8	The minister is free to speak and talk about what he wants. It is possible to split the two, but that means that we will have two debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u9	Thus, we do not mix two important dossiers that have very different springs. I, for my part, have questions about these two files. I would like to be able, after the Minister's intervention on BNP Paribas, to share my thoughts and questions and to hear the Minister on this subject before proceeding to ARCO. It is a request that I make as a member of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u10	The Minister prefers to explain the two dossiers. An exchange of views was requested with the Minister and the Minister is free to decide how he provides his explanations. The debate will, of course, take place separately on both dossiers. I therefore propose that the Minister continue his explanatory statement on ARCO, after which the debate on both issues can be held separately.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u11	Mr President, in my vision of the organisation of work, Parliament is quite capable of asking the minister to split the debates. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u12	Mr President, in this assembly, the committee is in charge of its own work. We control our work. It is not the Minister who decides how we conduct our work here. If a majority in the committee believes that it is better to deal with one subject first and then the other, then that is a legitimate question, which also benefits the order. I propose that the members of the committee take a decision on Mr Gilkinet's proposal, which we are in favour of.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u13	If that is customary in this assembly, then no vote should be organised. After the debate on BNP Paribas, I propose that the Minister explain the dossier on ARCO. Who is asking for the floor after Minister Geens' explanatory statement? I note Mr Gilkinet and Mr Van Biesen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u14	Mr. Chair, Minister, I am very sorry to interrupt your presentation, but I really believe that the two issues need to be discussed separately. First of all, I would like to go back to your introduction and that of the President on the concept of day-to-day business. On the one hand, it is not known how long they will last; on the other hand, routine business does not prevent the government from dealing with urgent matters. You have taken initiatives on this issue by writing to Mr Bonnafé and meeting him on 15 July. In view of the initiatives you have taken, I believe that we can ask you about this. The situation would be different if it were the sale of our stakes in BNP Paribas. Indeed, in this case, the issue could not be dealt with in the context of routine cases. Having said that, I would like to remind you of our position on this issue. You have witnessed as well as your predecessors, Minister, our constant concern about the position defended by the Belgian State represented by two directors in BNP Paribas. In addition to today's issue, we have already been concerned about a number of issues. I am thinking, for example, of the placing on the market of products that were invitations to tax fraud such as Luxumbrella, the participation of BNP Paribas in land grabbing mechanisms, the active role of the bank, notably through its Swiss and Monegasque subsidiaries, in international tax evasion mechanisms. In July 2013, I was calling you. On that occasion, I had tabled an explicit motion, which had not received the support of the majority, in which I asked you to question our directors and the management of the bank, with the aim of making it known that the Belgian State, a public shareholder of the bank, could not accept obvious breaches not only of ethics but also of legality. The case that was highlighted, following the US court decision, has an even more serious aspect. But this time, you've reacted as I've been asking you for a very long time. You called the CEO and the management of the bank, but also called our administrators. This proves that this would have been possible in previous cases. This is very important in terms of principles. Still, it appears today – I would like to clarify this point with you – that BNP Paribas wanted to hide a number of transactions from the US courts by using subsidiaries outside the United States, including its Swiss subsidiary, to carry out operations. Also because this has a significant financial impact on the bank, for its shareholders, including the Belgian State. I'm doing a parenthesis. You complain or denounce this up to the point of the US justice system in this matter by invoking the risk of destabilization of the banking system. The Ecolo-Groen Group has repeatedly wished for greater voluntarism on the part of the public authorities (by taking civil action) or of the European or Belgian courts in other cases, thus showing the banking sector that it could not with impunity endanger shareholders and the states in view of their systemic importance to our economy. I come to my final questions on this issue. We have had regular discussions on the role of directors appointed by the Belgian State. You have given me answers that you have already given me. They have an independent status but have been appointed to the bank by decision of the government. I dare not imagine an investor other than the Belgian State, whether it is Mr Albert Frère or a pension fund, considering that once appointed, the appointed directors no longer have to be held accountable or that they are not given any letter of mission at the time of their appointment, such as asking as a State, an irreproachable ethic and respect for legality by the banking institution concerned. One can only see the concealment strategy that was that of BNP Paribas. When we read the 2009 and 2010 reports, we guess the United States' risk of conviction, but nothing is explicit. Whether at the time of the purchase, forced and forced, of the 10% of the ownership of BNP Paribas or in the reports of the directors representing the Belgian State and the SFPI, this risk has never been mentioned. At the time you chose to sell the 25% of Fortis rather than the 10% and slightly more BNP Paribas, this was not taken into account. Minister, we find that your reaction, even if it has the merit of exist in relation to the previous case, remains particularly sweet, soft. Do you consider that this meeting with Mr Bonnafé is sufficient? Will you use the possibilities given by the French right to request, for example, minority expertise, which is possible from the holding of 5% of the bank's capital, so that, beyond what you were told orally and that, according to your own words, you have understood more or less well, we have an effective black-and-white report of the situation? At the next general meeting of BNP Paribas, will the Belgian state, which has a right to vote with its 10% of BNP's shareholding, vote for the discharge of directors? After these facts, we had already requested the resignation of Mr. Tilmant following the revelations of the offshore leaks and the fact that he had been involved in tax fraud cases in an earlier banking life. Do you maintain your confidence in the two directors appointed by the Belgian State? I admit I was quite shocked to read Mr. Van Broekhoven. I was shocked by the distance and lightness with which he considers that BNP Paribas has been in commercial contact with Sudan, whose human rights practices are known, and by the distance it has taken in affirming its independence from the Belgian State. Personally, as an elected representative and therefore one of the representatives of the citizens, I believe that this interview deserved or still deserves a reaction from you, until the withdrawal of confidence in this administrator and, in this case, the two administrators. Is this route envisaged by the government in the continuity of this first act that you put forward by asking the management of the bank to come and explain itself to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u15	First of all, Minister, I would like to thank you for the accurate and technical presentation of the problem, which is certainly appreciated in our committee for its clarity, which enables us to take note of the problems that arise today. I wish to return to 14 November 2013. A plenary debate was held on the sale of Fortis, a Belgian bank in which the government had shares, in which almost all groups participated. From the point of view of the Chair, we clearly asked whether it would not be more logical to also sell our 10% stake in the French bank BNP. The Prime Minister then replied to Parliament that he was in favour of maintaining participation, because it allowed us to weigh on the bank's policy and defend Belgian interests. I quote. As has already been said, we are currently the largest shareholder of BNP Paribas, with the right to propose two members on the board of directors in Paris. We therefore have the opportunity to intervene by legal and regulatory means. We were therefore able, through the independent directors, to weigh on the board, to obtain information and to steer the operation of the bank. However, recent statements by the directors indicate that neither Parliament nor our ministers can be informed, as our directors are only Members. Let me see what our participation in BNP Paribas means. In my view, we can only subscribe annually to the dividend to be received and propose an independent driver for a certain number of years. That is all we can use as such. Today, with your important statement, you have also shown that the Belgian State cannot take account of the bank's policy. This contrasts with what the Prime Minister said to us at the meeting of 14 November 2013. This brings us to the question of whether it belongs to the core tasks of the government to still own shares in this bank. Minister, you still believe in a policy that maintains participation. However, I urge you to sell the shares as soon as possible. It is not our job to continue investing in it. By the way, between 14 November 2013, when we asked a similar question, and now the share was significantly higher. In this way, after we asked for the shares to be rejected, since we have nothing to say there, you could sell the shares with clear added value at the beginning of the year, and the figures are still quoted in Trends today. We must be honest and we must not be more obstinate in Parliament than we are: we cannot weigh on the transactions. So let's keep our hands off it so we don't get them dirty, like we did in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u16	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his briefing. I think we should welcome the fact that you have taken the time and agreed to come to the meeting of parliamentarians who, quite legitimately, are asking many questions about this complex matter. I will respect the framework of our work. So I will not preach to you explaining my great conception of what a financial system or a banking system in general should be. Instead, I will try to stay in the file to find out a little more, knowing that the topic is mobilising complex parameters. First of all, Minister, I will ask you the question that everyone, I believe, is asking: what is our participation in BNP Paribas Fortis worth in the current course? I think it'd be nice to have some ideas. I hear about selling or keeping, but I think it's very common sense to first wonder how much participation is worth, how much it was worth in the past, and whether a good or bad deal would be achieved by selling it. It is a matter of common sense, regardless of the rest of the file. Secondly, you explain to us, it is fair to say, that in terms of law, directors must not respond to shareholders' injunctions but must work in the interest of the corporation. In this regard, I think it is conceivable for a shareholder to be able to make a general statement to remind that a board of directors must act, of course, in the interest of society; and that one cannot act in the interest of society if one does not respect the laws, the legal frameworks of the territories in which one operates. It's common sense. It's consistent. It is not illegitimate for a shareholder to say so. It is not an injunction for directors to tell them that they must respect the legal frameworks in which they operate. Still in this respect of the relationship between shareholders and directors, there is certainly the board of directors, but there are also general meetings. In general assemblies, one can speak out. My question is: is there enough expression in the general meeting of BNP Paribas Fortis? Of course, there are agendas, but it is also possible for shareholders to influence these agendas. A shareholder's ability to share is to be able to weigh in a general meeting. As far as the relationship between shareholders and directors is concerned, which is at the heart of the problem, a number of speeches can be made and a number of principles laid down in a debate like this. I imagine that our directors at BNP Paribas Fortis are attentive to what can be told in parliament. Like us, they read the press – and I thank them for their massive presence. So they know what we're saying and what we're telling you. And, in particular, the lack of understanding of the non-compliance with a number of mechanisms that prevent past abuses in the financial system, the lack of understanding that such administrators would not generally ensure compliance with anti-money laundering and tax fraud legislation, or the lack of understanding that they would be able to accept that a number of banks benefit from offshore structures in tax havens. This kind of speech can be held, in general, in this chamber. We must be able to respond precisely to this apparent contradiction between injunctions to directors, which are impossible, we are told – it is indeed difficult to do so with regard to French and Belgian rights – and actions in the interest of society. Minister, I would also like you to clarify the link between the offence and the US criminal territory. What links BNP Paribas Fortis' contentious transactions to the US criminal law territory? Is it the only fact that you made transactions in dollars or is it the fact that BNP Paribas Fortis has a subsidiary in the United States? Is this a combination of the two? Is that a third thing? For example, the fact that these are not only dollar transactions, but also materially through the US financial system, through the US territory? In this regard, something is missing, and I would like more information on this matter. The other aspect that seems important to me is how BNP Paribas Fortis will absorb this $9 billion shock. First, will this exceptional expense be related to fiscal year 2014 or fiscal year 2015? Of course, the general question is whether this will have an impact on the distribution of dividends for our future budget cuts, but regardless of this for the following budget cuts. If the French tax system has a system equivalent to ours, i.e. the system of recoverable losses over time indefinitely, in this case it is the French taxpayer who, gradually, will absorb this loss from the moment he makes the taxable profits of the successive accounting years of BNP Paris Fortis. Thus, the debate would rather become a French debate. Where we are concerned – we must be supportive because French taxpayers are respectable taxpayers and we must be able to care about them as well – it is about the link between the evolution of BNP Paribas Fortis' future profits and the allocation of dividends in the coming years, knowing, of course, that we must not confuse accounting profit with tax benefits. I think this debate is very complex. I would like to know whether there are other disputed areas within BNP Paribas Fortis that we would not yet know about, in which case, what are the means we are using to update them? From this point of view, I will remind – and this is a general speech that we can make in the hope that it will be passed on – that administrators have a very important investigative power according to the law; it is true in Belgium as well as in France. Therefore, still in general terms, we would not understand that administrators do not seize this power to go to the bottom of things and check whether, in any other field, such as tax havens, money laundering or fraud, BNP Paribas Fortis would allow itself here or there certain freedom-takings that might be considered illegal.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u17	Minister, I would in turn like to thank you for your willingness to be here. You, like the President, outlined the framework. We're in ongoing business. So it is not obvious to have this debate. It is also not obvious to get answers to all the questions. I am therefore grateful to you for holding this meeting, but I agree with several fellow Members that we absolutely must have that debate, here in Parliament and in this committee. My fellow Members have already pointed out that the debate is extremely technical. You yourself mentioned a number of things in your speech, which are very technical, both in legal, economic and financial terms. What matters to me and my group, however, is that the large banks in recent years have now shown a great deal of commitment. I do not want to refer to the economic crisis, but I am doing it here. Nevertheless, they persist in anger. You have said that there is more control and that there really needs to be more control from Europe and Belgium. Why did all that come to light? From the United States, and much less from Europe and Belgium, a number of mechanisms were initiated. Perhaps in the future, as far as I am concerned, we should start thinking about putting control mechanisms in place absolutely. Europe also has a crushing responsibility. Minister, I would ask you, where you can do this, to set these things in motion. We are talking about what happened until 2007 in Sudan. The fact that such a regime has still been supported is the worst of all. You say, like the representative of the Belgian State on the board of directors, that it was petroleum transactions and absolutely no financing of the civil war. Excuse me, Minister, but it was indirect of course. If one sells petroleum products, one also indirectly finances the regime. I do not think we should discuss this. Everyone agrees that this is reprehensible and that we must avoid such a thing in the future. What I do not hear in the discussion is perhaps difficult for you, because the government is in current affairs in what way this kind of thing will be avoided in the future. We are still shareholders of the bank, even if we are minority shareholders. Even though it was not us at the time, in 2007, we are indirectly responsible. What really bothers me, Minister, is that our representative is also riding his bike. As far as we are concerned, the ethical issue is at stake. Our representative is not answering that at all. There are a number of technical and legal issues which are perhaps correct. However, you did condemn the case in your speech. Our representatives don't do that. It can't be. Even though they are legally covered and are not allowed to say certain things right now, I believe that our representatives should also defend the ethical code that you have just quoted and which we all support. If something goes wrong, they have to be able to admit it. Let us not forget that we have invested EUR 7 billion of tax money in the bank, Minister. Mr Van Biesen just said that in exchange for that money we had two representatives so that we could steer the bank's policy a little bit. Turns out this isn't the case at all. We can't send anything. It is also much worse: the values that the Belgian State represents are not translated at all by our representatives on the board of directors. Minister, despite the difficult situation in which you are responding, I would like to know whether you agree with us that we need to deal with our representatives in a different way and that our representatives also need to deal with us ethically in a different way. I believe that there should be a transparent investigation in the bank, because there are still people who have received bonuses and such from that bank. Now, if we are to impose a billion-dollar fine now, these people should also be called to account. I believe that there is a need for an investigation at the bank in this respect. Secondly, as a shareholder, I believe that the Belgian authorities should be allowed to hold a bourgeois party against those responsible for the loss suffered. Anyway, the State will suffer losses because the debts will have to be paid anyway. I understand that you are not in favour of selling the share, because you think it is a bad time, especially through this whole discussion. However, the State will suffer financial losses. Is it not appropriate, then, for the Belgian authorities to set themselves up as a bourgeois party? This raises the question as to whether the bank should also ask itself a bourgeois party with regard to those who took the decisions at the time. Finally, Minister, the question arises as to whether the Belgian State can remain a shareholder in this bank. According to Mr Van Biesen, the State must remain a shareholder in order to continue to follow the bank's policy and even to determine part of it. However, it is now clear that we cannot do that at all. If there's no other way, I think we should think about selling our shares in this bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. Normally Parliament's recess occurred after the previous part-session, but this subject has shocked us all so much and it is so good that we can now meet. There's no way to minimize the facts. I am pleased that you stressed at the beginning and at the end of your speech that the financing of rogue states such as Cuba and Iran is unacceptable. In particular, the financing of Sudan, where there is a regime responsible for genocide, murder, rape and countless refugees, cannot be justified. However, I have a mixed feeling, because between the beginning and the end of your speech it seemed to me to be a somewhat minimalist reading in a number of areas, which contrasts with other things I have noticed. For example, you are talking about the amended interpretation of the legislation at the end of 2005 on clearing the US dollar. You also stated that 18 months later, with the exception of one transaction, there were no more transactions with Iran, Cuba and Sudan. I just read something else in the statement of fact. You will find on the website of the U.S. Department of Justice the statement of fact, which was signed by BNP Paribas himself on 28 June 2014. In it, the BNP Paribas officials confess that, for example, BNP Paribas quotes a few confessions "intentionally used a non-transparent method of payment messages." I would like to remind you of the word "intentionally." This means that the method was used to hide the US dollar being used in countries subject to US embargo debt. BNP Paribas has also known that the bank has collaborated with other financial institutions in order to conceal this intention and knowingly. This is not the case if there are doubts about the interpretation of the legislation. In such a case, this is not done intensively. If one thinks it's allowed, it's done openly. One will only hide certain things if one knows that it is not allowed. This seems quite logical to me. The responsible parties also confess in the statement of fact that BNP Paribas removed information identifying sanctioned entities from US dollar payment messages. So things are effectively hidden again, because those involved know that it is not allowed. They do not dispute this, otherwise they would not hide it. I have one last quote. Until 2010 BNP Paribas participated in eight Cuban credit facilities. So it's not just one small payment that slipped somewhere between the soup and the chips. Participating in eight credit and financing institutions in Cuba is not a matter that simply falls between the folds. It is a pity that this minimises what has happened in Iran, Cuba and certainly in Sudan. We cannot accept that. It is not about whether or not we have shares in the bank in question. We cannot accept such an attitude from any bank. It is also strange that you mentioned the conversion of prohibited dollars and permitted euro debt securities. In my opinion, this was a somewhat strange expression, which suggests that funding regimes, such as the regimes in Sudan, Iran and wild species, would be less of a problem in euros. For me, that is at least an equal problem. I know this isn't illegal. Dollar payments are prohibited by US law. However, that is not our legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u19	Mr. Dedecker, I have to interrupt you. I have made it very clear that although this is not prohibited in euros and what is not prohibited is unfortunately permitted in this world, GDP has nevertheless stopped its transactions in Sudan and Iran and has not replaced it with euro transactions. That's what I said. As far as Cuba is concerned, it's a revolving credit. Hence your misunderstanding. That does indeed give us a different face-to-face from what I have explained to you. We all have to dare to show a little relativity sometimes. As far as Cuba is concerned, the majority in this Chamber would not find it wrong to do transactions in euros. Perhaps you would, but I do not think that the majority in this House would agree. I think I was allowed to say that. However, I do not want to say that because it is not prohibited, it is morally permissible. Only those transactions can be made in euros, and that is why I have said that it is strange that Europe does not have the rules it might have on certain embargo countries in this area. That's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for this clarification and my apologies if I had blamed you for certain intentions. I didn't mean to. Indeed, the word 'euros authorised' indeed raises concerns and you share that argument in relation to that word. We need to see what else we can do. As Mr Van Biesen has already said, it is not up to the government to bank. We, too, do not believe that this is the responsibility of the government. It's still a remnant of trying to solve the banking crisis. Of course, in the long term a sale is appropriate, but I would like to distance myself from those who are now arguing for a quick, hasty sale. A sale is made on the basis of financial arguments rather than ethical amendments. They certainly don't do that with a band in the lead. Now announcing that we will sell that participation mordicus with the band first, is asking for brading prices and that would not be smart. I therefore share your opinion in this regard, Minister. You say that it would not be wise to go head-on in that way, so I take note of a certain lack of thought on the part of certain people who called for it, such as Mr Crombez who spoke about it. As far as reporting is concerned, we have a participation, but apparently only from independent directors, not from direct directors. Apparently, the reporting to FPIM is actually some kind of information just before the publication. We get foreknowledge, at most the night before the publication of the public information. I find it strange that you say that you are in permanent contact with the Belgian representatives. Apparently, that's a phone call the night before. That's pretty limited. So we do not have much to say there. It would have been more interesting, but that is talking after the often, if we had someone directly on the audit committee. That seems a lot more important to me. We should consider to what extent there are still possibilities. After all, the Belgian State is the largest shareholder. That's not negative. I deeply regret the communication of those representatives. Mr Van Broekhoven says that as an independent director, he must watch over the general interest of the bank. So he's not there on behalf of the government, but he's watching over the importance of the bank. Corporate governance, all well and good, but I still wonder what the importance of the bank is when dealing with such transactions, knowing that they are not allowed. I wonder what the importance of the bank is there. I hope you will ask for more information on this. How do you see the further cooperation in this area? You're talking about the driver's notification in 2011. Nevertheless, the 2009 annual report made a first mention of the US prosecutor's investigation which started in December 2009. I see two years of difference between them. Where's that coming from? Do you have any idea? In addition to the reporting of the directors to the FPIM, has there been a response from the National Bank as a supervisor, particularly during the period when we still had a stake in BNP Paribas? Do you still believe that we will not feel a fine of USD 8.9 billion to a bank of which we own 10%, that the taxpayer, the citizen, the society will not feel any of it today and not later? In other words, will the dividend remain unaffected? Will you stick to that statement?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u21	Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for your good explanation. Even I as a lawyer, among all the financial experts here on the committee, understood. So that can count. Minister, we all condemn this behaviour, and you yourself have said so. I have no doubt that you have also discussed this with our drivers. You even said it to the CEO himself, as I understand it. So I do not quite understand why there is doubt about this, we all regard the actions as unethical, where we are all on the same side. I only note, if I understand it all correctly, that the facts have happened at a time when we had no directors at all, let alone shares in BNP Paribas. I am following Mr Dedecker, who here in committee made the analysis and the process of what went wrong then, but that went wrong at a time when we did not have those drivers, as we now have them. Then I have a brief thought. I wonder if it's not better to keep the shares, to avoid this kind of unethical practice. It's only about 10%, I understand the limitations of the power of those shares, but when one sells them, one has nothing more to say. Mr Temmerman also stated that it is therefore necessary to preserve those shares. Colleagues, I think we all agree that banking is not the core business of a state, of a country. Besides, we did not proactively choose to acquire shares in the banking sector in 2008. That was an emergency intervention, which Mr Dedecker also said was necessary at the time to save the bank. It is our view that we should not be proactive in this and that we should at least reject banking, because it is not a core business. For the sake of clarity - Mr Dedecker has argued in the same line - and perhaps somewhat contrary to what Mr Van Biesen has advocated, it is ultimately about money from all of us, from the taxpayer, which was invested in certain financial structures, in certain financial companies. And so, as it seems to us, we need to be very careful about this. In this respect, we are on the same wavelength as the N-VA earlier. As far as we're concerned, it's not about getting the shares off the market quickly, it's about getting them off the hook. That is the most important thing at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u22	I give the floor to Mr Hedebouw for his maiden speech in Parliament on a subject which he is probably very interested in.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u23	Mr President, Mr Minister, thank you for your presentation: it gives me the opportunity to carry out my first parliamentary intervention in my life. This is an important moment, especially since we are dealing with a banking issue, which is a great pleasure for a PTB MP. As for the limitations of today's debate on the grounds of a government in day-to-day business, I would note that Belgium has a long tradition of important banking decisions during periods of government in day-to-day business. I therefore believe that today we are well placed to hold an in-depth debate on the matter that concerns us. At the end of last month, Minister, it became known that the American state imposed a record fine on BNP Paribas. As the Labour Party, we took note with dismay of the total silence of the Belgian Government on this matter. However, we have a 10.3% share in the bank. The Belgian State invested considerable capital, money from all of us, in the sale of Fortis. It is clear, however, that the State does not supervise or control what happens to Belgian taxpayers' money. No one in this House seems to know what the Belgian representatives on the Board of Directors of BNP Paribas knew and what they said or did. Worse still, the Belgian State has no say on the Board of Directors of BNP. Mr President, this is an unbelievable course of action. Surely the State should know what happens to the money of the Belgian savers who have an account with BNP Paribas? Surely the state should know what it is doing with the shares it owns and which are worth billions of euros? But no, everything is as opaque as possible and is left to a select club of private bankers. Since the financial crisis of 2008, the government has repeatedly claimed that it is doing everything it can to really control the banks. A few months ago, even a banking reform was approved. But if the State itself is a shareholder in a bank, apparently the government does not even have the right to have a look at large-scale banking operations. Minister, it seems to me that another political and even financial lesson is to be learned from this case. For months and years, we have been told that public authorities have no control over private banking. We are told that states are powerless. We are told that it is impossible to charge the banking world. Today, it must be noted that when the US government decides to charge almost 9 billion euros to a private bank, it accepts. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we draw the following political lesson: when a political power decides to charge, let us admit, the nominal tax of 34% for the banking system – which is far from the case in Belgium – it is quite technically, politically and financially possible. Minister, the Labour Party continues to stress the need for a public bank, a public banking service, an ASLK of the twenty-first century. Unlike many political forces here who want to encourage you to sell the Belgian State's stakes as quickly as possible, we would like to encourage you to re-establish a real public banking service, in which we really have our say, in which we could really see all the transactions, fraudulent or not, taking place there. First of all, Minister, I would like to hear from you what measures you propose to ensure that the interests of the Belgian State and savers are monitored in the future. Secondly, I would like to know how those responsible for the fact that the Belgian State does not have any control over BNP Paribas will be punished. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u24	Apart from Mr Calvo, are there any Members who wish to intervene? Mr. Dedecker?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u25	I would like to make a brief correction.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u26	Okay, after Mr. Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your first explanation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about the debate. I have heard a number of things about the statute and the reason for the debate. I have heard fellow Members say that it is a very technical debate. It is clear that there are a number of technical elements in this debate. It is also clear that it is important to know and explain the technicality of the debate and the course of the whole matter. However, let us be very clear: this is first and foremost a political and social debate. I have seen this many times in other debates, including in the banking debates that Mr Gilkinet and Mr Almaci have followed strongly in recent years for our group. At that time they also tried to call for the necessary technicality to mask the essence, the social and political debate. Secondly, this is not a new debate. I have already referred to a number of speeches by our group and a motion by Mr Gilkinet from July 2013 which, among other things, advocated a much more active role for our directors at BNP Paribas. Thirdly, it is called a celebration of democracy because Minister None is prepared to come here. However, the opposite would be exceptional or news. It is clear that a number of political groups, including ours, have asked the Minister to come here and explain. It is obvious that the Minister is here. I thank him for that. However, let us not overestimate this effort as it seemed at some point. Minister, you are very welcome, but it is quite natural that you should give a lot of questions, texts and explanations after a period of silence. You have partly answered some of our questions. I would like to zoom in on four specific aspects and questions that have not yet been addressed and have not been answered. You've had a meeting with the CEO. That's a good thing. It shows that you've taken control of the file. You have said that you have listened carefully and noted things and that you have reflected them in your explanatory statement, unless you have misunderstood things. Well, I think there should be no misunderstanding about such matters. An oral explanation an interview with the CEO is actually insufficient. Mr Gilkinet has already referred to the possibility offered by French legislation to the small shareholder from 5% to designate an expert to examine formally the situation that has arisen in recent years. That is a formal question from our group. You have that option, you have 10 % of the shares. You can activate your drivers to request such an investigation. Are you willing to do that? I believe that this issue is too important to leave it to bilateral coffee parties and oral explanations. Are you prepared to ask the question of a formal report and activate your drivers in that regard? A second point concerns the statute of directors. Mr Van Biesen has been kind enough to quote the Prime Minister literally from the plenary session of 14 November 2013. He said that the directors would give us an impact on the bank's activities and could even ensure that we steer the financial sector in a different direction. In the debate we are now having, we find the completely opposite. The Minister says that it is actually independent directors, who are at most the night before us, and then we should be able to keep it very quiet about the way things are going within the bank. What is their statute really? Minister, what did you negotiate? Do you not think it makes sense, if we are 10% shareholder and still invest a lot of money in it, to put it understatement, that the directors have a social mission and a mission and organise active feedback? I read in the newspapers Mr Van Broekhoven's statement that he is an independent director and his highly personalmost individual opinion on the board of directors. To be honest, I do not agree with that. That is why I ask that these directors should be given a clear social mission or mission, a clear framework against which they should check their administrative activities. Thirdly, Minister, you say that you had a meeting, and I assume that that is true. BNP Paribas has issued a press release in which the bank states that it has made mistakes and cannot do so. Whew! That makes sense, because it is indeed distasteful and scandalous, so that is not possible. That bank seems to be aware of that, and you have every confidence in it. However, once again, Mr Van Broekhoven, Professor with Open Vld-signature, says about Sudan. He actually relativizes and minimizes the situation there. Violence and atrocities have been the rule in that region for decades, he says. That's actually pushing the responsibility off of him. He does not share or express the indignation that now lives in Parliament. Even when asked for a response, he is unable to share that indignation. I wonder whether this man is capable of being an administrator and Mr Gilkinet has already asked that question. Minister, you have already maintained some of them, which gives you the opportunity to look at the situation in greater detail. After all you know, do you still have faith in the two administrators? Someone who says that the atrocities have existed in Sudan for decades is firing himself as a director of responsibility. At least that's what I'm reading. Well, in my opinion, that person is no longer able to run a bank, a bank that needs to be run more ethically and less risky. Finally, I come to shareholdership. For some groups, such as Mr Van Biesen's, the incident and the debate is an opportunity to have great ideological discussions. We must not bank, we must get rid of it as quickly as possible, as Mr Van Biesen says. We must keep our hands off them as quickly as possible, he says, because we must not get our hands dirty. Our group takes a different view in principle. The government can play an active role in the financial sector. In the long term, it can see whether it retains its share of BNP Paribas or not, I agree with that, but basically saying that it should not have anything to do with that is not our position. What I regret, Minister of Finance, is that members of your government are now starting to improvise on an important issue such as shareholdership. The Council of Ministers meets in preliminary cases. Has that been an object of discussion there? Is that where the debate is going? I don't think improvisation can be the intention at all. To sum up, Minister, first of all, as far as we are concerned, the government must play an active role as long as it is a shareholder. Its participations in the financial sector should help create a different picture of the financial sector and initiate reforms rather than perpetuate the existing malpractices. Secondly, are you prepared to appoint experts for a formal investigation? At 10%, according to French law, you can initiate such an investigation. Are you willing to ask? Thirdly, the whole Parliament rejects the actions of BNP Paribas. The designated drivers have not so far rejected them. Are they even in place there? Can they stay in charge of BNP Paribas?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u28	Mr President, at the beginning of the sitting you said that you were pleased to chair this committee, after sitting there a few years ago. For my part, I would like to express my pleasure at sitting, for the first time, in this eminent body among all parliamentary committees. I must tell you that I was very much impressed by the intervention of the Minister of Finance and his concern for transparency. If, like my colleague, I believe, minister, that it is quite natural for you to be present in this chamber to answer the questions of parliamentarians, I must admit that you have given a very comprehensive statement both as regards the chronology of events, but also the legal characterization of the facts of which you have not concealed the seriousness. In substance, each of us, including our distinguished colleague from the PTB, will agree that banks are obviously essential to the functioning of our economy. But the banking sector still needs to focus on the real economy. A link must be created between savers, banks and businesses. Moreover, the fact that the State is a shareholder of a banking institution is not in itself a sufficient guarantee to ensure that the institution fully fulfils its societal role. The difficulties encountered by Dexia Bank, while the majority of the shares were held by public authorities, will be remembered. This is the confirmation that the shareholder State is not in itself the guarantee of a societal vocation of the banking agency concerned. In any case, the CDH wishes, at all costs, to avoid conflicts of interest between the regulatory State and the shareholder State. Too much proximity between some banks and the state does not seem desirable. More specifically, we consider that the State is not intended, in the long term in any case, to remain a shareholder of a banking institution such as BNP Paribas, which is a global group whose scope far exceeds the modest Belgian market. When the conditions are met – and I agree that this cannot be done in haste or for emotional or political reasons – we will have to consider, when the time comes, the sale of our shares. In the meantime, as things are what they are, it seems to us that the State must play its role as shareholder of BNP Paribas. In the press, the role of administrators has often been discussed, and the relative independence has been mentioned here. However, the Belgian State is also present at the general meeting via the SFPI. It is in this context that I would like to ask you a few questions, Minister. How does Belgium make its voice heard in the General Assembly? Can you reassure us that this voice is not only expressed, but also heard? Do you have any specific examples, if any, that would reassure us that the voice of the shareholder State is indeed heard and respected? The second area of concern, already mentioned, is the impact in terms of public finances. What will be the impact of the payment of this $8.8 billion fine on the federal government's 2015 budget? If I am not mistaken, the dividend received in 2013 – I think it is confirmed for 2014 – amounts to no less than 186 million euros, which is not insignificant. In the longer term, do you have information on the impact of this fine if it is measurable? Finally, I share the wish of my colleagues to obtain information on the government's position on the sale or holding of its stakes, but I fully understand that you would prefer to remain silent on the matter, if only because of the current business period and that any speech on your part could be detrimental. I won't be much longer because a lot of things have been said. In addition, I realized that the minister was looking forward to speaking on the ARCO guarantee issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u29	Mr President, Minister, I would like to make a brief correction. My quote just now on the permitted euro coins was a false interpretation of myself. It was Mr van Broekhoven's quote, who himself stated in interviews that there would be no problem for him if the euro had been used. It was wrong to attribute that quote to you, Minister. I therefore agree with Mr Calvo, who referred to further quotes by Mr Van Broekhoven. I just wanted to make that right, because it's correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u30	Mr President, Mr Finance Minister, I would like to thank you, on behalf of my group, for your presence in committee in order to enlighten Parliament on the events that have ejaculated the press in recent days. I was particularly shocked by the statement by the directors who represent our participation in BNP Paribas Fortis. After the hours we have spent here, in this very room, twice in 2008 and 2011 to work on the analysis of the causes of the financial and banking crises that have hit Belgium and to try to establish a reform of the banking system, you will admit that it is extremely shocking to read in the press that administrators see themselves as totally independent and consider that they have nothing to say, even to their reference shareholder. I cannot imagine that, since all these years as directors, they have not had a minimum reporting with respect to their benchmark shareholder, even by acting within the framework of the board of directors in the interest of the company in which they are located, if only in view of general meetings. Things end up having to happen, since we can't hide what's not admissible anymore. I believe that all the speakers, including you and I thank you, are also deeply shocked by the financial implications of this institution in the context of Sudan. It is not politically correct to repeat it all. I think it's linked to strong convictions. Mr. Minister of Finance, I have only one question for you. Since, for publicly traded companies, it appears that our directors have strictly respected the governance of their function, should there not be exceptions and a kind of reflection on public governance that would apply in the context of a state's participation in a publicly traded financial structure? Exceptions to this kind of blackout would be made for privileged or so-called privileged information in all matters relating to respect for human rights and the responsibility of States in general. I think a reflection should be possible. It is, of course, always boring to see that there may be losses of values that will appear through our budget and that will apply to the Belgian population. We don't want to see that anymore, but these are things that can happen. What is more serious is clearly the trade which, at some point, has been held with a country which does not respect human rights and which has indirectly been able to use that money to wage an unacceptable war. From the moment that one is a State, one must be able to know it and be able to make an exception in terms of governance for information as sensitive as that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u31	I give the floor to the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have asked a panoply of questions to which I will try to answer without repeating too much. First of all, on the question of our sales policy in relation to the participation in GNP, I should like to stress that I have nothing to say but what I said earlier. I've weighed my words. I assume they're acting. They show me what I think. There is little point in using other phrases and saying other things about them. However, I would like to make one footnote. In this sitting we feel very well that there are two concerns. That is why, at the beginning of my speech, I said that marriage between ethics and finance is a wonderful marriage, but like most beautiful marriages, it is also a difficult marriage. I mean that, on the one hand, the ethical objections are very serious and, on the other hand, the first reflex is to ask the question about cost. So you have to understand, you know that, but you just can't stress it all the time, and you can't say that a Minister of Finance during such a whole procedure, if he owns a participation with the State, can't say anything that at least jeopardises the value of the participation. That is wisdom and there is not much to do about it. One may be outraged. I've been very strong, too, and I still am. I agree with Mrs Marghem that it would be nice if there were a state objection to this kind of political-ethical information. Unfortunately, there is no such exception. I, too, have felt the questioning party for such a thing. In general, however, the conflict is very difficult to control and it is difficult to do more than, up to a certain point, silence. I'm sorry, but it's true. Secondly, I will deal with the control of participation through our directors. It is clear that the directors............................. are only independent with regard to management............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I do not think I said that the directors are completely independent. It is clear that they represent the failure, de facto, in fact, the Belgian State on the board of directors of BNP Paribas. You must not misunderstand my words in that regard, Mr Calvo. The danger of an explanation is always that if one is not long enough, too little is said and, if one is long, no more is heard. I didn't say I only got calls on the eve of public announcements. I have just said that insider dealing cannot be disclosed, rather than on the eve of its public announcement. Of course, our directors regularly consult with the FPIM. I referred to two meetings on this subject, in December 2013 and in March 2014, with the date attached. So you can't think these people aren't reporting to the FPIM. They can only, in view of the interpretation of French law, I shall not elaborate on this, I have said more than enough about it, not to inform the FPIM or the Minister, who asked FPIM, by delegation, to manage that participation. Does that mean that these directors do not carry out an important task? I'll still afford something you'll have to allow me. There is an important OECD Code of Conduct on corporate governance of state-owned enterprises. State-owned goes up to 100 %. We also have 100 % state-owned banks in our country, not to mention Belfius. The OECD Code of Conduct states: "The state should let state-owned enterprises boards exercise their responsibility and respect their independence'. That is to say, I say that in order to make the paradox clear, we must say that at other times your Parliament and I will be a party to the independence of directors and independence of spirit towards the minister on whom, for example, a certain public body is dependent and under whose custody that public body is. So that is a difficult balance. That's all I want to say. The OECD Code of Conduct further provides that the State must exercise its authority in state-owned enterprises mainly through the General Assembly. You have asked me a lot of questions about my willingness to do something that would be more than yes. I will remind you that I have only been a minister for 16 months, two of which have already been in day-to-day business. During these 14 months, I was able to attend indirectly the general meetings of BNP Paribas and, on two occasions, I asked the people of the SFPI to intervene on very concrete points of the agenda. This was the case, for example, at the May meeting when I asked to speak about the bonuses; the Belgian State abstained, which amounts to voting against. We did not win, but the Belgian State clearly stated its position: in his view, a 50% higher bonus than fixed remuneration could not pass. It is certainly not so interesting in the event of abstention and it would have been preferable to vote in favour; we abstained, but the Assembly's response was only a few votes in favour. That is why it is not a question of underestimating the importance of a general assembly or the fact that we use it; I have done so twice. As far as the future is concerned, since you are all concerned by the attitude to be adopted tomorrow, I have no right to talk about it: the President recalled it in his introduction. Nevertheless, I know that the BNP Paribas audit committee, of which Mr.Dedecker is a member as one of our directors, is preparing a fairly drastic and important plan for the remediation of vertical full control. Our directors, in this case Mr. Tilmant, are part of this audit committee. He already has some banking experience, I dare say, and you do not ignore it. Yes, Mr. Gilkinet. It would therefore be useful in that regard. Mr Laaouej asked me about the accounting fate of this sanction and the fate of the dividend. I refer to BNP's press release of 30 June, in which the bank made it clear that it had already provided EUR 800 million, which will be used. The remainder of the fine in euro (5.8 billion) will be recorded as an exceptional charge in the second quarter 2014 accounts. I think I read somewhere that the fine would be settled in the next few days. I have allowed myself to say this and everyone has deduced that I attach importance only to the dividend, that is not the case because in the only interview I gave, I said the following things. I said that when BNP pleaded guilty, there had to be a reason to do so, that it was up to the US courts to judge the facts and that, for the rest, BNP would pay the same dividend in 2014 as in 2013. With regard to the soundness of the bank and the value of our participation, this may not be the time to say so, but the bank is well managed. The bank has made very interesting profits and has rather favourable dividend prospects according to analysts. The soundness of the bank as such is not called into question. Its core tier one ratio at the end of 2014 will be the same as at the end of 2013. This shows that the amount that will have to be disbursed to pay the fine is exceptional and could have been used for something else. Nevertheless, I do not believe that there is a solidity problem at BNP. I can only rejoice in this despite the facts that have taken place. Mr. Laaouej, you again asked a question of private international law. I'm not sure you're a lawyer. If you were, we could have fun about it. The question is: how is it that US legislation applies in this case? Any payment in dollars necessarily passes through the United States because it is possible to make a payment in dollars only through a United States bank or through a corresponding account with a United States bank. That only point of attachment, that only reason of attachment, allowed the US justice to say that the US embargo regulations apply, even if it is Koen Geens who makes a payment to Mr. Laaouej in dollars. You live here, and so do I, but it goes through the United States, and it's liquidated in the United States. With regard to the question of what position our directors have taken, as far as I know, I believe that our directors – and I have spoken at length with them – have done everything possible to help the bank solve this problem effectively. Some of our directors, who were also very pleased with BNP's management, had expertise in this area. Please excuse me for saying this, but they have been, as Belgians abroad are generally, very positive in their attitude and in their condemnation. It cannot be said that they were passive, on the contrary. As far as the value of our participation is concerned, I believe that we are at today's rate at some EUR 6.5 billion or something in that area. As I have already said, the rate of GNP has not fallen so dramatically because of these facts. There is just a less enthusiastic climate at the fairs today. I come to Mr Calvo's question on the 5% import duties. It is true that a shareholder with 5% can request an inquiry, in accordance with French law. At the moment, I believe that, in the area of remedial action, I have just given you a reading of all the remedies proposed and their follow-up by our directors in the audit committee and the board of directors, BNP, the second chance - which I have already mentioned. This is, of course, a means of which a vigilant shareholder can always serve itself. I also agree with you, Mrs Temmerman, that it is up to states to have a special ethical reflex. That is also what the OECD Code of Conduct makes very clear with regard to state-owned enterprises and that they have an exemplary function. We only have 10%, but I understand from you that we have to keep BNP to our word on ethical standards. As far as the National Bank is concerned, I cannot say much because I believe, Mr Dedecker, that the French supervisor is competent in this matter, so that we have little control of it from a Belgian perspective. I believe, Mr President, that I have answered most of the questions in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u33	Mr. Chairman, I confirm my diagnosis of the relative softness of the government's response through you, minister. You have not explicitly answered a specific question that you have been asked, but it can be understood from your comments that you maintain trust in the directors. I would have liked to hear you explicitly on the subject. I regret that you are refusing to use this right of investigation, which is ours, because we have more than 5% of the bank's shareholding. It seems to me that this would have been a way of clarifying things further, since there is a contradiction between what the BNP Paribas representatives say to you and the decision taken, and what justifies it, by the US courts. It would have been useful if we had activated this additional right of investigation on the part of minority shareholders. Can you tell us explicitly whether or not you maintain your confidence in the two independent directors who represent the Belgian State?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u34	Mr President, I shall be brief. I would like to remind you once again of the question of many of my fellow Members, namely how we should dispose of our shares. That is indeed an important question. For us, however, the most important question is how to deal with banks and control banks. It is not by selling our shares or making a bank a state bank again, that all other banks no longer apply such practices and indirectly support hideous regimes. In addition to the fact that we are dealing here with BNP Paribas, an important, not to say the most important, question is how to prevent such practices from banks in general and not only from the bank concerned alone, through control in Belgium and in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u35	Mr President, we should take note of the remarks made by the Minister of Finance regarding the fact that the SFPI, in a general meeting, in good intelligence with the latter, is intervening on a number of points which are considered to be fundamental for us who are collectively shareholders. We must be able to seize this opportunity and appeal to the Minister of Finance to ask the SFPI, at a forthcoming general meeting, to address the issue before us in order to be able, in accordance with the outcome of our work, to determine a position which regrets and condemns the previous facts and, above all, which calls for greater vigilance on the part of BNP Paribas Fortis by resorting to concrete measures. A whole range of laws deemed important (money laundering, tax fraud, tax havens, etc.) may be subject to further treatment and follow-up within the bank. Is the State intended to be a banker or not? I will say that, for the moment, we are! Of course, we expect BNP Paribas Fortis to help support the Belgian economic fabric in terms of access to finance for our companies, our public authorities, and even other economic actors, households, etc. It's important to be able to say it. This seems to me the most appropriate place. Good if it's done! But I can only offer my encouragement for more efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u36	I have three brief general points on which I would like some clarification. Firstly, as far as shareholdership is concerned, I hope that you will be inspired by the votes in Parliament which say that, as long as one is a shareholder, one is trying to fill in this in a serious, proactive way. I am opposed to Mr Van Biesen's approach 'let us sell as soon as possible'. I have a very different opinion. Secondly, a little more specific about the previous debate, I regret that you do not want to take advantage of the opportunity you, as a small shareholder, have to activate research and expertise in this area. I wonder what the Belgian State needs to make use of that opportunity. When will you do that? If you don't do it now, it's unclear to me whether you'll ever make use of that opportunity. You can't give a stronger signal. In this context, I would like once again to call upon you to consider this. Thirdly, I take up Mr Gilkinet's specific question. You say that on the basis of your discussions with the administrators, the administrators, Mr Tilmant and Mr Van Broekhoven, you are reassured. However, we only get statements in the press and they do not reassure us. On the contrary, they make us even more concerned, because it shows little ethics and desire to bank in a different way. You have not yet formally answered the question and yet it is very important in this. Do you keep your faith in the drivers or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u37	Mr Minister, I come back to my question about the National Bank. You're saying she's not authorized. It is true that the Banque de France is the supervisor for BNP Paribas, but I had heard that in 2011 the Banque de France also reported to the Belgian National Bank on the problems relating to the dollar transactions, but that this information from the National Bank would apparently not have gone to government level. I'd like to hear more about that. Did you know about that? What exactly happened there? I am, of course, talking about your predecessor and possibly his predecessor before that. Was the National Bank aware of this? If so, to what extent? How and why didn't that information get to the government? Maybe she got there, but nothing happened to it. I'd like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u38	Minister, you have already given a lot of answers, including to questions raised during the last round, but if you would like to make another point, I will give you the floor. Since this is not the case, we shall move on to the next issue, in particular ARCO. In this respect, the Minister will give an introduction, followed by the same procedure, so that everyone can ask questions to which the Minister will answer and then be replicated. The debate we are having is certainly not the end of the story.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u39	Mr President, the guarantee scheme of 2008 and 2011 guarantees the entry of natural persons into recognised financial cooperatives. The companies concerned may join the guarantee scheme voluntarily, subject to payment of an accession fee and an annual contribution. Following the successful liquidation or failure of the financial cooperative, the co-operatives may apply for compensation under the guarantee scheme to the Special Protection Fund for the deposits which they could not recover from such liquidation. The guarantee scheme guarantees a maximum amount of EUR 100 000 per co-operative. The same maximum amount applies to the guarantee scheme for savings deposits and branch 21 insurance. The legal basis for the guarantee scheme is the Act of 15 November 2008. This law was passed by your Parliament immediately after the serious banking crisis of September 2008. It was perfected by the Act of 14 April 2009. In a few days, Fortis and Dexia had to be rescued by the public authorities in September 2008. On the first weekend of Fortis, we tried to limit ourselves to an increase in capital subscribed by the states alone, without burden sharing, that is, without the shareholders of Fortis being required to help. The next day, from Monday to Tuesday, Dexia was saved with a burden sharing method. The States and the Regions still supported a significant increase in capital, but considerable effort was also required from the Belgian institutional shareholders, Ethias, ARCO and Holding Communal. Following this express request of the authorities and to the extent possible, the three tried to follow the movement without having the proper means to do so. Since markets still had no confidence in Fortis, the following weekend, the second Fortis weekend, was used to digest the split of the Dutch parts of the group and to sell the Belgian part to BNP Paribas. The guarantee systems that were built for the Ethias insureds, branch 21, and for the ARCO cooperants, are the direct result of the burden sharing method that was applied in the case of Dexia. Dexia's private shareholders could not subscribe to the capital increase requested of them without being covered by such a guarantee, otherwise they risked becoming insolvent long before Dexia became insolvent at the end of 2011. At the time everyone understood that there was not too much alternative. Every day and every weekend has seen its innovation, its surprise, as the various measures of aid to KBC have shown, but once a certain path has been taken, that of burden sharing in this case, which allowed the States and the Regions not to have to subscribe to the full effort required, the State had to, through the deposit guarantee system, initially guarantee the subscribing participants. As a result, the government also implemented coupon 42 to compensate Fortis shareholders, a coupon that was later modified and executed in an additional Ageas dividend on the occasion of the sale of Fortis' bad bank in 2013. Following the initial launch of the 2008 law on a co-operative guarantee system, its completion was included in the government statement of the Van Rompuy government in January 2009: "In recent months, the previous government has taken several measures to safeguard confidence in the financial system and to protect savers from uncertainties arising from developments in financial markets. In particular, it concerns the extension of the operation of the deposit protection scheme, the guarantee offered to the insurance sector 21 and the commitment to introduce a guarantee for members of recognised cooperative companies. The new government confirms the commitment made by the previous government to offer a guarantee scheme. The law of 14 April 2009 provides the King with the possibility of introducing a system whereby the State guarantee is granted for the reimbursement to natural persons of their investment in an approved financial cooperative company. The relevant provision was introduced as Article 36/24 in the Organic Law on the National Bank of 1998. This guarantee may only be granted on the advice of the National Bank of Belgium and in the event of a sudden crisis in the financial markets or in the event of a serious threat of systemic crisis and for the purpose of limiting the scale or effects of this crisis. The King organized the guarantee scheme for cooperants with the Royal Decree of 10 October 2011. A guarantee scheme already existed at that time for savings deposits and life insurance branch 21. The Royal Decree of 7 November 2011 subsequently granted the guarantee to ARCOPAR, ARCOPLUS and ARCOFIN co-ops. Both royal decrees were discussed in the Council of Ministers. On 7 October 2011, the National Bank of Belgium gave a favourable opinion on the guarantee scheme. In the opinion, the National Bank of Belgium confirmed that the conditions of application of Article 36/24 were fulfilled. It expressly noted that the purpose of the guarantee scheme was to limit the effects of the financial crisis. From National Bank overwoog hierbij als volgt – ik beschik alleen over een Franse tekst –: "Article 36/24 is applicable in the event of a sudden crisis in financial markets or in the event of a serious threat of systemic crisis and for the purpose of limiting the extent or effects. The current circumstances seem to us to respond to these conditions in that the sovereign debt crisis, the current financial market turmoil and the dysfunctional interbank markets pose a serious risk of systemic crisis to our economy. To this end, a State guarantee covering the shares of the co-operators of certain approved cooperative companies would limit the effects of this crisis." Several actions for annulment have been brought before the Council of State against the Royal Decrees of 10 October and 7 November 2011 which organise the guarantee scheme and give the guarantee in practice to ARCO cooperants. In the meantime, several of these appeals have been dismissed. Four appeals are still pending. In order to assess the admissibility of these appeals and the question whether the persons who brought the appeals had the interests required to challenge the guarantee scheme, the Council of State imposed several questions on the Constitutional Court for a preliminary ruling. Each of the questions is formulated differently, but the central point remains whether the fact that the guarantee scheme applies only to cooperants, but, for example, not to shareholders in other types of companies, such as a credit institution or communal holding, violates the principle of equality. As we have already explained in detail, in these proceedings, the State is of the opinion that the situation of the cooperants is comparable to that of savers or holders of branch 21 insurance. For this reason, we therefore also consider that it is justified that cooperants should be able to use a similar guarantee scheme. In our view, therefore, there is no question of a violation of the principle of equality either. The questions referred for a preliminary ruling must be answered in the negative. The government has consistently defended this position from the start of the guarantee scheme. I would like to point out that the laws of 2008 and 2009 were adopted jointly by a very large parliamentary majority by opposition and government. The third point concerns the granting of a State guarantee to certain cooperatives close to the financial sector, such as ARCO and Cera. The shares of these cooperative companies have in certain cases all the characteristics of a savings product. They are supposed to provide the partners with a regular return and to ensure that they receive a refund on request within relatively small limits of the capital invested. It is therefore justified to grant these shares a guarantee scheme equivalent to that which exists for substitute savings products. That is to say, bank deposits and insurances of branch 21.10.1993. I quoted from the explanatory memorandum to the Law of 14 April 2009. By judgment of 24 April 2014, the Constitutional Court decided to attach the various preliminary proceedings concerning the guarantee scheme submitted to it by the Council of State. These procedures are still ongoing. All parties must submit their pleadings in these proceedings before the Constitutional Court by 13 August. As long as the Constitutional Court has not answered the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, the proceedings before the Council of State will remain suspended. In its decision of 3 July, the European Commission assesses whether or not the guarantee scheme constitutes State aid and, if so, whether this State aid is acceptable. This decision closes the investigation initiated by the European Commission after the Belgian State informed the European Commission of the guarantee scheme on its own initiative in November 2011. First of all, the State aid aspect of the guarantee for branch-21 products imported for the benefit of Ethias, among others, was cleared by the European Commission in the context of the restructuring investigation it carried out on the emergency aid granted to Ethias. In summary, in its recent ARCO decision, the European Commission considers that the guarantee scheme constitutes State aid to ARCO that is not compatible with the internal market. The aid received by ARCO would in particular consist of the fact that the guarantee scheme and its announcement in 2008 and 2009 made it less likely to leave ARCO. As a result, ARCO would have enjoyed a competitive advantage which the competing companies could not benefit from. Unlike the branch-21 guarantee, this advantage would be selective for the financial cooperatives, since Ethias has comparable competing domestic and foreign companies access to the insurance guarantee system, while this is not clearly clear to ARCO competitors. Moreover, the European Commission considers that the ARCO aid cannot benefit from the exception provided for in Article 107 (3) (b) of the Treaty. According to the European Commission, the State aid was not necessary to prevent a serious disturbance of the Belgian economy, because the impact of financial cooperatives on the economy and the organisation and nature of these cooperatives would be different from that of a traditional banking or credit institution. The European Commission also criticises the voluntary participation in the guarantee scheme. The European Commission shall decide as follows: "The Commission has therefore concluded that the aid is not compatible with the internal market. For this reason, in the Commission's view, Belgium must immediately and effectively recover the aid granted to ARCO, put an end to the aid and refrain from any payment under the aid measure. The decision must be implemented within four months of its notification. This notification took place on 4 July. Implementation must therefore be started shortly. The Belgian State must still, within two months of the notification, i.e. by 4 September, provide the European Commission with an overview of the measures taken and envisaged in order to comply with the Commission's decision, as well as proof that ARCO was responsible for repaying the aid. The Commission considers that the aid received by ARCO should be calculated as follows: either 10 % of the capital of the companies taking into account the lowest level of this capital from 10 October 2008 to 8 December 2011 inclusive, or the value of the 10 % share of the partners calculated on the basis of the average share of the capital, at the time when the number of partners was lowest in the period from 10 October 2008 to 8 December 2011." The amount of recovery is currently being studied. For this purpose, the necessary information for the calculation should also be requested from the cooperative companies concerned. The Commission shall sit in these cases as an administrative court. A Member State is therefore free to disagree respectfully with a decision or with certain aspects of it. This is not a federal or confederal deloyalty towards Europe. On the contrary, it is a basic right of defence and appeal in the European rule of law. Although the decision is still being studied, I can say that an appeal to the Court of First Instance is in line with my expectations, but of course this has to be discussed within the government. As we set out in detail in the various procedures relating to this guarantee scheme, I do believe that our system was indeed permissible. Indeed, the situation of the co-operatives is similar to that of a small saver or sign-in to an insurance of the type branch 21. It is therefore permissible to provide for a similar guarantee scheme for each of these categories. There is much to do about whether a so-called partial proof in a recognised cooperative is a savings product or a risk product. As explained above, with reference to the explanatory memorandum preceding the Law of 14 April 2009, everyone will have to admit that there may be more than reasonable doubt. A partial proof that only entitles to the nominal value on sale and on a low maximum dividend, and that is treated fiscally like a savings book, is a foreign share. Without guarantee one shares in the losses, not in the gains. The dividend is limited according to the example of the interest, because there is a tax exemption. Even if, as the Commission claims, incompatible State aid had been granted to ARCO, I do not believe that this would mean that no payments could be made to the co-operatives under the guarantee scheme. After all, the Commission's jurisdiction is not on individuals but on companies. The only parties which, according to the Commission, received incompatible State aid are the companies of the ARCO Group. Therefore, the State aid must be recovered, but that is sufficient to remedy the state aid situation prohibited by the Commission. An additional prohibition to implement the co-operative guarantee scheme can be justified, precisely in view of the Commission's limited jurisdiction to undertakings, only if that prohibition is necessary to eliminate the market distortion resulting from the competitive advantage enjoyed by ARCO because of the aid measure. However, there is no longer any competitive advantage for ARCO: ARCO is in liquidation. It no longer carries out its activities and is therefore not a competitor for other companies. Payments to the co-operatives cannot therefore benefit ARCO or can no longer distort the market. It may therefore prove that the Commission's prohibition on making payment under the guarantee scheme is unfounded. In this case, the Belgian State could challenge the Commission's decision before the Court of First Instance in Luxembourg. We have two months to bring this action, until 15 September. The lodging of an appeal to the Court of First Instance against the decision shall not suspend the enforceability of that decision. Nor do I see any reason to ask the court to suspend the decision during the appeal. The Belgian State will also have to recover the aid which ARCO has received in the Commission's opinion during a possible appeal by introducing a claim from the liquidators. The question arises, of course, whether liquidators have sufficient assets to effectively repay the aid. In any event and in any event, recovery will take place subject to any appeal proceedings against the decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation of ARCO. Does anyone wish to intervene on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u41	Mr President, Minister, the debate on appeals concerning the guarantee granted to ARCO's individual co-operators is a new episode in the case of the dismantling of Dexia Bank. This dismantling has already been the subject of many discussions in this House and I would not like to go back to the subject or rewrite history. I would just like to recall that the position of the CDH has not changed and that it is the same as that adopted by the government in 2011. We consider that individual co-operators should be treated as savers and not as share holders since the concept of venture capital, inherent in the shares, does not apply in the case of shares of co-operators. My main question concerns the concerns of ARCO's co-operators. Minister, in your opinion, should they fear for their savings? Can you reassure them? With regard to the means that you will use to defend the government's position, you have suggested that an appeal could be brought within two months before the court of first instance. Regardless of this recourse, are you working on another scenario, the famous plan B? In the event of invalidation of the guarantees, what form could this new mechanism take?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u42	Mr Dispa, it is true that we are not going to ask about the intentions of the resigning government. So we're not asking about a plan B. We have agreed not to make the process of the previous government and not to anticipate what is to come. You may ask those questions, everyone is free to ask questions. However, we must remain within the limits of an exchange of views on current matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u43	Mr President, I agree with you. I hear about plan B that would hire the next government. Let's see that we're in day-to-day business! It is not a question of starting to do acts of disposition, if I may say so, that is to say, to commit the next government for the future. Let's be careful! As part of this exchange of views, I believe that the Minister's presentation makes it possible to distinguish between the two levels of discussion. First of all, the issue of equality before the law. This is a first area that has been discussed with the Council of State and the Constitutional Court, a reference for a preliminary ruling. It's a first part. The second part is the internal market. At the same time, in order to be able to respond to the Commission's objections, it must be possible to go back to the question of whether unwarranted discriminatory treatment between the co-operators on the one hand and the shareholders on the other. In other words, there are two interrelated legal issues. However, you have had a dialogue with the Commission. Before taking its decision, the Commission first notified. She asked you a number of questions. I therefore imagine that the arguments that you have raised today have been discussed with the Commission. So how do you feel about the Commission's receptivity to the arguments you have put forward today, if there has been this space for discussion between the Commission and yourself? I come to a second element. If I understand correctly, the Commission is encrypting the extension of the guarantee granted to co-operators, even though this guarantee has not been liquidated. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u44	She's been liquidated. I would therefore like to know how the Commission figures the aid it is asking Belgium to repay. I do not understand very well and I would like more information on this. I repeat that at this stage it seems difficult to engage the next government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u45	Mr President, I have regularly asked the Minister about the status of the issue, because a significant number of co-operators want to know their final fate according to the provisions that the government will take and whether or not the supervisory authorities will accept. Mr Minister, you said that the government has a period of time until 15 September to take an appeal decision in relation to the decision taken by the European Court of Justice. Clearly, this decision has not yet been taken by the government. Has a first discussion taken place within the government on this issue? I am trying not to question you about your intentions, but about what has already happened in terms of formal or informal discussions within the government on this matter; or do you want to wait for the last moment and know if you will still be in charge of the matter? As regards the principle of recovery of aid, I share Mr Laaouej's question. The guarantee has not yet been activated for the benefit of the co-operators concerned. So, de facto, there's nothing to pay back unless I misunderstood. Since we cannot question you on Plan B, I can assure you that we will be curious about the solutions that will be proposed as the case has been poorly managed since the beginning, as the government has repeatedly taken its feet in the carpet as to how to implement this guarantee. Will you achieve a real consensus with your partners, if you are part of the government, better than yesterday? I'm curious to know, but it'll be for a next episode.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u46	Mr President, Mr Finance Minister, this is a great problem for lawyers: whether or not ARCO's co-operators are savers are shareholders. Several bodies, such as the European Union, have addressed these issues, such as the Council of State and the Constitutional Court. I imagine that the government is not left behind and that some of you certainly have an opinion on this. I had expressed my personal opinion, and I maintain it, although I have not been consulted and I am not aware of the latest details of the evolution of the legal reflection on this question: in my view, co-operators are not savers and should not be considered as such. I assumed this position as chairman of the Dexia Committee in 2011, but I assure you that I did not have a majority on the outcome of this particular vote. Something special is happening again. So far, except for your leadership, I thought that no intervention had been settled in terms of the Belgian State's guarantee vis-à-vis ARCO pending the liquidation of this structure. According to the press, it is expected to intervene towards the end of 2015. Like Mr Laaouej and probably like Mr Gilkinet, I thought that the theoretical calculation carried out by the European Commission, which raises the intervention to 1.2 billion or even 1.5 billion – stop me if the figures I have taken back in the press are not correct – should be financed by the special protection fund created and, as you pointed out earlier, by an annual contribution which corresponds to 0.15 % of the amount protected by all participants, as well as by single entry fees corresponding to 0.10 % of the amount protected by the co-operators. Has the Government, the Belgian State intervened? Light us up! How high? Otherwise, or even if this is the case, is the European Commission's assessment of this order of magnitude? Could the Special Protection Fund then intervene in due competition, or would it be insufficient? If this is insufficient, there is still another mechanism put in place by the Government which provides that the Caisse des dépôts et consignations can advance the necessary means. This means that this further advance should be repaid, and this is foreseen: it is specified that 50% of the annual contributions due by the institutions required to participate would then be repaid, and that a special annual contribution due from the financial cooperatives would also be made. Has this advance from the Caisse des dépôts et consignations already taken place in this case? You can imagine it. If so, how much? If this Fund has intervened, is it expected that the final charge, since it is only an advance, will be borne by someone? Either all Belgian credit institutions, in which case it will be assumed that they pass this advance on to their customers; or is it the State, in fine, which is required to contribute also, through this Special Fund, in particular through the SFPI? I would like to have a small technical explanation to understand the path by which this guarantee has or has not been activated and, if it should be, to whom the final charge would be placed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u47	I will have Mr Calvo and Mr Dedecker ask their final questions, and then it is up to the Minister to answer because it is almost 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u48	Mr President, I understand that we cannot ask the government about its intentions. At the same time, I understand our colleague's demand for a plan B. When the Minister himself makes statements in campaign time and in current cases that he is working on such a plan B, Members of Parliament cannot be blamed for questioning the Minister. Minister, you have announced that you wish to initiate an appeal. I understand that this is still the subject of discussion within the government. Do you have any idea when this will be decided? I am asking this question because, like Mr Gilkinet and probably many others, I believe that the co-operatives deserve clarity. Any statement by the person responsible must be based on the decisions of the government rather than on the intentions of the government. Can you tell us when the decision on the appeal will be taken? That seems to me to be important information.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, our group did not approve the legislation on the basis of the guarantee scheme at the time. We continued to repeat that this is not a proper way of working. We note that the European Commission is now right to do so. However, we do believe that something needs to be done for the victims. We must not leave the victims in the cold. At the same time, however, we must identify the responsibilities. That must not be forgotten. The fact that this has not been or could not have been done so far is inextricably linked to this. Of course, there has to be a way to do something for the co-operatives. That will have to be part of the government negotiations. The Minister himself has called for this. The negotiators are doing their best, in all discretion, so I will not make any further public statements on this. These are things that are best done as discreetly as possible to maintain the chances of success for the formation of the new government. Nevertheless, a small question to the Minister. The government is indeed in ongoing business. You are going to consider an appeal that is not suspensive, as you say. In its decision, the Commission states that the Belgian State is to repeal the legislation underlying the cooperative guarantee scheme, namely the Law of 14 April 2009 and the Royal Decree of 10 October 2011. To what extent does this fall within the competence of current cases? Will this happen before both the law and the KB?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u50	After this call for discretion, I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u51	Mr President, thank you for the floor and for your wisdom. As far as Plan B is concerned, I believe that a politician has a duty to think the same thing after the elections as he said before the elections. I cannot say much more at the moment. It goes without saying, however, that these 800 000 people are concerned. That is also understandable, because legally this has become a cuddle in which a layman does not find his way back so easily. I come to the issue of state aid, Mrs Marghem, Mr Gilkinet and Mr Laaouej. What is the problem? It is at this level, in my view, that the node of the question of the appeal lies. When I explain it to you, you may better understand my point of view. The problem lies in the fact that the Commission accuses the Belgian State of having made sure that ARCO's cooperants could, between 2008 and 2011, afford not to worry about whether they should withdraw, leave, resign – it seems to me the term of the law – from the cooperative society or not. Normally, the co-workers might have thought, after the 2008 crisis, that it was preferable for them to withdraw as a result of the crisis. According to the Commission, this withdrawal would have created a liquidity problem for ARCO. This, in its view, is State aid in so far as ARCO's competitors did not have the opportunity to inform their shareholders or savers that they should not be concerned because of the State guarantee. What jurisdiction does the Commission have with regard to legal persons? It has companies. However, ARCO is an undertaking which has received State aid in so far as it has received a guarantee from the State not for itself but indirectly for its cooperants as they have not had to follow their intuition or have been forced to withdraw. The Commission makes a calculation to measure this virtual advantage. She wonders who could have retired. In reading ARCO's articles of association, she said that in one year only 10% of co-ops could have withdrawn because the co-op could, under a statutory clause, limit the number of withdrawals per year. It's a normal thing, the co-op works like a bank, and if everyone runs on the bank, there's gonna be a liquidity problem. So there is a statutory limit. ARCO did not have to apply this statutory limit because the cooperants were reassured by the State guarantee. The Commission therefore states that the virtual advantage received by ARCO corresponds exactly to 10% of its capital, since in one year 10% of the cooperating companies could have withdrawn. This calculation is worth what it is worth, it is an approximate approach to reality but it can be explained. The Commission is asking us to demand reimbursement of this amount. We wrote to ARCO asking him to tell us the number of members and their respective contributions and the average per cooperant. We will take 10% of one of these two amounts to be able to calculate this benefit, which we must require reimbursement before the beginning of September. Of course, nothing's been fired. The state didn't fire anything. However, by virtue of the guarantee, the Commission considers that we have ensured that the cooperants should not withdraw. It estimates the value of this benefit at about 10% of ARCO's capital. Mrs Marghem, you are asking why it is considered state aid when the guarantee will be paid by a fund to which banks, insurance companies and cooperatives that join the system contribute. You're saying they're not state funds. According to its case-law, the Commission considers that, when the contribution of the funds is regulated by the State, this is sufficient for it to be considered State aid. I am simplifying: this guarantee fund is indeed made up of contributions, but it is the State which determines which bank, which cooperative, which insurance company should contribute to it and to what extent. This is considered State aid not because it is State funds but because the State determines how the funds are set up. Mr President, I therefore believe that I have answered most of the questions. It is clear that I am replying to a question from Mr Dedecker: according to the operative part, we must do a number of things and, according to the conclusion, a number of other things. In a Commission decision, a distinction must be made between the conclusion and the operative part. We will, I think, be able to limit ourselves, on that basis, to the operative part, which is la décision, articles 1 to 5 and thus give effect to the decision. This is about the recovery of the advantage, in the way the Commission imposes on us, within two months.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-07-17-54-commissie-ic001x.u52	That is how we came to the end of the exchange of views. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their questions and reservations. I would also like to thank you for your answers, Minister.
