ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u1	Colleagues, Minister, we can begin our work. This afternoon, we put on the agenda an exchange of views with the Minister of Energy on the issue of the relief plan. For the record, the Commission chaired at the time by Mrs Lalieux, organised several hearings on the subject during September-October. After the formation of the government, we had key issues on the agenda, such as guidance notes, policy notes with the budget and the program law. This afternoon, we can hear the minister on this issue and have a series of information on it. How do the government and the minister consider the practical organization of this potential release plan? This issue was put on the agenda in agreement with the minister's office, which I thank for her presence, but she said this morning that she was having a difficult agenda this afternoon. Minister, can you tell us what your availability is or whether you have a proposal to make with regard to the order of business?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u2	Mr President, thank you. Colleagues, I am of course at your disposal, but it turns out that my agenda is that I will have to go to the Royal Academy for the 60th anniversary of CERN, from 3:15 p.m. to 3:45 p.m. Can we imagine that I would present the file and arrange the question-and-answer session after that? If it does not suit you, I will be apologised for this demonstration.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u3	The committee must take a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u4	Mr President, that is not ideal, but if it is about half an hour of suspension and there is a division between explanations and questions, then that should work. I hope that it will be noted in the Minutes that the opposition is once again very constructive with regard to the procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u5	Yes, and I propose that we add in particular the Ecolo-Groen group.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u6	Mr Calvo, I do not need a record to remember.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u7	Mrs Lalieux, are you as constructive as our colleague Mr Calvo?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u8	I want to be constructive, Mr. President. Simply, we could have started the commission at 3:15 p.m.; it would have prevented us from rushing between noon. In the face of this double agenda that the minister has agreed to, the commission will submit itself. However, if we say it's half an hour, it's half an hour. We will not wait indefinitely for your return. This is damaging to an important debate this winter. So it's not about half an hour being turned into an hour. If the minister can assure us, that's fine; otherwise, there will be a big agenda and procedural problem for this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u9	What time could you be back, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u10	Normally, the demonstration starts at 3:15 p.m., so if I'm there at 3:15 p.m. saying I have to be back in Parliament at 3:45 p.m., I guess I'm going to be released. My text is relatively short and my speaking time will not exceed two or three minutes in my opinion. It should be okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u11	Mr President, I also think it is, of course, a regrettable coincidence. Anyway, I agree with the previous speakers. I will be no less constructive than Mr Calvo. No one would expect that. So I think it is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u12	No less and no more.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u13	Colleagues, if there is consensus on this, I propose to hear, as a first step, the minister. We will then resume our work at approximately 3.45 p.m. [[.]] [[Sitting on the benches]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u14	Thank you to all the members of the committee, especially those of the opposition, for their constructive proposals. The circumstances of the risk of shortage that we are facing this winter should not be the subject of controversy. These are objective elements that make it possible to identify, estimate and describe the possible shortage that we should face. Most of the time, even in winter, our power plants of various types produce enough energy to meet our needs. It is only at special times, during very strict winters, that an imbalance can be found. This was the case in the winter of 2011, when we had energy consumption needs of 14,000 MW. In the winter of 2013, which was relatively mild, in January we reached peak consumption of 13,885 MW. It is at these particular times, which often correspond to peak consumption hours, between 5 p.m. and 8.30 p.m., that any problems arise. At that time, hundreds of thousands of people are returning home, lighting up, heating up, washing one or the other, turning on the oven, taking baths for children, etc. That's what we call the peak consumption. If at that time a harsh cold prevails over our country and neighbouring countries, the amount of energy required is even greater. And if the demand goes beyond the available quantity, the system operator Elia n'a d'a d'another solution than to carry out destabilizations, i.e. programmed cuts of predetermined areas, to avoid the collapse of the network and therefore a more serious evil, namely blackout. In that case, the entire country would be plunged into darkness and the breakdown, instead of lasting only a few hours, would last about 24 hours. It is to be hoped that, if this happens, everyone, when a crisis is announced, will be able to reduce their consumption even further in order to avoid the use of relief. Elia organised herself to set up a system of notification to the public and she made known with the help of DG Energy through the OFF/ON campaign. That was the signal that was launched during the campaign. If we make sure to consume energy soberly, and moreover at a delicate moment, the whole country can remain in the "ON" position. The world is divided in two, as you know, but the country is divided into five blocks: two in the North, one in the Centre and two in the South. Each is divided into six tranches, which are not made up of regional or local geographical areas. The same section may therefore concern municipalities which are remote from each other. On the other hand, the same municipality – or even the same street – can be fed by several distribution stations belonging to different groups. This situation may change depending on one-off factors, such as work on the distribution network. For reasons of proportionality, the parts of the provinces of Hainaut, Liège, Namur and Luxembourg have been subdivided by my predecessor into zones A and B. Let us take the example of tranche 6: in the north and in the centre of the country we will simply speak of tranche 6, while in the four southern provinces we will distinguish tranches 6A and 6B. Therefore, if a shortage occurs, the release plan will only be activated by the government, I repeat, in case of absolute necessity, and if all the efforts made during the notice period have not produced any significant results and all the pre-emptive measures that the system operator has planned to increase supply and reduce the consumption of "interruptible" customers or other citizens are insufficient. It is then the Ministers of Energy and Economy who decide, on the eve of the day when a shortage must occur, by issuing a mandate to Elia, which tranches must be deprived of electricity at peak consumption times – in order to avoid the general breakdown that I mentioned earlier. The public will of course be warned by the indicators which are broadcast each time during the television news. In addition, it will be several days before. Indeed, a wave of cold, fortunately temperate, is coming, but it does not manifest overnight. Therefore, according to the weather analyses, it is clear that we can anticipate the arrival of a cold wave and the measures to be taken to balance supply and demand for electricity consumption and, possibly, to speed up the decline in demand, thus moving the course. When weather forecasts detect and see this cold wave that could cause such an imbalance, the J-7 process you know will be initiated. In fact, it is reported that by the end of this year (end of December-early January) up to -7 degrees, which is not extraordinary, but we will have to pay a little more attention at that time in terms of energy demand. Calls to reduce consumption will increase over this period, such as issuing instructions, and plans at various levels, i.e., federal, provincial and municipal contingency plans, will enter an effective phase. I note that Mr Nollet also likes the discharge plan very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u15	Of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u16	I see him. It's a joyous love. As weather forecasts become clearer, i.e., if announced at J-7 and confirmed in the following days, the threat will become more concrete up to J-1, where at the end of the day, once validated and confirmed the latest forecasts, Elia will give her final analysis to the minister concerned who, ultimately, will mandate her or her to release one or more slices, as recommended by the TSO. Cuts will last about three hours, a priori between 5 p.m. and 8 p.m., during the peak daily consumption. However, this may occur at other times and for longer periods, if the concrete situation so requires. In the event of an extreme situation, the general number of the tranche (e.g. tranche 6) will be given to the press of the instalment concerned or the instalments, and the subdivision concerned for the four southern provinces of the country (e.g. tranche 6A) will be specified. This communication will take place at J-1, just before the evening meeting, i.e. by 7 p.m. at the latest. It will always be a subdivision of the same slice that will be chosen. Thus, we will never choose the slice 6 plus the slice 5 A. Similarly, both A and B of the same slice will not be delestized either. It will always be either Part A or Part B. If the discharge is to take place several times this winter for different days, the slices will obviously be removed in turn to avoid always affecting the same portions of the population. Let's admit that the 6 + 6A band was affected on a Monday and that we still have to unload on Tuesday, another slice will then be chosen, for example the 5 + 5A. A priori, the order should be followed by the ministers; it would range from 6 + 6A to 1 + 1A and then resume at 6 + 6B to 1 + 1B. It is still possible for a weather reversal to occur, although it is rare for this to happen abruptly. The solidarity effort of the population and large consumers can also be very important; and finally, the relief would not be applied. Once the discharge is initiated, i.e. the mandate for the discharge given according to the situation, therefore in the absence of reversal of the weather situation or of particularly intensive efforts that change the situation, it is DG JRC, that is the Federal Crisis Council, which is at the Ministry of the Interior, which then takes over. He leads the crisis and triggers the federal phase. The Prime Minister may, at any time in this phase, take his hand. The philosophy of the relief plan is to be federal, despite the fact that communal and provincial plans exist, are already in place and generate concerns already taken into account by the mayors and provincial governors. It's a federal plan, managed at the federal level, if there is any relief. I talked about the balance of the electrical system. The frequency of 50 Hz shall be present on the power grid at any time. This frequency makes the balance between electricity generation and consumption, and this at all times, for the proper functioning of the system. When overproduction or underproduction occurs, the measuring instruments in Elia immediately detect the phenomenon. Reserve 1 is automatically engaged. This allows us to react to both cases. For example, last week there was a lot of wind. As a result, wind turbines have produced a great deal. The system experienced overproduction, which had to be corrected automatically, which was done. At other times, the system is experiencing an ad hoc sub-production. This was the case during the fire on the Tihange 3 transformer. R1, R2 and R3 have been activated, and all other measures with interruptible customers, as well as interconnection, have been implemented. Everyone saw nothing but fire. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u17	I can laugh too. As far as the shortage and black out are concerned, you know as well as I do, black out is a sudden event (Tihange 3), to which we must react immediately. Thus, thanks to the automatic safeguard measures and to the interconnection and all that Elia can do to compensate for this loss, they can withstand up to 2,000 megawatts on a point-by-point basis. Beyond that, this becomes more problematic, while in the event of a shortage, almost everything is predictable, since at the last moment, an effort on the part of important consumers and citizens consumers can change the situation, but everything is predictable and set in motion in the count of a period of between 7 and 3 days. The last few days are obviously crucial, because, in general, the temperature and conditions do not change frankly during this short period of time, and that is where the messages would intensify and allow everyone to prepare for a potential release. What is the distribution of roles during a shortage? It is Elia who sounds the alarm, who proposes the safeguard measures to the minister, who communicates to the distribution managers the decisions made by the minister and who, if necessary, triggers the positions as part of the relief plan. It is the ministers who decide what action to take. The authorities, i.e. the SPF Economy, the Federal Crisis Centre, the governors and the mayors, are responsible for communicating with each other about the situation. All DSOs and Elia have participated and participate regularly and very actively in consultation meetings both at the interface level between the transmission network and the distribution network and with the authorities concerned. The information that circulates between the authorities, i.e. the Crisis Centre, the FPS Economy, the governors and those responsible for areas potentially affected in the event of a discharge, allows to answer an impressive set of questions concerning sensitive sites, such as fire stations, call centres 100, etc. And on the basis of a list of priority customers, which is established by the SPF Economy, the GRD identifies these customers and, if the discharge is activated, executes the operations necessary to reload them according to the order of priorities in terms of reloading. Hospitals are given priority and need to be reinvigorated quickly, within 15 to 20 minutes of a discharge. The FPS Economy and Interior, together with the Federal Crisis Centre, produced a mapping for provincial governors. This mapping takes from a photo of the distribution system operators the different communes affected by the discharge slices. It's information that everyone can take care of. The same authorities have consolidated the different lists of priority customers from distribution system operators as well as requests from certain FPS, governors or public undertakings such as Infrabel, for example. Synergrid, the professional organisation of transmission system operators and distribution system operators, studies and refines the different procedures between the different actors. You know the process in case of shortage. I've already mentioned it, but we can go back to it through your questions. After the discharge, when things are taken over by the Federal Crisis Centre, there is a recovery of the situation for all the clientele, each time taking into account the recharge, for example, of priority centres such as hospital centres. In case of shortage and if the decision to proceed with the removal is made, Elia remotely cuts the feed from the primary station. The DROs put the primary station in safety by opening all the station circuit breakers remotely. Elia restores the tension to the primary level and the DSOs replenish priority customers before customers who are not by replenishing the important decentralized productions. On instructions from Elia in relation to the load, DSOs refuel sensitive customers, those who are not a priority but are included in a list of the Inland FPS and/or, failing that, those who are included in the 2005 Ministerial Order. Then come all the other customers, the citizens like you and me. The duration of full recovery is very difficult to estimate because it depends on many factors, such as the capacity of production and the ability to accept the pieces of information which are to be transmitted and which will be transmitted by Elia, the effect of additional consumption points at the time of recovery, i.e. all equipment which may have not been disconnected and which suddenly recover from electricity consumption at the same time. This, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is for the technical and general presentation of the relief plan. I am at your disposal for the questions you would like to ask in this context. I think it's at the Royal Academy that this demonstration is taking place. I therefore propose to come back here at 3.45 p.m. to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u18	Thank you very much, Madam Minister, for your intervention. As planned, we'll suspend until 15:45.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we resume our work even if some colleagues are still likely to join us. Having heard the Minister's presentation, the discussion was open. Mr Wollants, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u20	Mr President, we seem to remain in the order we started with Mrs Lalleux. No problem for me, but I had actually understood that there were a number of other opinions. Madam Secretary, thank you for your statement. We have already had a lot of discussions about the switch-off plan and a lot of opinions have been ventilated, but the market is not standing still and we constantly notice that there is still some evolution in what is happening. I refer, among other things, to the agreements with the Dutch and French transmission system operators regarding the reduction of capacity to ensure that there is less available for the real market but more available to obtain electricity in our country. At the same time, we know that this also affects the market and that a market survey has taken place on the basis of that initial encore, if I may say so, from TenneT on the one hand and RTE France on the other. Apparently something else has come out of the bus and one has to take another step first. We have to shut down these Dutch power stations first and then turn those French power stations into power stations. If that is not enough, then we must only reduce these capacities. I am not sufficiently technically qualified to understand the impact that this will have on our own system and on how our producers should respond and how our suppliers and companies should respond to it. I would like to hear from you whether that has effects or whether we are actually in the middle here and we are the game of the whole thing. This also leads to the question of the available reserves abroad. In the meantime, do you have more accurate figures of what might actually come to our country? You know that this has been a discussion between Elijah and the producers. FEBEG made a number of statements on this subject this summer. Can you clarify how much energy we will effectively get across the border? A further point has been raised very often: the involvement of emergency groups. We know this is a difficult case, especially for this winter. I am afraid, however, that the problem of the closure plan will not be just about this winter and that it is possible that we may also have problems in the next winter. The coalition agreement provides for consideration to be given to how, if necessary, we could involve the federal emergency groups in the D3 dynamic profile, in order to ensure that they can also pull the cart to keep the light on. Have you made any progress in this area or are you going to work on it after the winter to ensure that we can use it for the next few years? The exit plan always provides the necessary discussion, for example the problem of the port of Ghent. The port is located in one of the disks, which has led the city of Ghent to initiate a procedure to act against the exit plan. Can you give us an update on this? Is there a direct effect of decoupling the methodology of the sequence of the disks or do you expect a court ruling to be effective? I can't tell you how far the file stands today, but I think it's interesting to look at it. If the methodology were to work, I can imagine that other cities and even rural areas would consider it as well. In the long run, we're just playing the hot potato to each other and everyone finally did it. There are also several options, such as sensitisation, as regards taking measures prior to the switch-off plan. In that respect, Lampiris did a test on November 27th. It is far from clear what the results were. They have put up clear figures there, and on the basis of the same figures, Elijah says that it might actually be up to something else. I took the test and applied Lampiris' methods on Wednesday last week. This showed that at that time, without anyone knowing, there was such a test going on, because then more than 1 000 megawatts were saved on the predictions. Was there a result or not? That seems interesting to me to know. Was it a variation in consumption compared to the predictions or was it something else? I would like to know that so that we know if there is an effective impact. Calling us to save power is absolutely a good thing, but we should also be able to measure it, so that we know what it will do for us at the moment when the need is greatest. I am well aware that this is a long-term project, but it is something we certainly need to take with us. In the next step, there is the issue of so-called mandatory measures. If we now browse the FPS Economy web site, we will find a whole list of frequently asked questions for families and companies. The answers are very often 'investigated'. In the case of restrictions on decorative lighting: will be investigated. In all kinds of energy saving: research is being carried out. For tips that people can deliver to Elijah: will be investigated. Shouldn't we be moving towards a phase where clear decisions are taken: we are doing this and not this? I can imagine that the studies carried out have produced certain results. We should be able to provide our families and businesses with ever more accurate information. Since this summer, all actors have said that they want to join the cart to keep the light on. That is a good thing. For some reason, they hadn't found each other at the time, or couldn't have discussed their separate roles. Have any progress been made in this area? Can everyone be involved in tackling the problem? The willingness is very broad. It would be good to make effective use of that. There are a lot of questions about compensation, both from companies and from families. There's a cut-off until three o'clock. In other parliaments, such as the Flemish, it has always been said in the past that an announced closure to four hours for a household does not entail direct damage. Is this piste still being walked? Is there now more clarity about the position of the insurance sector? Many of the questions I have just raised also refer to the possible compensation for those who are insured for them. Has Assuralia taken a clear position in the meantime?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u21	Madam Minister, thank you for your briefing. Since you started by saying that the plan of relief should not be the subject of controversy and for having lived through all the hearings, I can say that the polemics have never come on the side of the socialists but, if you read the records of all these committees and hearings correctly, the polemics came on the side of your party in relation to the government in current affairs and to the ministers of energy of the time. I can talk about it because they're not here. A certain overbid was made. I do not intend, Madam Minister, to do political overbidding around a plan of relief because we must actually prepare a state. We should not, however, look for this on our side or for other parties of the majority. Madam Minister, we remain a little hungry because you, like your predecessors, have again explained the whole procedure of the relief plan. Everyone here knows her. I know you're not supposed to know what your predecessors said, except that there are records. I think we need to move on to a higher level of information in Parliament in relation to the discharge plan and the way it is done. We have heard it on many occasions with all the actors involved. That was very useful for our committee. Today, it seems to me that we need to go a little further. On page 95 of the Government Agreement, it is also indicated, as you have told us, that "the government will take the initiative before emergency generators can participate more formally in the market, including its own generators". What is the status of this intention? It is known that generators can be important as part of a release plan. You told us in your policy brief, the first time you came to see us, that it was a priority for you and your firm. A subsidiary question that had been raised in our hearings was where we are particularly in the context of the emergency generators at the disposal of the State services, including the Defence. Indeed, there could be support in an intergovernmental and inter-governmental manner. Have there been any contacts with your Defence colleague to use, if necessary – just like you, I hope there will be no release plan – these state-owned generators? The second specific question. In the newspapers Het Laatste Nieuws and La Libre Belgique of 7 November, you indicated that, unlike your predecessors, you had not yet decided which slice you would first activate. Yet, as I said in the discussion on your general policy note, it is important to say this in advance to the first casualties, in order to allow time for local authorities and people to prepare. My question is simple. Will the slice 6 first be deactivated? Has this decision been made? Can you tell us clearly? This would perhaps reassure not those in tranche 6 but those in the other tranches. We also had an excellent exchange of views in the Committee on Infrastructure – I do not know if you had sent one of your collaborators to attend – on the problem of the clearance plan and the consequences for SNCB. Both CEOs had prepared this hearing in a remarkable and detailed manner. They reminded us that if the slice 6 was first affected, they would not have to stop the trains completely. But they need to know right now to get ready for what's best and to study feasibility. This data was not yet guaranteed in Infrabel with respect to signal booths. It is therefore important to know your answer to this question for SNCB. In addition, your colleague Galant reassured us about the J-1. It was said that Elia, for fear of possible compensation as a result of appeals against her, wanted to announce only two hours before the discharge. If that is the case, it will be chaos for SNCB. Brussels would have 400,000 commuters who could not return home and the trains would be scattered throughout the country. You know that apart from slice 6, if there's a release plan, no train will run. Do you confirm that the Council of Ministers has decided that the announcement of the plan, on D-1 day, will take place well before 6:00 p.m. or at the latest at 6:00 p.m. at J-1? It seems to me important that, as the appropriate minister, together with the Minister of Economy, you confirm the information provided by Mrs Galant about SNCB. Indeed, the safety of travellers and workers is affected by this possible chaos. On the other hand, suppose, even if I do not hope, that Elijah announces to J-7 that a shortage will occur. What binding measures will you take to avoid this situation within the framework of the relief plan? I'm not talking about interruptible contracts. I would add that it is up to you to make such decisions, not to Elia, because these are political decisions. Ministerial decrees had been announced setting out these measures. Are they ready? If so, when will we be able to learn about it? If they are being developed, when will they be ready? What binding measures will you take to reduce electricity consumption? It is important, Madam Minister, that the municipal, provincial and regional authorities know this right now. Your group already said that in October. So it's more than time! Then I heard information – but only once, so maybe it's wrong – that you would have told the press, and I use the conditional not to be accused of caricature...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u22	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u23	It's not me. Thank you, Mr. Nollet! So you would have said, Madam Minister, that one of the binding measures you could take under a royal decree is street lighting. I'm not talking about highways, I'm talking about streets. Suppose all the streets of Tournai must be powerless to J-7.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u24	But not to the coast.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u25	We are all invited by Mr. Vande Lanotte to eat shrimp croquettes. I say yes without hesitation! Minister, I think that would be the worst of the measures. At 5:00 p.m., it is not a measure to be preferred for people who are going to pick up their child, for the elderly who have to go home in the most complete dark. If you take this step, I think we will oppose it as we can. On the other hand, will other measures, such as the closure of some public administrations one or two hours earlier – which I think is a bit more structured and structural – be taken? What are you really looking at? It's time to know them. Are you going to release those famous royal decrees that are in preparation? Do you consider that the information flows sufficiently to the local authorities? Do the processes set up with your colleague from the interior or the crisis centres work? Should this information be improved or do the meetings you have show that you are fully ready and that everything will "roll"? I would like to know how this government has taken charge of the coordination of all ministers. Finally, I come to a fundamental point, which was much discussed at previous meetings. At the moment, can you certify that hospitals and nursing homes are ready to deal with a discharge? Are actions still under way? Has all the information been collected? It was said that this was the priority! Are all hospitals and nursing homes ready? Will they be given priority in order to be "re-launched" immediately?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u26	Mr President, Minister, thank you for being here again to explain more about the exit plan. This committee has already met on several occasions on the exit plan. It started with a meeting during the holiday, when there was still great uncertainty and concern. It was then called upon to communicate transparently and to provide people with objective information so that the concerns would be reduced. I think this worked out too. I am thinking of the various information campaigns, such as OFF ON, that people can follow well. Also with the weather report an icon appears now. All this information reassures the people, and that is a good thing. If Target 4 is now restarted, the chances of a possible shutdown will be reduced, which will only benefit a calm feeling. I had prepared a lot of questions, but Mr Wollants and Mrs Lalieux have already asked a lot of them. I won't repeat them. There was an initiative to deploy the emergency groups of the federal authorities. What's the status? There was also a campaign by Lampiris to encourage people to use less energy. The first figures were very hopeful because the energy of half a nuclear power station was saved, but afterwards those messages were objectified and contradicted by Elijah. Afterwards, the journalists who had posted the articles also expressed reservations. Is there going to be an action to reduce energy consumption? In your opinion, how much less will be consumed than the families that follow these actions? Another important tool is the import capacity. We have already had a discussion here with Elijah who has presented figures. The maximum import capacity is 3 500 megawatts. In need, additional imports could take place via TenneT, the Dutch Elijah, but a number of conditions are attached to this. Can you give more information about when this emergency procedure is launched and what the conditions are for it? We have also discussed the issue in Ghent on a number of occasions. I will not go into that now, Mr Yüksel will do so. Ghent is in Zone 6. That is a problem, but in Zone 6 there is still the positive news for the trains that could still run. This was also the subject of many debates in the Infrastructure Committee. According to the information I have received from Mr Van den Bergh, one of the major problems was to obtain a definitive ruling on whether or not to drive the trains, a lack of information from the distribution system operator Eandis, who did not have sufficient information to determine which signalling devices were closed and which were not. So there would be a lack of information because of Eandis. I do not know if that is correct, but perhaps you can verify or clarify exactly what the problem is to determine whether or not the trains will run. That would be a solution for many in the event of a shutdown. A penultimate question concerns the ban, which has already been addressed here. A number of measures would be taken, including the switch-off of street lighting. I already asked the former Secretary of State, Mrs Fonck, who said that there would be two royal decisions, one on consumers and the other on buildings and lighting. What is the status of the royal decrees in question? Are they ready? Have they been published yet? How's that going? Finally, there is the question of compensation, which has been discussed several times. An investigation would be carried out and it would be examined whether there might be anything in this area for insurance. It would be nice if that fee could be clarified.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u27	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the debate, which is a somewhat virtual and exotic debate with many contradictions. For example, there is talk here of SNCB. If SNCB decides not to drive if there is an electricity supply problem, then the problem is solved immediately. After all, the peak has shifted in such a way that there is no longer a switch-off. I'm just taking that as an example. I would also like to point out that there is still a great deal of uncertainty. The city of Ostend will not, like Ghent, set up a procedure, because we firmly believe that the exit plan will not come. However, I am giving an example of what we do not know, and that is not insignificant. At high tide, we have pumps in Ostend to pump the water from the interior to the sea and thus to prevent everything from underflowing. We have asked how this problem could be solved, but there will be no answer. There's no answer. So should there ever be a cut-off at high tide, we have a problem. As you know, we assume that the tide will come every day, but not the switch-off plan. So there is still a lot of uncertainty, which is, however, somewhat virtual. I would like to stress that I have made two comments from the outset. I pointed out, on the one hand, that what Elijah said, namely that there was only a maximum of 3 500 megawatts of imports, was not correct. That's right. Maybe it was right, but then 700 or 800 megawatts can't be found suddenly in distress. There is a high level of imports and a reserve of 1 000 megawatts is taken into account. Elia explained this here at the beginning and also noted that she could not increase capacity. We have said from the outset that there should be higher imports. It is good that agreements are now in place, but the real possibility should also be examined from the outset and not a margin of security of 1 000 megawatts on imports, so that after three months the capacity can be increased. I don't think that's justified either. In the meantime, many people have become anxious because they fear that there will be no more electricity, while we find that imports can be much bigger than what we have been told. I would like to emphasise that. Secondly, the emergency generators have been mentioned here several times. I've talked about it a lot. I repeat that the United Kingdom, which also has a problem with nuclear power plants, is strange, because nuclear power plants are of course very reliable as the first measure to use emergency generators. That is the first mandatory measure there before proceeding to closure and to the rest. We are talking here about the government but also groups such as Colruyt......................................................................................................................................................................................... Colruyt is a requesting party to turn these on. Only this means that agreements must be made between the distribution system operators and the owners of those emergency generators. I still have the impression that there is a very slow rush. I do not have the impression that the distribution system operators want to take major steps forward in this respect. Of course, it is easier not to supply electricity for an hour or two than to discuss the emergency generators. That must be technically clarified, and the price must also be discussed. That happens a little bit but very little and there is still a large margin. Anyway, I think it is important that a message is given today. Many people were almost panicked because they feared there would be no more electricity. The situation today is that Objective 4 is likely to be launched and imports increased as a result of the agreement concluded. It is important to explain the reality to the people now. Many people are still convinced that they will soon be out of electricity. Why do I want to say that today? I read this morning, I think you also mentioned it, Minister, that we still have to pay attention anyway, because it was very close in March 2012. There was a severe winter then and it was very close then. The most difficult period was March 2012.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u28	It was in January 2013.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u29	Then I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u30	It was both periods.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u31	At least it's been a lot more. Let it be 2013 now. Why am I saying this? In that so-called very difficult period when, if I may believe Elijah, everything was under discussion, 300 to 400 megawatts were sold to abroad at a high price during peak hours. So 300 to 400 megawatts were sold and exported to France. At the same time, we are told that there was almost no electricity left. We shall table a resolution in the Chamber. We want all the figures to be recorded day by day. For example, we need to look at how much electricity was needed. After all, these figures never get out. You just said it was very close in January 2013. However, we have sold 300 megawatts to abroad. Then how could it have been close? That means there was electricity. We are asking for clarification on these figures. We really have the impression that the authorities responsible for security of supply are mainly specialized in opening up a lot of umbrellas. There are no constructive proposals in this way either. This is neither your fault nor the government's fault, by the way. With regard to the imports and emergency generators of the government and the private sector, we believe that the timely objectification of the debate will ensure that the responsible authorities are confronted with their own figures. Without this objectification they quite quickly forget those own figures. This may be normal for a network operator, but we have to provide a counterweight.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u32	Mr President, Madam Minister, we have been in the sensitive period for a few weeks now. In fact, many uncertainties remain. Fortunately, for now, the plan must not have been activated. I know the circumstances and far from me the idea of having you bear the burden and responsibility for the situation in which we are. Instead, I want to take this opportunity to ask you about the current situation and what remains relatively unclear, for the very short term first and for the medium term afterwards. Indeed, in addition to this winter, next winter will be even more critical. I will therefore distinguish my requests for this winter from what is still available for next year. As far as the very short term is concerned, I do not understand why you have introduced blurry and disturbance on the order of the slices. I suppose that is not for political reasons or to question your predecessor's actions. That would make no sense. I have reviewed our first exchange and, since then, I assume that you have new elements in this area. While one can criticize him on something else, the previous government had given as order 6-5-4-3-2-1 for the tranches that would be affected. You say and confirm that this is not the order and that you would decide the day before. As a disturbance, there is no better! I see this through relatives and people a little less aware than we or a little older, who cut out press articles. They got the cards with the order of the slices, the cutting, etc., while knowing well that there might be no unloading, but that if ever unloading there is, the first slice to be unloaded will be slice 6. I'm in a good position to know, I'm in slice 6. I find it disturbing, even for us in Zone 6, to say that we may not be the first targets. I'd rather be clear, and I think that's the case with everyone. Indeed, solidarity will be called for. I'm proud to be in the first slice. That's not the problem today. The current problem is to see what information you give people in case. To prevent them the day before and to keep uncertainty on everything is not to strengthen solidarity. You won't be able to convince me about this. My first request for the short term is to ask you today, with a little solemnity, if you can give us the order of the instalments in committee. Let's take advantage of this, it's information that can be useful to everyone. I have a second request on the short term. Unless I'm wrong, the precise cut A and B has not yet been published. Currently, people know if they are in Area 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6, but there has not yet been any information from the general public as to whether they are in Area 5A or 5B, 6A or 6B. I am, of course, speaking for the southern part of the country, since it concerns only this part of the country. In connection with this, I come to a request that the environmentalists had already made in the committees that you co-chaired at the time with the Speaker of the House. Is there a way that people, by introducing their EAN code, know exactly what area they are in? Sometimes some streets are cut in half on the plane. How can citizens be properly informed? Let's imagine that here you are announcing the order of the slices, that slice A and slice B are known. But as the streets are sometimes shared over several slices or areas, would the EAN code allow these people to know in which slice they are located? On which site can they find out? I'm disturbed by the fact that you only thought of giving the information the day before, that is, J-1. It's obvious that it's better than one or several hours before. But, depending on what I have learned from previous information, a pre-warning could be given in J-7, with the area, slice and magnitude of the risk. The day before, it will not be obvious to find a solution for the crèche, for the children, to organize for the family and work. Is there no way to give information to J-7, even if the news is good later? Everyone hopes that between J-7 and J-1 the weather, the consumption, the measures you could take will reduce the risk. Could an indication of the areas concerned be given in J-7, even if cancelled later? More specifically, what is the situation at regional airports? I know that the Zaventem National Airport is exempt from the situation. What is the situation in Ostend, Charleroi and Liège? It is my responsibility that two of the three airports are involved and that one is exempted. Isn't that a disproportion? As far as trains are concerned, I am linked to the discussion that took place in the Committee on Infrastructure. I wasn't there, but I had echoes. It is relatively problematic to know that people will be sent to their place of work with the morning train, not knowing if there will be a train in the evening. I assume that things are clear about this and that your answer will be reassuring to the people who have read the reports, perhaps too summarized, of what has been said in the Committee on Infrastructure. Can you reassure us that people who take the train in the morning will be able to take the train in the evening to get home? I come to the question of compensation. It is known that this is a legally complicated issue, but the CREG, which was received here, opened the way and proposed to lead the working group. We will have to come back to this earlier when we talk about the organisation of work because the CREG depends on Parliament. I am asking you about the financial aspect since the CREG reminds us that, even in times of relief, the imbalance tariff of 4,500 euros per megawatt must be paid. Where does the money go on that occasion? This money collected during the discharge period – even if the CREG proposes to increase the rate in case of discharge, i.e. to 8,300 euros, which is the figure of the actual cost calculated by the Federal Office of the Plan – should not be used to compensate specifically targeted people, especially in rural areas? It's a matter of principle. Maybe you'll tell me it's unorganizable for this year. Let's see if it's possible or not. For next year, this aspect seems important to me to ensure that the persons concerned are compensated in the event of discharge. I am now gradually leaving the short term to come to the medium term. Another dimension is the divergence between Elia's import capacity calculations and CREG calculations. As my colleagues will recall, it was pointed out that the CREG still did not validate the figures for Elia. Can you tell us where we are today with regard to the validation by CREG of Elia's import capacity figures? The calculation methodologies were very different and the CREG rejected the way Elia calculated the elements. I asked you about the regional airports; I asked you about the trains. Perhaps even more concretely for people: what about the distribution of drinking water? Have you been able to verify this information and can you guarantee to the citizens concerned that drinking water will be accessible during the discharge periods? Or will this also be made impossible? Is it a little clearer about this need for primary consumption? Mr President, I shall continue by speaking to you or to the secretariat of the committee. Ms. Fonck told us that she had interviewed her public service, the SPF Economy, for a legal reading of the Ministerial Order. She was supposed to send us the note, but she was no longer Secretary of State at the time she received it – I think she received it when she left the firm – and it was up to you to forward it to the commission. I assume, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Chairman, that we have not received it officially. Ms. Fonck was prepared to hand over her administration's legal reading note on the Ministerial Order and its implementation. She told me at the meeting that she was ready to give it, but she obviously didn't. Maybe it's something that's in the order of the possible. If you have it, minister, if you are able to hand it over to the secretariat within the next few hours or days, it is always useful for us. I share Mrs Lalieux's question on binding measures before discharge. According to the legal reading of the current situation at my disposal, there is a need for an order, at least one ministerial order. What's the status? Have you ever discussed it? Have there ever been intercabinet exchanges? Is he going to appear soon? Will it remain secret? The question relates to the binding measures that the government takes before – towards J-6, J-5, J-4 – having to carry out the actual relief. I come to the dimensions specifically dedicated to next year; of course it is still impossible to do so in the short term. The ministerial decree: you are not responsible for it, but the plan developed by Elia was not designed to deal with a situation of shortage, but with an unforeseen incident. It was quickly transformed in view of the possible shortage. The order of the zones was reversed without changing the cutting; thus, it is different, but not on the bottom. There is a problem with the strict reading of the ministerial decree. The order states that in the event of a shortage – there is no unforeseeable accident – the territory must be cut into 5% slices. A simple mathematical reasoning gives us 20 slices. Currently, you are working on 6 slices. According to the Ministerial Order, 14 tranches should be potentially involved, not necessarily, in the order of the discharge. We see no reason why, in the event of a shortage, solidarity should not be organised throughout the country, but this is not the case at the moment. I am well aware of the impossibility of putting into practice a plan for this year, but, for next year, will we be in line with this logic? Or will rural areas be systematically given priority in these measures? I am speaking for the whole of Wallonia and the north of the country and not specifically for Brussels in relation to the rest of the territory; I am simply mentioning that certain specificities concern only Brussels. The organization in instalments must not be limited and must respect that philosophy, which could not be applied for the reasons we know. With regard to the persistent imbalance in the centre of the country, the response of the previous government – A and B – is a pragmatic response, which helps to resolve an imbalance that we have seen for the south of the country. But in the centre, the Walloon Brabant, the Flemish Brabant and Brussels, the distribution was not made by following system A and B. This remains totally unbalanced. For next year, can you also look at this dimension to better prepare things for the port of Ghent and for the central region? On the other hand, with regard to imbalance tariffs, CREG proposes that they be even more incentive-oriented. The closer one is to a situation of shortage, the more one should climb to the economic cost of the discharge, i.e. 8,300 euros/MWh, instead of 4,500 euros/MWh, which is the current tariff. It is very quickly necessary to get to work on this market incentive to go stronger and further in this area. I would also like to refer to another recommendation of the CREG, Recommendation No. 18 of its study on discharge. The aim is to strengthen the Government's mechanism for threats and closures of existing capabilities. The CREG proposes a strengthened capacity for intervention by the public authority – I am in favour – in order to be able to refuse or take under its control the threats of closure, which are in fact a way for producers to put pressure on the market and on prices. Finally, the question must be emptyed: what about the 1,000 megawatts in the short term that would enable Doel 1 and 2 to be closed down as provided for by law? I am quite fond of Mr Vande Lanotte's reading. In other words, it is possible to mobilise these 1,000 megawatts very quickly, provided that the Doel 1 and 2 decision is maintained. You announced a government discussion for December 5, but I didn't see anything. Then there was the question of 12. What about it? Do you spin the calendar – and the counter – so that Parliament is no longer able to control your decisions during the holidays? In any case, there will have to be a legislative change. But it becomes very careful, as they say in Brussels. As we are here, I have allowed myself to use this expression.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u33	Mr President, I will be brief. Many good questions have indeed been asked. In this file, I sometimes have the furious impression that not playing the card of transparency has from time to time a good one. Sometimes I think we should have told the citizens: "Sorry, we had to cut the power for two hours in a particular region, on the basis of the 2003 Ministerial Order." We wanted to play transparency, openness, information, etc. Let us still take the positive elements. It's not an easy file. Everyone is sensitive and nobody looks at their personal situation, even if everyone does it, me the first! When I received the cards the very morning of the press conference, I confess that I looked at where Petit-Rechain was. I've had every citizen's reflex. Then come legitimate questions. We talked about airports, SRMs, pumping in Ostend, birds in Pairi Daïza, drinking water systems. We all have questions every day. Everyone has a good file every day, which is justified. People need electricity for a good reason. But you have to remember why there's this discharge, it's to avoid the worst! If there were no relief, if we did not impose this element of coerced solidarity, we would all be in difficulties. And it will be the pumping of Ostend, Pairi Daïza, the airports, the national airport, the whole of Brussels and the whole country that will be affected! We can ask ourselves who's responsible for this. Whatever. Three plants unavailable this winter, I think it was not in the scenarios envisaged or, in any case, for which some back-up had been planned. But here we are! If Doel leaves again, it will improve the situation. Let us acknowledge that Doel 4 is important, but the cold it will make in the south of France is at the limit even more important than the availability of Doel 4. There is a positive element: this leads to the right questions. There are some interesting questions. SNCB has not mentioned this before. All the right questions these operators are asking today in terms of availability of electricity are true from the beginning. I imagined, however, that an operator such as SNCB had foreseen the case, perhaps not a discharge but a technical incident or an unavailability of electricity. This can happen. We lived in Tournai recently, Madam Minister, with these high-voltage cables that literally exploded. It's possible! What I'm worried about is that it's not all planned. So, if this could at least have prompted these discussions and reflections, it has given us a number of debates. This certainly leads to disproportionate fear on the part of some. Two hours without electricity, we'll have to deal with it. But at least this may have inspired this discussion. I had rather precise and pragmatic questions. I wonder how, in these perspectives, the impact of awareness-raising campaigns is integrated. J-7, that means we'll definitely have a problem. At J-3, one must give information, a real awareness, create a sense of urgency. But to say just before J-1 that we're going to cut, that doesn't sound good to me. That's my point of view, and it's just me. This means that the more the oN/off campaign progresses, the more orange and red we move on, the more awareness will increase, and the more perceptible the impact on household consumption. I hope so, at least. My question is quite simple. As we find ourselves in a system of balancing, of matching supply with demand, a crucial element and principal law in the field of electricity, how does Elia manage and integrate these awareness campaigns into its perspectives? Does society take this into account? If so, is it maximalist? That's a real question. If awareness campaigns bring back 100, 200... up to 500 megawatts of lower consumption, the difference is huge. What will they do, and how did they ask themselves the question? Second concrete question. We wanted a federal plan. You reminded him: when J-1 arrives, the federal government takes care of crisis management, although it is more about the interior than about energy, but let's move on. We wanted a federal plan for a common line to be followed. Have you managed to get a common message about schools, crèches, SNCB? When J-1 arrives, do we stop to avoid mess on the network and unloading? I don't know! For all these points, is there a common federal message, coordinated with all the governors and communes? Have you done the inventory of mandatory generators in hospitals, MRs and MRSs? This campaign has at least been positive: our communes and our governors are laying the question at all their hospitals, MR and MRS. It wasn't a bad idea between us. Finally, we will know the availability of generators in Belgium. Finally, we will have this very important state of affairs. Could you give us the line and the various elements of federal messages that you are going to send in relation to all of these services? I know it's not easy! As far as the Doel 4 nuclear power plant is concerned, this noon the Nuclear Safety Commission met. We must be glad that it opens again and that it is available in terms of relief. That we do not yet know exactly what has happened or who is responsible for it, personally, reminds me of other issues that are not so much within the remit of this committee. In fact, 1,000 MW more to fight against waste is important, but the stakes we face do not allow us to cry out for victory as soon as a nuclear power plant is reopened, especially when there has been sabotage. Let me turn to the fourth question, that of interconnections. This is a bit the same question as that asked by Mr Vande Lanotte. In a situation of shortage, can export contracts be refused at any time? I think the answer is no. Interconnection is good. This makes it possible to have more liquidity, electricity that moves on the market. But more interconnections also means having greater import possibilities. It's also positive. However, this means that this is exactly the same measure for export. Therefore, if we have an enhanced interconnection with Germany, France, England or the Netherlands, these interconnections, as I know, go in both directions. So, even if we need more electricity than France, if the French buyer pays more than the Belgian buyer, the electricity will go to France. Can we include in our legislation, in the regulations, the possibility of limiting flows, essentially to exit, when we are in a situation of shortage or necessity? I'm afraid not! I understand that we do not have an answer today, but that seems interesting to me to know. How can we explain to our people that we have cleared three areas because we have sold 1,000 MW to France? Legally, it's possible. Legally, I don't see how we'd do anything else. But this is obviously not an easy message. Finally, the last question concerns binding measures. I think we need a text, a ministerial decree on this. We need a schedule. What is he? It seems to me more and more urgent. I'll recap it. First, the calculation of impact. Second, the general and federal measures and the list. Thirdly, the interconnection elements and the ability not to export in situations of shortage or necessity. Fourthly, the timetable for the regulatory text in relation to binding measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a very specific question about a specific dossier, namely Ghent. That is a regional dossier, but I still believe that this transcends the local level when I consider the impact. Madam Minister, if the switch-off plan is applied, Ghent would be deprived of power to a large part of the city, 747 streets and 96 000 inhabitants. Of course, that's much more than the city of Ostend. I therefore understand that Mr Vande Lanotte does not go to court to protest about this, but his fellow mayor of Ghent did, for all the right and reason. For the residents we can still make some income, but for the port of Ghent the consequences will be much greater. 180 companies would be cut off and the economic damage and image damage will of course be immense. In the meantime, two important steps have been taken. First of all, the city of Ghent and the port administration have gone to court. I have also put a question on this, but it could not be discussed until after New Year's. In the meantime, I know that this trial starts on January 7th, which is actually "morning." A second element is that, in application of the Annex to the Royal Decree of 3 June 2005, the Governor has initiated a procedure and has submitted to you an application to keep Ghent, with more specifically the port area, out of the exit plan. Did you get a chance to look at that file yet? Can you respond to the governor's request that, by applying the Royal Decree of 2005, an exception be provided for the port of Ghent? What do you think of Ghent's demand to remove the port area from the exit plan and thus not create dangerous situations for companies? That is the main argument for obtaining an exception. Moreover, it would be the case that started on 7 January 2015 without subject matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u35	I thank the various speakers. Madam Minister, we have an interesting exchange of views, although it has been cut down because of an agenda. Colleagues have asked many concrete questions. We hope and expect answers to all these questions. This is in any case the purpose of this exercise. Personally, I have a question that is more of a matter of substance. It was discussed in the discussion on the guidance note and the policy note and is related to production capacity. I would like to return for a moment to the question of Doel 1 and Doel 2. You have announced your willingness to table a bill on the government table, without giving an exact date and without specifying its content, that is, the duration of a possible extension. I assumed that we would no longer have the bill this year, even though I was asking myself the question. Don't you ever know! It's only December 16. Minister, what is your intention in this matter? Indeed, I read an article in De Standaard today which explains that our country remains dependent on capacity and production. If there is not enough capacity, if there is no sun or wind, there is a risk of lack of energy. The article says: "The government therefore wants to keep Objectives 1 and 2 open for a longer period. Minister for Energy Marie-Christine Marghem today, 16 December, presents a note on the core. So my question, Madam Minister, is whether or not you have put a note on the government's table today. Maybe we can get an answer? This is news from the press, an excellent and very serious newspaper. So, in the context of our debate on energy, I would like to add this small question to those of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u36	Mr President, I will try to respond to all the very nourished, interesting and relevant statements made by colleagues. I begin by responding to Mr Wollants. As far as your first question is concerned, I assume you're talking about capacity markets. I have already had the opportunity to talk to you about this at the presentation of the policy note last November, I believe.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u37	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u38	I thought that was your question. So I didn't understand your first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u39	Madam Minister, the point is that both TenneT and RTE France at some point wanted to free up additional capacity to help Belgium out of need. However, since this may distort the market, they have consulted the market players. I understand that yesterday it was announced that they will not be allowed to do so until the power stations in the Netherlands are shut down and then the French power stations are turned on. If that is not enough, it would only be possible to use the release of capacity on interconnection. I want to know whether this has an impact on our security of supply and on our situation. So that's actually different from the capacity market. The capacity market is for the future. We will probably discuss this a number of times in the coming months and years. However, this is specifically about this winter and the measures that have been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u40	Several questions revolve around the problem of interconnection. It is true that between the time I spoke to you in committee about 3,500 megawatts of interconnection capacity and the time when the Tihange incident took place, I was told that it was technically possible to mount up to 4,000 megawatts of interconnection to deal with the collapse that would have occurred had it not been caused by the fire on the Tihange 3 transformer. It surprised me myself, because I didn't know it was technically possible. Indeed, there is first of all a technical problem, which is whether the wires that connect us in interconnection can withstand so much power without heating up in a problematic way. This is possible for short periods of time; but this has nothing to do with this exceptional capacity that you have just mentioned and which is the result of equally exceptional contracts with TenneT and TEN, therefore with the Netherlands and France, which can only intervene when all the other methods have been used. I'm going to have an interview with Elia about this to try to understand what happened technically. During the incident that struck Tihange 3, I had a contact about every two hours with the officials of Elia and Electrabel to follow what was happening, what the damage was, how long they could be repaired, how we could supply ourselves in pieces and how we would move forward in the works. It was then that I began to learn and understand how Elia had reacted and how they had been able to use R1, R2, R3, including interruptible customers, and storage possibilities, and then, with the interconnection, they had been able to mount up to 4,000 megawatts on a point-by-point basis to compensate for the sudden loss of the power generation tool. I'm gonna have this conversation with Elia. I think it is very important and very interesting to understand what is possible, technically and legally, especially in relation to the evolution of our energy vision and energy mix for the years to come, particularly in the context of the existing projects that would link us to the 2018-2019 time horizon in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Germany in terms of interconnection; and that I can really look at this issue. Today, I can't answer you any further, but I, too, have been concerned about this difference. I think one of you mentioned this to me at some point in a committee question. I plan to discuss this with Elia in peace. As far as the market is concerned, this is your second question, I believe, we obviously want to study a new model for the distribution of energy sources. That's what I have to do in the medium and long term. This is part of, and is immediately linked to, what I have just said, the assessment of the situation, something that I cannot decree today. First, I do not have the technical, legal and historical infuse science of the file. I need, and this answers one of your questions about the relief plan, like you, to live this winter with the relief plan and see how this tool is used. Of course, it was at the base not intended for this need but it was eventually used to manage it. It has been seen in full transparency, I join you, by a campaign that was decided upon, which I also became aware of when I arrived, and which was actually launched before or almost when this government was set up. This has probably, I agree with Mr Wathelet's statement, a positive effect. The negative effects of panic are going to be smoothing over time. The aim is not to cause panic but to inform as much as possible, now that we have decided to inform. Such commissions are fundamental in trying to find all the answers to hundreds of questions that arise and which are reflected in me, too, in various letters. What is positive is that we realize that electricity generation is not infinite, that it is not something that falls from the sky or comes on a slamming of fingers, and that a coherent policy, thorough in the medium and long term, is absolutely necessary in relation to the legislative framework we know and to the exit from nuclear power, in order to have security of supply. Security of supply implies a certain redundancy, i.e. energy production in the territory exceeding the peaks observed in previous winters. I am just quoting the elements that were provided to me by Elia and my administration. DG Energy had published a report announcing electricity shortages for the winter of 2011, because the winter was going to be harsh and production capacity was not up to potential demands. In rereading the Tihange 1 documents and its 10-year extension, I found that reference was made to these studies, but not necessarily in terms of an immediate shortage. However, in 2011, we experienced peak consumption at 14,000 MW. I guess at the time, Elia did everything she could to make it look like nothing, mobilizing all her abilities to get past that course. This means, however, that we are still in a tense flow and that we do not have capacity that exceeds any consumption peaks. We also met in January 2013, as I reminded Mr Vande Lanotte. We had a peak at 13,885 MW. Again, we were able to cross the course, but it was just – depending on temperatures, interconnection capabilities, etc. So there is a real problem. And I am convinced that my predecessor here is particularly familiar with these extreme situations. I also believe that we still need to consider measures to obtain a safety mattress or redundancy, i.e. an overcapacity that can be mobilised calmly. In this way, we will no longer have to worry about it as a matter of urgency. Similarly, this may allow us not to overly solicit demand management on an ongoing basis. Having said that, I return to it, I observe positive elements – that is my point of view and I agree with yours. I am thinking of the desire to be sobriety in energy consumption. That is why we must integrate this attitude into our daily behaviour. In addition to being interesting for the bill, this obviously affects the management of total electricity consumption and production. Finally, this has an impact on the environment. That is why I believe that this sustainable behaviour has positive effects. With regard to the figures of Elias and the elements contested by the CREG, I would ask you to give me some time, because I still have to get an explanation of the technical, legal and economic environment of these figures and how these institutions reflect on these three fundamental aspects of our electricity production and consumption. I seem to jump from one question to another, but I connect the subjects with each other by following my reasoning. Has Elia taken into account the emergence of an economy and sobriety among the population from the publication of the relief plan? Did this organization even imagine, for seven days' notice, what this could produce? As I have already said, he believes that if all households behave well in their daily lives and if we step up the messages to reduce consumption within seven days when the temperature drops considerably, we could reach 500 MW. This could also be achieved by companies. If everything works well and if all the messages are correctly received and repeated, if everyone is attentive and normally careful and economical - with always interesting consequences on the bills - we could save a nuclear power plant. It's not bad at all!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u41	Even two power plants!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u42	Even two! I can do it! I'm continuing my reasoning. We will know the truth when we have lived it! But I do not wish at all to create panic or sleep or to make everyone fall asleep by saying that there is no problem and that we are in control of the situation. A problem is possible. We need to be careful and all the more so as we enter a more critical period, but it is possible to go through it, in particular through demand management. As far as the tranches are concerned, I have evolved in the assessment of this problem. I understood very quickly when I met with various stakeholders that tranche 6 had a marginal or manageable impact on the operation of the SNCB. From the moment I understood that, I thought there was something intelligent to do. For theoretically, without seeing the aspects of creating panic, uncertainty, malaise with each other and previous messages, I concluded, by going through all the texts, that there was no predetermined slice and that no text required us to choose a predetermined slice. I followed a theoretical reasoning...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u43	That's the communication you made!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u44	Yes, I understand, but the aim was not to oppose prior communication, I was starting from a purely theoretical intellectual reasoning by examining the texts and I quickly realized that this reasoning had its limits. Indeed, some people may estimate that they will be the first to be relieved in Band 6, while others may think that they will not be in Band 5 or 4 in the first place. I would also not want those in the other tranches to make any effort, not to feel concerned. For me, too, it was important. I want to continue to maintain the message that everyone is concerned and that it is a matter of national solidarity. If we save in Ostend, it's positive for Arlon; if we save in Brussels, it's positive for Tournai; if we save in Tournai, it's positive for Genk, etc. When I found that SNCB was an important consumer, of course I met with those responsible. Minister Galant and I have been working on this issue for several weeks to achieve this modus operandi, in any case, this agreement that the SNCB is participating, within the evaluation unit, which is located at the Federal Crisis Centre, in the development of the situation on D-1 day. In addition, Band 6 is not a highly impacting band for SNCB and can manage this aspect of things. In terms of train traffic, it has its own contract of consumption for motors, but all signals and level crossings are connected to the regional territory to all existing and managed stations and it was not possible for them to link all of these stations financially to their traction consumption of motors. So, we have to deal with this aspect of things and since tranche 6 is less impacting, I understood that a solution could be found first by proposing first the release of tranche 6 and by very closely associating SNCB at day J-1 (at 3:00 p.m. the situation with SNCB is assessed). The latter, for its part, proposed a series of energy savings to be achieved in the buildings and possibly by cutting off the heating on the trains to try to help the whole system pass the course. If, after all these efforts and the messages addressed to the public as well as the efforts of Elias on his own strategies, we do not yet move on to 18:00, the SNCB will decide to warn all users of the lack of train traffic for the next day. Of course, we know that. Earlier, I heard Mr. Vande Lanotte on several subjects; I will answer them later. It is obvious that one of the magics and difficulties of the sector is that energy is an element which is not stored, which must be consumed in its production and which, in a liberalised and therefore eminently complex market, must always remain in balance on the network to provide all the functions requested at all times in Belgium. If a large consumer does not consume for a whole day, it is obvious that we will earn MW and that we will avoid unloading for other consumers. This is one of the hard-to-explain effects, but it is the only thing to do: as long as electricity cannot be stored to meet the needs at all times, in a very fine way, stopping a large consumer offers a serious chance of avoiding discharge. What would you prefer? Of course this concerns 400,000 travellers, but also, downstream, a lot of functions: travel to the hospital, to get to work, for various needs. I therefore hope that if we inform preventively, through all possible and imaginable channels, travellers will be made aware and will be able to organize themselves to go to their occupations the next day. In the meantime, as long as the system allows us to know the redundancy of production in line with peak consumption in cold weather, as we knew in 2011 and 2013, we will have to live a moment in these conditions: this is a situation that I inherited. I am not the only one: the alerts were launched in April-June 2011 and the previous government was formed in December 2011. With respect to relief groups, the government indicated in its government agreement that it would make use of all possibilities, including federal relief groups. There are relief groups all over the country, and one of the fundamental benefits of transparency and the publication of this situation through the relief plan is that everyone has set themselves in order with regard to relief groups, including the federal state. Situations where rescue groups were outdated, insufficiently powerful or inadequate are being updated. I have requested a complete inventory of all the relief groups on the territory. I am helped in this by the Regions. As I said, and this concerns a hospital and I do not want to make this case a generality, I had the opportunity to visit the hospital facilities of Tournaise, close to my home. I had invited Maggie De Block so that she could take care of all the aspects that concern her. On that occasion, I was able to see that these infrastructures, merged into a single structure, had long since been updated with their rescue practices and instruments as part of the relief plan, to hold for a few hours, i.e. easily two to three hours. In addition, perhaps prompted to put the double bites through our visit, which seems to me to be a good thing, they had wanted to raise awareness throughout the hospital – patients, staff and visiting families – through the off/on campaign indicating the address of the site in order to allow to react and take action by informing each other. I enjoyed it. The port of Ghent is obviously very important. All the major infrastructures - SNCB, ports, airports - are extremely important in our territory. Of course, since I took office, I have received a lot of mail. The first one I received was the mayor of Ghent. He told me that two high-voltage stations, critical for the port, are in the unloading plan. They could experience the impact of the discharge. The mayor of Ghent explained the situation to me. Seveso companies are located in the industrial area close to the port, as well as a company that works just in time and assembles cars with very little stock. All parts arrive to be mounted directly and this can never stop. I understand all this. He told me about security issues with Seveso companies. A sudden stop is dangerous. But will it be a sudden stop? No, since we're warning. Companies must ensure that they have relief groups. Of course, we need to know how long this can last. Here I answer a question already mentioned in my introductory statement: normally we can re-feed within 2-3 hours. Companies must equip themselves with relief groups; it is a solution that I have already advanced. But he told me that he was bringing an application for interim relief before the courts. I received a copy of the introductory document and took note of it. I also received other requests from Liège airport and Charleroi airport, and of course I also took them into account. I note that in the meetings of provincial governors that take place on the first Wednesdays of the month and accelerate as needed, concern about this issue is increasing. We are entering the winter more and more certain. The governors of Hainaut, Liège and Ghent are concerned. I have already received letters from the first two and I expect to receive a third from the governor of Ghent. For the time being, I am evaluating the loss of megawatt savings if these infrastructures were removed from the relief plan. Let's be pragmatic. When I get the answer, I can take an attitude. That is the question asked by the governors. They are well aware of the situation. They inform me, depending on the tranches, about the important infrastructure put forward and undergoing an impact. These are delicate infrastructures that can experience many difficulties. A territorial balance must also be respected. Infrastructure must also be compared. The governors are in the process of thinking about these elements. I am encrypting these; the door is not closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u45	The port and regional airports?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u46	Yes, sir, I was talking about the port of Ghent and the airports. It's from Elias that I'm looking for and getting the encryption. We will see what are the "less" in terms of energy savings if we take these infrastructures out of the waste disposal plan. I will soon be informed and, no doubt, soon have to make a decision on this. It will be the only one, I repeat, and you agree. I will not change a plan in the midst of a battle, despite all the criticisms it can raise. On the other hand, for next year, I shall consider, including your concerns, the necessary changes. I will consult with the first interested parties, Elia and the provincial governors, especially since they will have played the role of relaying through the architecture of exchange of information and development of contingency plans with the municipalities in case of discharge. I will really have a lot of interesting information that I intend to use for the re-evaluation of this plan for the next winter. Here are my answers about the plan. Ministerial decrees prohibiting the lighting of motorways, municipalities and the exterior lighting of shops and/or riverfront houses are drafted and are ready for publication. My administration tells me that it would be interesting to publish them at the beginning of a notice period, at J-7. I think it's a little tricky because it's the holiday period. Imagine that there is a problem at the end of December or the beginning of January and that notice is given, I must have all my thoughts on the timeliness of the publication as well as on the interest in the communication. It is not just a matter of publishing, although I know that no one is supposed to ignore the law, but, to the citizens who already have to consult the website of DG Energy and Elia to see the savings to be achieved, I will not ask to consult the Belgian Monitor every day to know when the decrees will be taken. I'm not going to ask the mayors either. I have not decided, but I think it would be useful to publish them as soon as possible and to make them a communication. Mrs Lalieux, once the ban is taken and it is operational – the idea is to do it from 9 p.m. and not before...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u47	... it's a little late, the discharge plan normally stops around 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u48	It's the other way around, I've been wrong! You were listening! We'd be reconnecting from 9:00 p.m. If we were to cut, it would have to be during peak hours. If the mayors decide that they cannot do so for security reasons, they will assume their responsibilities. The federal ban will cover the entire territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u49	To understand, we turn on at 9 p.m. but what time do we cut?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u50	We cut during peak hours of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u51	We can't cut at rush hour! Are you going to tell J-1 we're not lighting the light that day?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u52	At 5:00, it's already dark. So we don't turn on at 5:00 p.m., we don't turn on at 6:00 p.m., we don't turn on at 7:00 p.m., we don't turn on at 8:00 p.m. and we turn on at 9:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u53	When you say that the mayors will take on their responsibilities, what does that mean? I'd like to make a clear communication to the mayors. You're saying they'll take their responsibilities if they don't execute a ministerial order.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u54	I'll say it again. It is provided for in the ministerial decree that the mayors may not take this measure if they consider that security in their territory requires that the lighting remains maintained. That's what's planned. It is respect for communal autonomy, I am sorry, and respect for the fact that the mayor is responsible for security in his territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u55	I understand the solidarity of all citizens. I've always argued for the Brussels people to be supportive and play the game. Our DRG is working to try to minimize in case he gets J-7. All work is done in relation to solidarity. I have been arguing in this direction from the beginning. Why do you put this in a royal decree that should be a source of energy saving? Mrs Fonck explained to us that motorways were not much. They are already extinguishing now, so I have no fear in this regard. Why do you take this as a priority and perhaps binding measure when you leave freedom to the mayors?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u56	I don't give the mayors freedom. They can get out of this for a reason, and it's the only one, which is public safety. There is communal autonomy. Legally, I can't go any further. We save very little on highways, but the municipalities are 250 megawatts. That's what I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u57	(...) public lighting. All public administrations, whether federal or regional...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u58	It's part of it, too...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u59	You didn't say...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u60	I didn't say, I only took your questions...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u61	We don't have the arrests...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u62	I've already talked about it. I have already said this in one of the two committees which concern either the general policy note or the budget note. There are three ministerial decrees: one concerns public lighting, another concerns federal institutions and the third concerns private lighting and the prohibition of the use of certain devices. Would you like to have them?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u63	Yes. It would be easier for communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u64	Once we have taken a position on the date of their publication, they will be communicated to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u65	Even if you decide to publish them later, we'd like to know them before.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u66	It's public lighting,...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u67	Federal institutions and private lighting. What exactly does this last point cover?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u68	Private lighting is outdoor lighting, e.g. shops. You can't impose yourself on people and ask them to turn off their Christmas tree.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u69	I was thinking about sports halls, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u70	Most of the time, they're public places.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u71	You're talking about banning the use of private devices. You can never tell anyone that he can't use his washing machine!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u72	There are limits. That's the same problem, Mrs. Lalieux. You can talk about it for hours, if it's fun. And I don't say that ironically.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u73	(...) My question was short and precise. I only ask for clear and concrete answers for the citizens. I don't play with this problem of undoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u74	Don't get mad, it's no use! I didn't do any rodomontades around Band 6. I explained to you what I had already explained.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u75	Tell me if I'm wrong. With regard to tranche 6, you have seen the information elements, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u76	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u77	Did you clearly decide that it was the 1st tranche?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u78	I understood that it would be the most effective and it's the one I'll propose for the removal.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u79	After slice 6, will you follow descending order – 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 – or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u80	There's no reason not to. Theoretically, it is logical and, in practice, it does not change anything. I realized during the debate with SNCB that it was the band that would have the least impact on SNCB. The other tranches will have an equivalent impact for SNCB, therefore for everyone. Since we have a rail network that is so good in our territory, it's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u81	It was a question, not a reproach. When I blame someone, know that it's different. So you will follow the following order: 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u82	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u83	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u84	The purpose of this exchange is to give answers and to understand them all in the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u85	Some need more alanguid answers, like a river. Other quick answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u86	Here, I think you have received a specific answer, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u87	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u88	The ministerial orders are ready, Mrs. Lalieux. They concern public lighting. Communal lighting, subject to communal autonomy, can only be reconnected according to this ministerial decree at 9 p.m. Every mayor will have to assume his responsibilities according to his estimate of security in his territory. Similarly, if the use of certain tools or machines by private individuals is prohibited in another ministerial decree, this obviously depends on their individual freedom. We don't have an eye from Moscow or smart meters, like in Italy, to check what's happening. With respect to federal buildings, on the other hand, we have a right-of-way and we can enforce this prohibition. I have not yet decided when the publication will take place. I think it would be useful if this could be done as quickly as possible in order to be able to communicate on this subject. But that's not my administration's opinion. As far as compensation is concerned, we have begun to study the situation. You know that in the area of compensation, there is a series of insurance contracts, whose capacity needs to be assessed, which can be taken into account and ensure that the risk of damage caused by a discharge is insured. However, it is important to know that a discharge is planned in advance and must therefore lead to the adoption of certain attitudes in order to avoid damage. Thus, there is already this assessment in relation to the theory of liability, where the person claiming damage must prove that he or she has done everything possible not to aggravate the damage. Second, a causal link must be established between the damage and the cause, and the cause must be identified, especially in this type of notified situation. Some compensation may be applied for people, businesses or infrastructure who would not find in their insurance contract grounds for compensation or full compensation for damage they would claim. There may therefore be trials in this area that will be debated before the courts on the basis of extra-contractual liability, that which is derived from articles 1382 et seq. and which works as I have stated. So, in terms of compensation, I can't tell you anything more. There is no compensation provided in the state by the Federal State for the possible consequences of the discharge for the correct and simple reason that this is not a sudden event. If it were a sudden event that could eventually be demonstrated that Elia has failed to properly manage the suddenness of all the strategies she has had for the long time in managing sudden events, perhaps compensation would be available. If it is a programmed event and one succeeds in identifying in the advance notice of such programming, any fault in the head of one or the other, perhaps there would be compensation. Apart from that, I do not see any other possibility of compensation in the context of the discharge. With regard to the problem of embankment, I knew that it was pomping in areas where there are bowls where the water is moving and represents a danger to the infrastructure. I also take this concern into account. In the event of an accident, i.e. in the event of an unexpected breakdown in the network, the intercommunal or the companies responsible for the removal call fire services or civil safety to use the pumps in order to provide for the capacity of their installations, unless they have generators. Twelve sites in Wallonia, eight in Flanders are critical. I take them, of course, into consideration. I will also examine whether or not they are equipped to cope with a few hours' unloading, whether they are well connected with the civilian security services that are nearby to deal with emergencies. The loss of potential savings that may occur, as a result of the removal of these facilities from the removal plan, will also be assessed. But for the moment, I do not have a specific request on this subject. You will find, in any case, that we have twenty critical sites throughout the whole territory in terms of demerger. The January 2013 figures I mentioned, Mr. Vande Lanotte, are visible. We have access to it quite easily. They are communicated via Elia's website. I even have in my possession a number of graphs that show how the balance between production and consumption is balanced and that allow us to know where we are when it's very cold, and that we are really at the end of our electricity production on the territory, and doing so in virtual deletion with regard to consumption. I believe that I have answered all the questions that have been asked to me with the exception of Doel 1 and Doel 2. Colleagues, as I said, this morning I submitted my note to Kern. The latter continues to think. And we are going to release this decision, which will be finalized this Thursday.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u89	This confirms that De Standaard, which is my favorite Dutch-speaking newspaper, is well informed. On the content, can you tell us more?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u90	Of course not.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u91	The coincidence of the calendars could have meant that important information could have been received in this commission during the exchange of views on the discharge. Are you done, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u92	About Doel 4, I met with representatives of OCAM. I'll meet with the federal prosecutor's office soon. I don't know exactly what you were told about the sabotage and reopening of Doel 4 in committee today. I will read the report of the committee. But, a priori, I don't have any specific problem with Doel going back, even if the investigation is going in parallel and has not yet been completed. This is a normal time frame for this kind of complex investigation. It started in August 2014. At this point, I really think I've gone through the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u93	Minister, we're going to take a second look to see if everyone has received all the expected answers. I will also go back to this article in the Standaard, but first I give the floor to colleagues to react. Thank you already for the clarifications you gave us.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u94	Mr President, I would like to speak to remind you of the unanswered questions. As regards the publication of tranches A and B, the sub-tranches, their cutting.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u95	I forgot to answer that question. You normally have access, at the DRM level, to all the details of the situation of a building in relation to a particular tranche.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u96	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u97	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u98	Mr Nollet, I will support the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u99	Do it! That's so good.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u100	I just did the test for the streets of Tournai.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u101	Mr. Delannois was worried about the roadway in Brussels... what about Rue Beyaert, Madame Lalieux?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u102	I didn't look.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u103	On this aspect, we will check, but so much the better, if things are now clarified.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u104	I was informed that this data had been available for more than a certain period of time. I already knew a large number of people who had inquired and who already knew very well in which slice they were in. Besides, you know you're in tranche 6.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u105	Yes, but as far as sub-thranches A and B are concerned, no. Today, it's here. Congratulations;
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u106	It's not my fault!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u107	Congratulations anyway. You did not address the imbalance for the central region.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u108	I told you that I was going to take into account in my reflection for next year the elements you were talking about with regard to the relief plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u109	Okay, no need to say any more. With regard to future threats of capacity closures, consider Recommendation No. 18 of the CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u110	Would you like to increase the facility's notice period?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u111	This is indeed one of the proposals of the CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u112	I'll discuss it with CREG. Today is 15 months. You want them to be immobilized a little bit more. This naturally has a price. Facilities such as this are not maintained without maintenance. Indeed, they must be kept on hold for a long time in order to be able to start them at certain specific times. This needs to be discussed. Be aware that I am ready to discuss this with the CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u113	What about the 5% slices?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u114	It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u115	At the hearings in committee, your predecessor, Mrs Fonck, had asked his administration for a legal reading of the ministerial order. At the time, Ms. Lalieux was presiding. She promised to let us know. But it happens that she received it the day she was no longer a minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u116	We didn't get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u117	I think I remember that Mrs Fonck gave it informally so that everyone could be informed. Can you ask the administration to forward it to the secretariat so that we can have it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u118	I'll ask for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u119	Mr President, once again I would like to thank the minister for her answers. Let me now turn to a few considerations. Minister, you acknowledged that the Order did not provide for situations of shortage and that it concerns cases of momentary and instantaneous interruptions. You also informed the committee about 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. This is a clear question for me, and I thank you for that. I have noted that you continue to see what you can do for the two airports that are not yet certain to be outside the clearance plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u120	And the port!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u121	And the port of Ghent. I was gonna say it. I understand that you still need time for the disputed figures. You see this with the CREG. I'll come back to it later. I have no problem with this because we have already pointed out a series of things. There's one thing left for me. I think that your idea of "redundancy" - a term that you used to say that you need reservations in case of peaks - has something necessary but also contradictory with the pure application of the law of the market. In fact, the market alone tends to create and manage the strained wire to have the best price. Madam Minister, I therefore invite you – because it is not in the short term – to reflect also on the limits on this aspect in relation to energy production which is a vital need. I will not say any more because I do not want to create an ideological contradiction, where there is no need for it. In conclusion, I would like to invite you to reflect carefully on the limits of pure application of the law of the market. I will return earlier to the working group to be set up with CREG for compensation. It's not your part, it's the part of the commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u122	Madam Minister, I wanted to go back to the end of Mr Nollet's intervention with regard to the ability to mobilise in the event of peaks. As you said, in a fully liberalised sector – you know what I think about the liberalisation of the energy sector, ideologically – having much more capacity in case of peaks has a cost, a huge cost. We must therefore do all these cost analyses before we can say that we must no longer act in a tense flow because it will cost all year round for all citizens, for businesses and for our competitiveness. Many notes have been written by Elia and CREG on this issue. I noted a positive element, it's the emergency group inventory. I hope that for the next winter, the inventory will be made with, each time, an annual request with an order of march and verifications. It's more than just an inventory to do. It must be ensured that these rescue units can function as appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u123	This inventory was made by provincial governors.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u124	I know you went to visit the hospital in Tournai. Your colleague Maggie De Block told you it was okay for all hospitals. I know that nursing homes are no longer the responsibility of the federal government. But the question is asked because you are the great coordinator with the Ministers of the Interior and the Economy. Is it certain that all hospitals in the country, and especially all nursing homes and nursing homes, have been given priority over the DRM? Will they be able to manage well?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u125	Hospitals are considered a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u126	Rest and care homes?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u127	Rest and nursing homes are a regional competence. There, the governors, together with the Regions, went around the issue and cared about it. I asked Maggie De Block to make sure for hospitals that this was in terms of safety and security measures, particularly with regard to emergency generators, emergency generators that all hospitals must possess. This can happen. They need to be able to manage emergencies, operating rooms, respiratory assistance. All of this needs to be checked. We are both very attentive to this problem. That's why we wanted to make this visit.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u128	I do think that putting in a royal decree something that no mayor will ever take at any given moment,... that's what Mr Wollants was telling me in part. No mayor will do it because at 5:00 p.m., security is important everywhere. I understand that. Perhaps more consultation with the Regions for the closure of regional establishments, communal administrations would have been more effective than establishing a situation where each mayor will invoke public order and security, fundamental in any city, commune or village in our country. I therefore do not understand very well the reason for this binding measure in the royal decree, in my view, inapplicable and unrealistic.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u129	As for what you are saying about the cooperation or not of the mayors, I would remind you that they are already aware of the collaboration, which is quite intense. Indeed, as early as last spring – perhaps a little late in relation to the risk of shortages already identified by extensive reports in April 2011 – in March-April 2014, the municipalities began to be made aware, more and more regularly, of this situation of possible discharge, in connection with their governor on their territory. I understand that this may seem theoretical. No mayor? I don't know, and we'll see. As far as the other solutions are concerned, I have not had the material time to start talks, since October, with all the communes in the territory to imagine other solutions, even via the governors. Objectively, I'm sorry. It's easy to say, but it's much less easy to do. Moreover, in the measures, a fundamental reflection is necessary: what is useful? What would save money? How much? You say that all the municipalities, in their town halls, would cut off electricity, heat or I don't know what. Is that possible? What would be the benefit? All of this needs to be studied. Thinking that with everything we had to do, we could imagine it, implement it and discuss it,... it's faster said than done. I am not saying that I will not continue this reflection in order, why not, to imagine other solutions. Nor am I saying that I am going to amend this ministerial decree, which had been conceived in advance, knowing that a probable saving of 250 MW had been identified. With regard to redundancy, the ENSOE group recommends having 20% security. So you're going to explain to me why the Netherlands is doing it in a market just as well...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u130	I'm not against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u131	I understand what you're saying. Theoretically, you're right. But why, in concrete terms, do they succeed in doing so?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u132	Because Belgium is in short supply and that is all its interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u133	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u134	It is in this sense that we need to organise a European energy market.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u135	Of course, you know that this is included in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u136	There is therefore no point in inventing an opposition on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u137	We agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u138	Madam Minister, I would like to add one element. I come back to this question Doel 1 and 2. I am trying to organise the work of this committee. We learned earlier that you had placed on the government table a note whose content is not known and whose content is not known. Earlier, I was wondering if a bill would come again this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u139	The answer is no. A decision for this year but no legislative initiative that eventually implements this decision this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u140	I'm trying to figure out how to plan the commissions for next January. I imagine that this essential problem will not be resolved by means of a parliamentary amendment to the programme law. Do you exclude him?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u141	They won't dare!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u142	I would point out that, in the context of the vote on the programme law, a package of amendments tabled by Mr Friart, the savior of the government's action, was introduced at the beginning of the committee. I was therefore wondering whether, on such an essential issue, the problem would be resolved by a parliamentary amendment, without the advice of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u143	You're giving me ideas, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u144	Officially, therefore, I ask the question. Are you considering it or are you excluding it? Minister, I would like to ask the question formally and have an answer in the report...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u145	Imagination is needed, and the president does not miss it!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u146	My question is, are you considering it or are you excluding it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u147	I'm not answering that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u148	Unnecessary provocation!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u149	Minister, will the government solve such a fundamental problem with an amendment to the program act? Do you exclude him?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u150	Mr President, let the minister organize the proceedings!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u151	Thank you, Mr. Nollet. I would like to join Mr Nollet in saying that it is probably a good thing to let me organize my work.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u152	Your work, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u153	Secondly, I will make proposals to the committee, of course, by warning you, Mr President. I'm not saying I'm gonna do it. But I still looked at the history of the extension of Tihange 1 and I saw that it was done through a government amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u154	(...) three and a half years after the decision. And after very long debates in committee!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u155	This is a very fundamental option.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u156	I didn't experience it, but I asked for a very accurate history of everything that happened to understand the situation. That's all I can answer today, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u157	So, you answer that you don't rule out solving the problem...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u158	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u159	All doors are open and all hopes are allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u160	There is still a parliament and it must be respected for such an important decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u161	That's right, Mrs. Lalieux. And I don't think I'm disrespectful of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u162	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u163	I didn't see a great-world objecting to the distribution contribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u164	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u165	If you give the answer, it's perfect!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic041x.u166	I believe that this is a debate that must be properly conducted between Parliament and the government. That's what we're trying to do. That's what we did this afternoon, anyway, on the clearance plan. Now, on the question as essential as whether or not the Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants should be renewed for X years, you have just answered that you do not exclude that this issue should be settled by a parliamentary amendment to the programme law, again this week, that is, this Friday, last meeting day, in theory, for this year. This is, in any case, a significant piece of information, which you have just delivered at the end of the meeting. In any case, I would like to thank the speakers, who have asked extremely concrete and relevant questions on the clearance plan. And I also thank the minister, who has given some answers, perhaps not all of them. In any case, clarifications were made when necessary. I think this debate was useful at the beginning of the winter. I would also like to point out that the full report of our work will be available on the site in a day or two. Everyone will be able to read it again and it will be accessible to the public, to the mayors, to the authorities, to anyone who wants to be interested in this issue. Thank you all for your participation.
