ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic014x.u1	Mr President, Minister, one of the fiscal fiscal measures adopted at the end of 2011 was the introduction of a special tax on the conversion of securities to bearer. That fee was due when the bearer's securities were converted into dematerialised securities or in registered securities. Their rate was 1% for the conversions that took place in 2012 and 2% for the conversions in 2013. This transposition was legally required by the Law of 14 December 2005 abolishing the bearer securities, which almost guaranteed the previous government that the tax would also be effective, had it not been that on 9 October 2014 in the Gielen case the Court of Justice condemned this tax for conflicting with the Capital Taxation Directive. This inevitably leads to the destruction of this tax by the Constitutional Court, which will enable all those who have paid the tax to recover it. The question naturally arises as to what effect this has on the budget, in particular on what financial year. The 2013 budget deficit was 2.9 %. This year we end up again close to 3% of gross domestic product. In any case, the tax administration will do everything in its power to register this year's revenue from the tax regularisations in the 2014 budget. Given that Belgium is expected to remain below the budgetary standard in 2014 and 2015, the European Commission has terminated enhanced budgetary surveillance. The Manual on Government Deficit and Debt Implementation of ESA 2010 does not explicitly address the situation in which a new tax is reversed. That is why I have the following specific questions. How much did this tax on the conversion of securities to bearer, respectively, in 2012 and 2013? If that amount is to be repaid, what financial year should that be allocated to? On the years in which the tax destroyed was registered or on the year in which the obligation to repay is certain? Finally, is there any chance that Belgium will be put back under enhanced budgetary surveillance by this refund?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic014x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Wouters, I would like to refer you to my colleague, the Minister for Finance, for a more detailed answer on the substance of the matter. I can give you some elements. Firstly, the EUR 3.7 million levy on the bearer's securities in 2012 and EUR 6.2 million in 2013. Secondly, as regards the application in ESA, I read out the ESA 2010 text in relation to court rulings: "Where a court orders that compensation should be paid or a transaction cancelled as a result of or in connection with past events, the relevant expenditure or income shall be recorded at the time when the claimant has an automatic and irrefutable right to a certain amount that can be determined separately, and it is likely that the claimant will claim the amount due. If the court finds only in principle that compensation has to be paid or if the claims have to be examined by administrative services in order to determine whether they are admissible or to establish the amount, the expenditure or income shall be recorded once the value of the obligation has been reliably established. The registration in the government accounts of the possible repayment will therefore have to take place at the earliest in 2014, the year of the judgment. Thirdly, given the limited size of the amounts, the issue will not have a direct impact on the application of the excessive deficit procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic014x.u3	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. A small EUR 10 million will therefore have to be repaid to the persons who paid the fee. I think it is a pity, because we see here that the previous government can make a decision to put its budget in order, while we now have to charge something on the 2014 or 2015 budget that is actually related to the years 2012 and 2013. I believe that we should review these ESA rules, because now we could be the victims of them. Fortunately, it is now about EUR 10 million, but it is about EUR 10 million. If we were to take a similar measure, which would require a much larger amount to be included in the budget two years later, then we would have to look at these ESA rules. Can we at European level consider whether this should be charged for the years after? Thank you for your detailed answer.
