ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u2	The discussion of the Government's statement is resumed. The discussion of the government statement is resumed. Mr Francken has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few days there has been a great deal of commotion about a number of statements made by me in the past. I realize I've hurt people with this. That was never my intention. I would like to apologize sincerely for this. I guarantee you that I will be Secretary of State for the good of all the people of this country, with great respect for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Francken. We take note of your statement. It will be your turn to discuss the Asylum and Migration hatch in a moment. Colleagues, as agreed, we will work out our list, starting with the Justice chapter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Justice, I am very pleased to see you, because I have been waiting all night for you to intervene. In my opinion, I went to sleep when you woke up. When I read the Justice component of the government agreement, I am surprised by the vagueness of its content. It is true that there are many declarations of intent: the government will consider such a matter, such a path will be considered by the government, but we still do not know what direction will be taken. At this point, we still do not know what to expect, nor do the citizens. From now on, as our group leader did yesterday, I would like to point out the extraordinarily managerial and security nature of this chapter. Obviously, the important thing is to make a figure, to have an extremely rapid justice – perhaps to the detriment of good justice, understandable by the citizens and accessible to all. Again, of course, it is necessary to finance all these measures that you have envisaged, since the Minister for Budget has announced that all departments will have to participate in the budgetary effort. Therefore, I suppose that of Justice is part of it. Yet the accounts of justice are in bad shape. I'm not saying it, but the Attorney General of Liège himself. We learn that there is a shortage of €90 million to cover the costs incurred by prosecutors and investigating judges in order to conduct their investigations properly. Therefore, before making promises, the budgetary feasibility of all these measures should be considered. Access to justice is a very important element because, as we know, it is problematic for more disadvantaged people. However, the government's agreement is also very vague in this regard. You're considering a number of avenues. You propose that people who are less well off prefer alternatives to legal proceedings, such as mediation or conciliation. You know that my group has always been in favour of this, but do we have to understand that only the rich will have access to the trial? Your main proposal to finance legal aid is to promote legal protection insurance. All right, but still, insurance has to play the game. So far, in criminal and family matters, they have refused to do so. I am surprised that legal aid is one of the few points for which the government agreement provides for a budget line since the envelope is kept closed. However, you are aware of the problems encountered during the previous legislature with increasing demand in parallel with the value of the points that is decreasing. Lawyers don't know what to expect. Legal certainty should be ensured. I would also like to recall that the MR promised additional resources to get out of this closed envelope. Another way is to introduce a moderator ticket. This point is pretty blurry. We do not know whether exemptions will be provided, as advocated by the Council of State. Are you planning amounts that will change depending on the financial situation of the beneficiaries? What about the reasonableness of the contribution that allows each individual to defend his or her interests? Also in order to finance access to justice, it is planned to create a fund financed by convicted persons. However, we are well aware that those convicted of criminal offences are often disincentives, that they must also contribute to the Fund for Victims of Intentional Acts of Violence, that they must compensate the civil parties and, ultimately, that they will eventually have to contribute this fund to finance legal aid. That is why I am really afraid that these measures will remain powdered and that this fund will not be able to feed the legal aid funds. My second point concerns the criminal justice component. For me, without surprise, this aspect has little ambition; it is considered from a strictly safe angle and is likely to be very expensive. It was announced that, in order to address the backlog, changes would be made to the procedure to make it faster and more effective. Minister, what does this really mean? Is there any possibility of legal action or of appeal to a second instance? As part of this procedural reform project, various committees will be set up. As it is original: we have already known the Legros Commission for the Criminal Code and the Franchimont Commission for the reform of the Code of Criminal Investigation. Shouldn't we be making concrete progress? In criminal justice, you have planned to introduce security periods. Are such periods not useless? First, the parole law already exists; secondly, it would be tantamount to denying the responsibility of the enforcement court – created for such cases, i.e. for persons sentenced to several years of detention – to decide whether to make the government available, a power of its own. These safety periods are counterproductive. They are not intended to fight impunity or to better protect citizens, since people are prevented from evolving and changing. We're not going to hold her accountable. We will only cause despair in some people because they will have no prospect of the future. We will not work on their reintegration if, for example, the possibility of leaving prison is envisaged in thirty years. Your agreement is clearly based on their inability to amend themselves, to integrate into our society. It's dramatic. These are populist measures that, according to experts, have never proven their effectiveness in combating crime. We also know that early release is accompanied by social supervision that allows the person who has served his or her sentence not to be deprived of the world that he or she finds after years in prison. If I repeat the equation, I would say that there are more penalties in your agreement, less rehabilitation, more overcrowding. You have also considered the construction of new prisons. We all know it's very expensive and it never solved the problem of prison overcrowding. So, apart from the construction of prisons that we know are not the miracle solution, nothing is really foreseen in the agreement to fight overpopulation. In addition, two other points will receive our attention in this Parliament. First of all, the reform of the judicial landscape could call into question the essential acquis, namely the proximity of justice and the justiciable. Secondly, I will mention the creation of a single court to bring together the court of first instance, the commercial court and the labour court. The return of this "major court" could also have the effect of removing the specificities of the labour court. I will be particularly careful to avoid these pitfalls which would constitute a frontal attack on all workers and their interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u6	Mrs De Wit, you have the floor and your speaking time is ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u7	Mr President, I will do my best. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the previous legislature, I have often been in the Chair with many questions, comments and suggestions about justice. I often had the impression that I was preaching in the desert. However, I was wrong, because apparently that was not the case. Evidently, elements were picked up, our group apparently had a lot more supporters than I thought at the time. This is reflected in the coalition agreement before us today. We asked and asked for a Justice adapted to the 21st century, which has been going on for a number of years now, a modern, efficient and decisive Justice. We asked for an effective criminal policy, good criminal law, simple criminal proceedings, better execution, and that is what is happening now because of a lot of measures. In this context, I am thinking, for example, of tackling the limitation period and the procedural errors. I must not tell you all that when a procedural error occurs, the media and the whole country are turned upside down. People don't understand that anymore. Even though I'm a lawyer and a lawyer, I'm not gonna be able to explain it anymore. Our group has always insisted on simple procedural rules. Once the reaction was that this brought with it a lot of work. In fact, we did not get much further than the Landuyt law, the act of legal proceedings. Now it's gonna be different. There will be no further automatic annulment of procedural errors. A committee of specialists will even clean out the nest of procedural rules and nullities. That is an approach at the source, as we have always asked. Another committee will be able to create a new Code of Criminal Procedure, or modernise and simplify that Code. That's a lot of work, but it has to be done. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still working with the Napoleon Code today. How old is he? There can now be faster, simpler procedures. This also allows for faster reactions, which can limit the recurrence and reduce procedural errors. We asked, it is in the coalition agreement. There's gonna be a new penal code. New forms of crime and the phenomenon I'm thinking cybercrime. Other and more appropriate sanctions must be introduced. There must be a better relationship between the degree of punishment and the crime. I hear the lady say that they may have to face their punishment in 30 years' time. No, it has to be different and faster. The relationship between the theoretical, the pronounced and the executed penalties should be more correct. The penalty palette must be extended for this purpose. It is in the coalition agreement: a punishment will have to be a punishment again. We'll put the penalty measure back in the hands of the judge. There won't be any more rerouting letters. In the previous legislature, I have very often stressed the need to convert the short sentences from four months to three years automatically into electronic surveillance, which was even less than one third of the length of the prison sentence from eight or nine months to 31 days ET, for example, will no longer be there. It won't be possible anymore. The judge will now determine which sentence will be served effectively. That's what it's supposed to be, that's the separation of powers, that's what it's called. The court will also be able to impose a security period for serious facts in which no conditional release will be possible. The judge decides what the effective punishment will be. That actually goes beyond the Lejeune Act. We asked for a entanglement, it's in there. We want to speed up criminal proceedings. We do not want to have to wait years for a verdict and wait years for the sentence to be served. What kind of signal does that send? I understand the despondency of the judges. It is not just a lick-on policy, it is also a question of dealing with repetition and legal certainty. I had the privilege of not knowing whether I should call it a privilege to sit in the Chamber a few years ago when an Antwerp judge said that he could not be convicted for force majeure because the Belgian State is doing nothing. The accused stood there for the third or fourth time, for similar facts. He'd been punished for a lot of months, but nothing of that had been done. The country was upside down, there was commotion. This despondency, we must do something about it. There will also be courtrooms in each arrondissement. We asked, it's in there. Better collection of fines, Mrs Özen, could perhaps be a solution to pay the bill of justice. One thing is to write off penances, and collect them is another. Well, that's what it says. We wanted a long-term view of the prison system, not only on the buildings but also on the people. The basic law on inmates, how long has it been postponed? When will it be effective? Well, we will ensure that it is done now, with a detention plan and with attention to the integration and parole of those concerned. That's what it says. The Central Prison Supervisory Board will come under Parliament's control, it's in it. Video conferencing in prison should be possible. That pilot project will be launched. It's safer and cost-effective. That's what it says. It also includes the guaranteed service provided by the penitentiary staff, in consultation with the sector, of course. For example, the prisoner can continue to exercise all his rights, which is now being used during a strike. Especially the police will be able to be back where they belong, on the street. It's in there. Separate wings for certain heavier criminals. That's what it says. We did not just ask for measures on criminal policy, we also asked for an efficient justice system, an efficient judicial organisation. The start has been made. The reform of the judicial landscape has been launched. It has to be finished now. The start has been taken, although it has been a difficult start. We will review progress and, if necessary, adjust it. The unitary window, better access to the Registrys, trial law of the unitary court, the people on the ground are asking for it. We asked at the time and now it says so. How will we deal with the legal backlog? We will do this through alternative dispute resolution, which can also be cost-effective for Justice, through rapid law, through rationalisation, through simplification. We are working on this together with the magistrates, in consultation, through the framework of justice and the various actors, through computerisation through the electronic platform. We must not go on whining about who is allowed to do what project, but we must simply do it. It can't be that hard. The smallest child gets everything sent by e-mail, but the Justice Department doesn't succeed. Well, that's what it says. Mrs Özen, that might save us 20 million in port charges. That is where the solutions for financing better justice lie! A work load measurement, which was stopped for a long time, will also be introduced. It's in there. There will be better cooperation with police, with OCMWs, with administrations, with assistance to find solutions with the people on the ground, with the victims and their families, of which pilot projects already exist. It's in there. A justice department that pays her bills on time. It's in there. Suppliers are also getting better, because now this leads to bankruptcies, a social cost that we all forget. Justice needs a fair pro-Deo system. You are right, everyone must have access to justice, everyone is entitled to it. The budgets must go to the people who need it very much. What does that mean? Not only to create a new nomenclature together with the counters, what is and must be done, but also to ensure sustainable financing. We can do that by tackling abuses that everyone knows are there. I have done a lot of pro-Deo files myself with pleasure and conviction. I've had clients in front of me who made 50 euros too much to qualify for a pro-Deo attorney. I've had clients before me who did get a pro-deo attorney, but the Mercedes were at the door. That has to be done, the abuses have to come out, all the revenues count. If that is not enough for funding, Mrs Özlem, there is still the Legal Assistance Fund, similar to the Victims' Fund. Anyone convicted will make a contribution, not every taxpayer, but the offender will pay. It's in there. We also want justice with a view to our society and our weak. That is to say attention to the interned, adapted infrastructure, separate specialised chambers at the criminal court, gradual assessment of insanity persons, a centre for observation and diagnosis, POKO. It will sound familiar to you. This is a 1999 Royal Decree which was never implemented, but now we are dealing with this problem. It's in there. Attention to the victims is essential. That is to say, better enforcement of the ban on housekeeping in intra-family violence, a DNA database for suspects, for example, of sexual crimes that will speed us up, simplified procedures for the Victims' Fund, better communication between victim and court, an accessible language. We have already asked this during the previous legislature, measures have been taken for the victims, and now this is on top of it. It's in there. A modern family law, a modern family property right, a modern inheritance right with rules for care children, foster parents and new forms of society. Is that what you expected from a conservative party? It's in there. To sum up, there's food and drink in here, ladies and gentlemen. Many things that are extremely important to us are contained in this agreement. Not everything, I admit, there were some things that we would have wanted, that's right. This only shows that N-VA is able to compromise. We are confident that there is a plan here that can finally lead justice into the 21st century. After a very long journey through the desert and swimming through a red sea, we finally see an oasis for Justice. Our group will ensure that this oasis does not become a mirage. Mr. Secretary, I was taught by you once. I look forward to working with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u8	Would you like to delete that? May I ask the competent services and the military police to intervene? This isn't supposed to be in the hemisphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, Minister of Justice, I would like to congratulate you on your appointment. I understand that it was really your choice, that others were also interested in the same functions, but that you fought to get them, you and your party. I take it from this that we will have a minister who wanted these powers and who will therefore live up to the burden. Since he is also a minister who knows the figures well – you were Minister of Finance – I was well aware that we would perhaps have the figures to really appreciate the government's willingness to manage this department, of which you know he is one of the most affected in our Kingdom. If there are not many figures, there are many intentions; this sometimes makes it difficult to distinguish between what is sure and what is intended in this agreement. I see at least one thing: a break from the previous government which said that in the area of justice and police, the budgetary efforts that must be made will be spared them. I hoped to find the same information in this government's statement. In vain! I found on page 110 of this agreement, however, I quote: "The government will have to ensure that there are operating savings in the management of the Judicial Order in order to optimize the resources available." Of course, there can be waste and we can try to hunt there, but I do not see the budgetary will on the part of this government to ensure that justice, which is one of the essential pillars, one of the three powers of the nation, can live decently. I'm obviously worried about it. Minister, in the government agreement, there are a number of positive things. These are the usual wills expressed by all successive governments. Computerization, the fight against the backlog of cases, the importance given to mediation, the full range of judicial officers, the willingness to reform legal aid, the acceleration of justice, the reform of the Criminal Code or criminal investigation, the assessment of the scale of penalties in relation to offences and the introduction of alternative penalties, all of which we have already seen on numerous occasions. So we are still in the catalogue without figures, without concrete measures! On the other hand – and I deeply regret it because I thought that the change of minister could also have brought about a change of approach – the managerial approach of Justice, which was very prominent in your predecessor Ms. Turtelboom, is as much in this government statement, as if it were expected of Justice to be run as a classic business dedicated to profitability as any other business. This is obviously not possible, and I think that, as a lawyer and a lawyer, you are the first to believe that. In your statement, there is nothing – and that is worrying, unless it is in the precise line of this so-called right-wing government that we are told – really nothing about the fight against economic and financial crime. God knows, however, that if there are ways to go for the financing of justice – you even speak in your government's declaration of self-financing of justice – it is in the context of these issues. Not a word in your government's statement. Mr Minister, I have also not found a word – and I am concerned about the finances of the Communities and the Regions – on how the human or financial resources will be made available to the houses of justice whose collaboration or consultation is being sought in order to put in place a whole series of alternative measures to confinement, with which I obviously agree. It is not enough to say this at the federal level, it is known that the competence is to be exercised at the level of the federated entities. How are you going to help them carry out this policy, which in itself is an interesting policy? Nor have I found any measure relating to the correct and lawful use of pre-trial detention. Not a single word. However, you know that one of the sources and one of the causes of our overcrowding is the abuse of pre-trial detention. It's obvious. This is noted by all experts and stakeholders in the judiciary. And I did not find more funding for what is also an interesting measure: the means of amicable settlement of conflicts rather than the judicial route. It's a good measure, but how are you going to finance it? I don't see a budget line on that. I also have a few fears and questions, as well as concerns about some of the points in this agreement. Overall, this concerns access to justice. Such access is a fundamental right, a constitutional right, a right that must be implemented by all those who, at one time or another, consider it useful to assert their rights or what they consider to be their rights before an impartial tribunal. For the poorest, there is, among other things, legal aid. For years, in this Parliament, there has been a consensus that legal aid, as it works today, is no longer possible, that we are going straight into the wall, that we need refinancing, a new approach, a nomenclature somewhat different from that which exists. During the previous parliamentary term, I often heard a member of the majority – today a minister who could have become Minister of Justice – tell us and plead regularly in favour of an open and unclosed envelope for legal aid and for a point value of 30 euros. Mrs Marghem, who was here some time ago, has consistently titillated Mrs Turtelboom in relation to this. Members of the Justice Commission are witnesses to this. I find nothing in your government statement except to maintain the idea of the envelope closed without any idea of the value of the point either. In other words, we certainly have not solved the problem of legal aid with this statement. I sincerely hope, Mr Minister, that the work of the Justice Committee will make it possible to find an adequate solution to what is a real problem not only for lawyers who are responsible for dealing with and managing this legal aid but also for those who are entitled to it and who are also a way of accessing justice. In this respect, I believe that the other element in your government statement, namely the introduction of a moderator ticket, will be very quickly impracticable. With regard to access to justice – compared to this middle class, which has been widely spoken of since the government's intentions were known – if through legal aid a form of access to justice is maintained, if people with relatively comfortable and important incomes can continue to access justice, what will happen again with the middle class? She is the only one, at one time or another, who sometimes has difficulty paying for a whole series of services. What is being proposed here in judicial matters? After VAT on lawyers' fees, we are now talking about an increase in the fees for registry and scheduling. I would remind you that the previous government had already increased the fees for registry and scheduling two years ago. Your government's agreement and the budget tables finally obtained provide for an increase in these fees for registry and scheduling; and not a small increase: an increase of more than 50%, Minister. From an amount of around 41,000 euros in 2014, the 2015 draft budget increases to 61,000 euros. Who's going to fund this again? They'll be the litigants. I made a small calculation. This will mean that today the mere fact of initiating proceedings before the court of first instance will cost 150 euros; and before the court of appeal 315 euros. This not to mention, when there is a summons by way of justice, the costs of bailiff, costs of citation which have also been increased in the past. There is a real concern about access to justice by the middle classes and the working classes. You're talking about creating a legal aid fund. I think, Mr Minister, that the creation of a legal aid fund, Mrs Özlem, also mentioned it, is a chimera. We know that criminal convicts are not the ones who will be able to feed this fund. As Minister of Finance, you know the difficulty you had in recovering the criminal convictions. Would it not be better to think about feeding such a fund from civilian expenditures? I must mention another concern about the change in the powers of the Supreme Council of Justice. Far from the idea that the institution should not be reformed, but that it should be regulated either by an internal body within the FPS Justice system or even by a parliamentary committee, it is in jeopardy – and I hope that it is not your intention – that the independence of the judiciary is guaranteed by the Constitution. Finally, Minister, a whole range of other elements should be open to discussion. I hope that on the occasion of the first meeting of our committee, the questions that we can put to you and the exchanges of views that we will have with you, we will be able, as is often the case in the Committee on Justice, to find solutions that bring together all parliamentarians, which sometimes come together beyond partisan divisions or debates, because Justice is a real public service for all our citizens and must necessarily remain so.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, any citizen may one day have contact with the judicial institution: following a neighbourhood conflict, a family conflict, aggression, violence against him or her, a dispute with the state or its commune, except of course the one in Crisnaeus. A rule of law that respects itself must have independent justice, effective justice, prompt justice and justice that its people understand. The declaration of government that we were able to discover, I find it exciting. As Mr Brotcorn has said, the Committee on Justice has this special feature of being a place of debate where political divisions can often give way to the general interest. And the debate, often, is conducted from the positive perspective of public service. In fact, it is not uncommon for amendments from both sides to supplement a mechanism as taken up by a government project or a proposal from one or more parliamentarians. In this government statement, Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, I want to highlight seven points that are particularly important to the MR. Too often it is said that the policy acts as a matter of urgency and forgets to follow up on the decisions taken. A good example is the reform of the judicial map. It was voted a few months ago. Many concerns were expressed; not all judges and justice actors were necessarily in favour of such reform. Minister Turtelboom had promised to take stock of this reform, a commitment reiterated in the government statement. It is important that, very quickly, we can see what worked in all the boroughs and what worked less well and why. The second important point is the backlog. I am pleased to read that from now on, the objective is that, in the year of referral, a judgment be given, whether in the first degree or in the second degree. It's also something we've been talking about for a long time, Mr. Brotcorne. There is no magic wand to reduce the backlog. We must tell the truth: the means are not extensible at will. Consideration must therefore be given to mechanisms that would enable this backlog to be resolved. The first thing I want to emphasize is the grooming of procedures. Our society is evolving. In the 1990s, some procedures and others were applied in the 2000s. I take a very simple example: divorce by mutual consent. In the 1990s, the procedure required three appearances before the judge. All this has evolved well; it saves time and energy, both for the judicial institution and for the litigants. As far as computerisation is concerned, it has long been discussed in this country. This is not a total success, nor a total failure. Mr. Minister, it would be interesting to have a full review of this computerization in a timely manner. Indeed, I understand that there are still too many disparities in the courts and tribunals. It is therefore desirable to know exactly the situation and why it continues not to work as it should. We have also talked – it is important for the citizens – about mediation, which helps to reduce the congestion of the courts, to regain a lost harmony between the citizens. Indeed, it is well known that one of the collateral effects of a period of crisis is a congestion of the courts because people experience greater difficulties and tend to find themselves in conflict situations. I am thinking here of debt mediation, mediation in the context of acts of violence, etc. Mediation can have a particularly important effect in this area. This is how I come to the procedure of "pleading guilty" which is a novelty for our country, but which other countries, such as France, have already adopted. This must be the subject of a wide-ranging debate, as this procedure is similar to that of confessions. The Justice Committee would have much to gain from having a calm debate on this project. Why? Because from the moment when the "guilty plea" intervenes, the number of procedural acts is limited, de facto leading to a de-congestion of the institution. Access to justice – others have mentioned it – remains an essential element. Everyone must have access to justice. There is also a need for accountability. Some people, regardless of the social category to which they belong, tend to go too quickly to court. This accountability is, in my view, particularly important. This is why the mediation mechanism should be used more extensively. This is already the case before the justices of peace. This possibility should be further emphasized. The moderator ticket will also be discussed. It's important. That was one of the MR's proposals. We'll be able to talk about it. It is also useful to recognize the intellectual work of lawyers. I would like to speak here, for a moment, on the question of pro deo lawyers. There have been too many problems at this level in recent years; strikes have even been organised and this is penalised. The work of lawyers must therefore be recognized. If the moderator ticket is recognized in medicine, why is it not recognized at the lawyer level? As stated in the government statement, what will honour justice is that its actors are paid within a reasonable time. It is not normal for experts, who put their expertise at the service of justice, to be paid with a delay of two years, which may put some of them in difficulty. It is not normal for prison doctors to be aware of such a situation. We have all been arrested by these particularly discouraged doctors, especially at the Nivelles prison, but so attached to their profession that they continue to perform the service while knowing that they will not be paid within a reasonable time. Important work must therefore be done in this regard. The reform of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Investigation is important. We signed a resolution under the former legislature to address this issue. The Penal Code dates back to 1867. You'll agree that it's an outdated architecture. Since then, new developments have taken place, new morals are in place. We feel like we've added boxes to the boxes, which gives us an inverted pyramid that no longer holds the road. The debate on the reform of the Criminal Code is necessary and, in my view, must be based on two areas. We need experts, Mr Brotcorne, in particular to avoid acts that would prove impossible in the organisation of a society. Expertise is important. But this debate also affects the people. What fact does it deserve? And what penalty should be assigned to what fact? I remember the definition of my course in philosophy of law: "Law is the ability of pressure by threat of sanction".
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u11	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u12	I suffered with Lucien François but I succeeded, not without evil. I have always lived in this definition because I consider it to be the key element of law. A reform of the Criminal Code, following an open discussion with experts in the Justice Committee, will make sense. Next point: assistance to victims. It has been several years since, under the impulse of Mr Malmendier and others, gradually, the victims finally felt heard. It starts very quickly, with the police, with the judicial services. A victim is necessarily totally weakened. In my opinion, we never do enough to accompany them, listen to them and make them feel heard and oriented. This is often the main frustration. This is much better, but the work is unfortunately unfinished. Prison overcrowding is a problem, as we know. The reform of the Criminal Code will provide an opportunity to consider whether "all in prison" is the right formula or whether, as has been done in the past, it is interesting to foresee something other than imprisonment. The electronic bracelet, probation, public service work are all elements that make people no longer go to prison, remain in semi-freedom and can eventually – hopefully – have a positive reintegration. These two debates are therefore linked. Finally, Mr President, if I may, I would like to take a very small second out of the justice debate and talk about well-being at work. First of all, I would like to thank all the staff, who have worked a lot these days. Wait till you see what I'm getting at. We have an efficient staff here, for example translators who translate perfectly. We all have the video means – the best in the world – and the people who make us friends to watch us on TV or on the internet feel like we are in extraordinary comfort. I can tell you that for observing what has happened since yesterday, two organs have suffered: the voice and the ears. Mr President, for the 2015 budget, could you not foresee – and this is the old disc-jockey talking to you – a correct sound? It is indeed very difficult here to hear and speak in order to be heard by all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u13	Mr President, Minister, the statement raises a number of questions, but there are too many of them to bring them to plenary. Today, my group will only have one. Le premier ministre nous a dit hier: "Justice is an essential task. It is therefore an essential task of the State. How are you going to reconcile this statement with your desire for self-financing of Justice, which suggests a certain disengagement on your part? I hope you can reassure us about the fate of this department.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u14	Mr President, I am a little surprised to see a catalogue of good intentions in the government statement and, at the same time, to see the structural underfunding that will be guaranteed for this public service which should normally be able to enjoy much more resources. We're talking about a closed envelope here. I think we are in an increasingly dangerous spiral of two-speed justice. I will even dare the expression "class justice" where one can see that the less fortunate have less and less access to this public service. In this government statement, I am surprised to see the proposal to keep VAT on legal fees at 21%, whereas if there is a basic service, it is the right to justice. Let me also share a concern about this desire to centralize certain courts and, in particular, to endanger the Labour Court, which I believe is of primary importance in Belgian law, particularly by the presence of trade union actors in judgments. What is your vision of the role and place of the Labour Court under your legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the interesting questions. Under the rule of law, it is important to underline what is stated in the government statement, as Mrs De Wit did, and what is not in it, as Mr Brotcorne did. As regards both one and the other, I would like to say that everything contained in the declaration of government is the result of the collective will of the four parties and that they have held a very long and quiet meeting on this matter. Law is a question of balance between many different factors. The first element on which many questions have been raised is the reform of justice. In this respect, the new government must strike a balance between continuity and change. There is no point in changing the direction of a reform that was only adopted and initiated a few months ago. The field is sufficiently mobilized to accept the reform. It has sufficient support, but to implement it will require a great deal of time and good will. In this sense, I would argue, including with regard to the Committee on Justice, that we should give the reform, in cooperation with the magistrate, the opportunity to have a happy ending. We have been trying to reform the judiciary since 1995, but the reform is likely to come to its final conclusion by 2020. As I said, justice is a question of balancing. I have also heard a lot about a balance between the independence of the judiciary, which is essential, and the responsibility of the judiciary and a balance between autonomy and limited forms of control. In my view, the management contracts which the Ministry of Justice will be intended to conclude with the Colleges of Attorneys General, Headquarters and the Court of Cassation will enable the judiciary to take the necessary steps for good justice. Of course, this autonomy and its control will go through several phases before reaching the goal that we all have in perspective. In particular, collaboration between local steering committees, our provinces and boroughs, on the one hand, and these Headquarters Colleges and Attorneys General, on the other hand, will be essential. It will have to be the subject of very detailed management contracts which will mirror the management contract to be concluded at the federal level with the three Colleges. I come to the issue of justice today, to which Mr Brotcorne referred. Mr Brotcorne, this is a balance between managerial and expertise. Everywhere, experts, professors, magistrates, finance specialists are dealing with managers that we need. In fact, if the judiciary is given autonomy in its management, the first question is whether it has the competence to be sufficiently managerial in terms of costs and management. The balance between these two aspects is difficult to achieve, I recognise. The Department of Finance faced the same problem with the major tax experts and those who managed their expertise. I repeat that this is a difficult balance. I was personally confronted with the problem. But it is necessary, in particular – this aspect has been stressed by Mr Goffin – in the field of information technology. Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, my first contacts with the administration lead me to believe that we are on the right track to create the crossroads that we have long been waiting for, between all the existing computer systems and those that are being manufactured. So we must not despair. I really feel that the administration of justice is in charge and is making considerable progress. Many of you have talked about the balance between what I would call, on the one hand, the right to justice, the public service of justice, which is particularly important, and, on the other hand, the fear of the instrumentalisation and overconsumption of the law. Everyone must have full access to justice, regardless of their rank or status and regardless of their financial resources. The worst thing is that people who can afford it often also gain access to justice, just to harm others or harm them. The instrumentalisation of the law and the misuse of procedures are matters to which we must oppose. In this sense, I fully understand the Members who are calling for access to justice that is free and cheap. However, I am abhorred by the abuse of procedures to harm other people. I'm getting to a different balance now. The balance between speed and efficiency of justice. In Dutch, it is called "de gepaste voortvarendheid" and the rights of defence. It is clear that this balance is a very delicate balance that must be respected as far as the rights of the defence are concerned, but it is also clear that when you want a court that renders decisions in the short term, you need to ask yourself from time to time about the procedure, the degree of appeal that some people think they need in procedural matters, etc. This balance, I know, is the most delicate, especially for all those who have studied law. At the same time, it is necessary to make accept, even by the jurists, that from time to time, speed has value as such. The next difficult balance that many fellow Members have addressed is between affordability and quality. Justice is a public service. We all know that justice costs the State less than public health, while good administration of justice for a society is almost as important as public health and, in the eyes of many, even more important. Justice costs less and, in that sense, I understand who says that it cannot be shortened. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that a lot of efficiency gains can be made in the FPS Justice and Magistracy. I've spent the last few days looking at the costs. Reference was made earlier to the statements by the Attorney General of Liège, Mr De Valkeneer, in a financial and economic newspaper on late invoices to the Justice Department. There is, of course, a cause for those late invoices. The reason is that the seat and the standing magistrate can order all kinds of costs without the FPS Justice being aware of them. The FPS Justice Department is only aware of half the invoices he pays. All other invoices are the result of independent decisions by magistrates. It is therefore obvious that, in the very short term, the administration is in the process of developing a system that immediately informs the FPS of the costs incurred in any district. This will allow for a minimum budget. Today, a court of inquiry can order the dredging of the Brussels Canal without anyone knowing and without any provision being made for it. As far as affordability is concerned, questions have also been asked about legal aid, closed envelopes and the point value. As far as legal aid is concerned, I believe that we should be as generous as possible, but we should fight against overconsumption. At the expense of the legal aid system, the law cannot be instrumentalised, either by persons seeking legal aid or by lawyers. With me, I've been interrogating about the registry rights. In my view, by harmonizing registry fees, we can do good, without violating or impairing access to justice. I have heard concerns that the government's statement provides for greater self-financing of justice. We all know that Belgium is one of the countries where the self-financing of justice is among the smallest. Take the example of Austria, which is part of the Council of Europe. So I think it's a developed country...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u16	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u17	No, dear colleague, but for example, the self-financing rate is 74%. I dare not say the percentage applied to us, but it is much smaller. For this reason, we believe that it is necessary, together with the insurers – in this matter, Mrs Özen, you have been right – to seek out legal aid insurance schemes, which can facilitate access to justice, not necessarily for those who cannot afford it, because we help them, but for all the others who think that justice and the use of a lawyer are expensive. Personally, I think it is appropriate to discuss and seek in the Committee on Justice to make some progress by extending legal aid as insurance without any obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u18	Minister, I would like to ask you a little question about this possible assurance. A lot of debate has taken place on this subject in the Justice Committee for years. This is something very difficult to implement. Maybe you can do it. Do you see it as compulsory insurance, as there is one for motor vehicles?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u19	I spoke about the risk of what is called "overconsumption" in French. I believe that an obligation would go too far. Having said that, we must realize – and this is the case for all of us – that we would be nowhere without an obligation to make sure for vehicles, for example. So we have to find the right balance. Some insurance companies are ready. I have no experience and have never discussed it with them. In any case, that is what the government agreement provides for. I'm going to make it a priority for myself. Mr President, I am trying to conclude. The next balance to be found is that between execution of the sentence and, of course, the overcrowding of the prisons. It is a very difficult balance and it is clear that, firstly, greater speed, secondly, more punctual implementation of the penalties and, thirdly, better probation should be possible in order to prevent repeated and overcrowding of prisons. Nevertheless, it seems obvious that we need to build up. It is not possible for a country to continue looking for its prisons abroad. Finally, Mr President, I believe that the policy of justice must strike a balance between the acute needs of the moment, on the one hand, and the basic legislation, on the other. In this sense, it is encouraging that not for the first time but hopefully for the last time in the coalition agreement a Code of Criminal Procedure and a Criminal Code is mentioned. It is high time that the old legislation was revised. This is not just the case with the penal codes, it is true with a lot of basic legislation, which works in a rigid way and which creates flame-flammation legislation and occasional legislation. I thank you for the time you have given me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u20	Mr President, I would like to return once again to legal aid. I did not understand whether additional resources would be made available to fund legal aid, apart from that inmate-funded fund. Could you give me more details about this? Moreover, will the labour courts retain their specific characteristics? Finally, as far as procedural reform is concerned, will the means of appeal be completely abolished? How is this going to happen? I take an example: at the level of the indictment chamber, if you decide to delete this aspect, it is very important. They are required to rule on procedural defects, precisely to prevent certain cases from being found in the correctional court, for example, for a year and a half or two years after the opening of the case. That's what the population doesn't want either, which is really shocking. This question of procedural flaws can really be emptied at the level of the investigation chambers. Do you intend to maintain these rooms or will they be simply deleted?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u21	Minister, you are asking whether insurance will be prepared to enter the market that will be created. I can reassure you: from the moment they can make money, they will be there. Aren't you afraid that there'll be a two-speed dish called justice à deux vitesses for people who can afford it? We see that this is already being applied in other Anglo-Saxon countries. Secondly, how do you see the evolution of labour law banks over the next two years?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u22	Mr President, I believe that the option of being able to enter into a legal defence insurance contract should not become compulsory; it nevertheless remains a response to this dualization which may appear, particularly with the increase in registry fees, and this is important. Imagine imposing it on the entire population, no. Minister, if you want to come to such an important and interesting issue for the access to justice of a whole section of the population whose income class allows legal aid to be obtained, or who is not financially comfortable to access the courtrooms, you will have to ensure that this population has a certain interest in doing so. The tax method, by means of the tax reduction on the occasion of the subscription of such insurance, seems to me conceivable. As far as I am concerned, I have tabled a bill to that effect. I hope that we will have an opportunity to discuss this in the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u23	With regard to the labour courts and their specific status as well as that of the commercial courts, when I told you that I believed in the continuity of this judicial reform, the reform seems quite obvious to me. I will never question the specific composition of commercial and labour courts. As far as the experience with eenheidsrechtbanken is concerned, we shall see. But this is an experiment. As for the composition, I'm firm. I also believe that it is beneficial in both cases (trade courts and labour courts). As far as insurance is concerned, I will not speak further. Should there really be a market for this, there would have been very interesting legal aid insurance for all possible disputes for a very long time. There are not, or very rarely at the moment. That means this deserves an investigation. I don't commit myself any further, that wouldn't be wise. As far as procedural means are concerned, I have no prejudice. However, it seems clear to me that the means should be found, in the context of criminal proceedings, to "empt" the means of procedure at a given point in time. The Indictments Chamber or the Chamber of Counsel could be a useful forum for concluding, for example, with cassation. There should be no appeal to the Supreme Court on several occasions. In the end, it can be seen that in procedural matters, only 7 per cent of appeals to the Court of Cassation are beneficial. One might think that this percentage is sufficient, but it should be borne in mind that in civil matters, 40 per cent is involved. I therefore wonder whether we should not find a limit - except at the end of the procedure because, after the conviction, we can do everything before the Court of Cassation. But with regard to the interim appeal to cassation, I am rather in favour of a solution at the level of the Chamber of Counsel or the Chamber of Indictments. [[...]] [[: (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u24	Mr President, legal aid is also, above all, a budgetary problem. We included the closed envelope in the government agreement precisely because we feared that this aid would be overconsumpted in other cases. I will work within the government to do what is necessary, as always, but I dare not promise anything in this regard. I believe that the contents of the envelope have greatly increased. I mean, from the time you were Minister of Justice, Mrs. Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u25	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u26	Yeah, still. In nominal terms, certainly not.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u27	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you, on behalf of the N-VA Group, for your excellent answers to many points raised here and interesting ones. I have heard a great deal of the word 'balance'. Unlike the past, balance is the future of justice. Justice must indeed look for delicate balances. It reminds me of what Trainor, a Supreme Court judge, once said: "Democratics must continue to carry freedom in their hearts when others have stopped doing so."
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u28	In this way we can conclude the chapter on justice. We come to the chapter on Home Affairs, Police and Security.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, what will be your government's concrete contribution to fighting insecurity in our communes and promoting living together? Prime Minister, you said the day before yesterday in this rostrum: "The government wants the police to be as available on the ground as possible." We all agree. But the first strike your government is facing is not that of railwaymen or dockers, but that of the police. The police will be well on the ground, more precisely on the street, but to protest. It's starting wrong! How will you respond to the demands of police officers? You're telling us that the government is going to strengthen research methods, data banks, the police, the crackdown on bad young beggars. Nowhere do I see a clear commitment to the refinancing that is going to be necessary, in particular in order to respond to the new demands of the judiciary. The same applies to civil security reform. I would like to go back to your statements yesterday on the budget path in terms of security and emergency services. There are still blurries that we need to clarify. As far as the relief areas are concerned, I understood that the budgetary path defined by the Monitoring Committee under the previous legislature would be well maintained. Could you confirm that? What about support for municipalities in setting up emergency measures in the event of electrical discharge? For the police areas, I am concerned and surprised about the desire to reduce the federal allocation to areas of the order of 2%. As I understand it, the maximum amount foreseen in the draft budget is EUR 14.5 million in 2015 out of an amount of EUR 725 million. I recall that 1 million euros corresponds to 18 police units in the field. These 14.5 million are therefore well entered in less as part of the index jump. I would like to know whether all of the 2% reduction in federal staffing is already divided between salaries and operating costs. Will this 2% reduction be applied linearly to each area? What will happen to the federal police, which, let us recall, also supports local police areas? What about the possible revision of the KUL standard? What about the criteria? Moreover, you do not confirm the level of recruitment. Will you maintain the efforts of the previous government in this regard? Will subsidies to police schools be maintained or reduced? What will be the impact on the finances of the local areas of your solution with regard to the Constitutional Court's ruling on police pensions? I understand you're going to offer a pre-pension leave. Will this leave be charged to the police areas? With what support mechanism compared to staffing that will already be declining? Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, all municipal agents will pay particular attention to your budgetary commitments and, above all, to their implementation. This will be the test of truth. It is on this basis that we can judge the seriousness and sincerity of your statements. You also said that the government's policy will be based on the cooperation, prevention and effective action of the security services. What cooperation and prevention are we talking about? The majority agreement limits the priorities of the National Security Plan. What will they be? Two are identified: the fight against terrorism and radicalism; I will return to that. Without denying the importance of these threats, what about the other causes of insecurity? I am concerned that "prevention plans will be thoroughly evaluated". Is there a risk that subsidies to the municipalities will be called into question in order to finance prevention projects? Prevention should not be limited to the multiplication of cameras, the residential isolation of homeless and beggars, the prohibition of places, the fight against squatters or bad faith alcohol shops. The possession of drugs in public space will be prohibited and will no longer be allowed. We can think about it, but it is not a question of considering an exclusively repressive approach, which will be inapplicable on the ground in relation to drug addiction. This statement leaves no room a priori for risk reduction initiatives called for by workers in the field and by experts. For the Socialist Party, community policing, under the responsibility of local agents, is an essential component of our physical security, our security of existence and our well-being. Let me tell you that I am again very worried about the reading of your texts. Indeed, there is a concern that the federal guardianship and intervention in the organization and operation of the police areas will be strengthened, as well as that the division of labour will be modified to the detriment of the local police. By caricaturing, this would mean that the police areas would be run by the federal government and that they would see their missions planed both in terms of funding and otherwise led by a change in the division of labour, with the local police performing tasks formerly assigned to the federal police. Are we also going to see a privatisation of the public police service? I note that the government will identify key policing tasks, encourage outsourcing and simplify the use of private security. What safeguards will be used to avoid private appropriation of the law enforcement force? Similarly, what about your willingness to review the legislation on private detectives? I read that you were going to set up a national security council. There is a need to improve the functioning of the current college, but why? Will it be a Council of Ministers bis? What are his prerogatives? With what transparency? How will parliamentary control be exercised? Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, I will end my speech with the fight against radicalism. It is clear that we must fight terrorism and radicalism. The Socialist Party has never been lax about security and is firm about it. But again, beyond the speeches, how are we going to put this proposal into practice? Three criteria must be taken into account in assessing the merits of the proposed measures: 1) relevance; 2) Feasibility and 3) their compatibility with public freedoms. On reading the agreement, one remains puzzled in this respect. I have the unfortunate impression of being put before a catalogue of measures, some of which are already being implemented – and that is so much better! –: radiation and international cooperation. I hope that we will soon have a debate on this subject, on an objectified basis and with pragmatic and concrete proposals on your part. Finally, Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, we need pragmatic actions, decisions that meet the needs of municipalities, police, intelligence services, women and men who, at every moment, work for the security of all citizens, for living together, for emancipation and social cohesion, for public peace and for respect for democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u30	Mr. President, Prime Minister, in your government statement, you confirmed that your government's policy will be based on the cooperation, prevention and effective action of the security services. I would like to know what cooperation is involved. Is this also about social consultation with trade union organisations?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u31	Mrs Ben Hamou, we closed the list of speakers yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u32	Mr President, I still have the right to ask questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u33	It is obvious that we can intervene in the debate but without making a statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u34	I'll wait then.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this government will make security a priority. The lax attitude shown by the previous government towards security will now make way for a real approach. The government will reactivate very important bodies. Let us remember the Ministerial Committee on Intelligence and Security and the Security Council. This government will optimise the functioning of these bodies and they will finally be called together. Under the previous government, that hardly happened. That's a disgrace. This government will put an end to this negligence. It will also take measures to make the fight against crime more effective. There will be an end to the half-hearted tolerance policy. Measures will be taken to combat more effectively various problems, such as squatting houses, crooked businesses and shadow-horeca cases. It will also implement important measures and reforms in the Staff Regulations. Indeed, it has already been shown that these reforms are not always easy, but what this government will not do, like the previous Minister of the Interior, is to bury their heads in the sand, set up one working party after another, and then eventually sink into nothing and let those reforms die silently. The ruins left to us by the former Minister of the Interior will have to be cleaned up by the new government. What is also being worked out and very important is a whistleblower statute for policemen. At last, taking responsibility will no longer be punished. That is not an unnecessary luxury when we think of the HAZODI case, where all this comes from. This case is not over, and there is one irregularity and illegality after another to the detriment of whistleblowers who have become real victims. In addition, we are also clearly addressing unjustified complaints against police personnel. These complaints sometimes make the work of our policemen impossible. Also, taking responsibility will no longer be penalised because we want the introduction of functional remuneration. The aberrations of the current system of allowances and premiums should be addressed. It is not possible, as in the current system, that in the long term we will no longer find chiefs of police. There will have to be a change of scenery. Responsibility must also be able to be rewarded in this area. Our colleague mentioned police training earlier. She too must be dealt with. The various police schools will need to cooperate more and to monitor the quality of training. In addition, administrative simplification should be pursued in the police with simplification of work processes and continued attention to the computerisation of the integrated police. Military people who have given the best of themselves and are looking for a new challenge should be able to be recruited by the police. Police officers who are no longer able to cope with their current work will also be able to switch to administrative positions more easily. The federal government will have to evaluate and adjust the optimisation movement in relation to the federal police. The aim is to mobilise budgetary resources to strengthen operational capacity. It is also important that the government no longer serves certain cities by using more federal police. It must be deployed wherever it is needed. This does not happen in function of the minister's residence, as has been the case so far with the use of the railway police: 360 agents in Brussels and 254 agents in the rest of the country. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the government will take the necessary measures to ensure the security of our citizens effectively and in a sound manner. That is why I will support the government. However, I will do more. Now that the sometimes turbulent debate has progressed rather well, I can only say that the debate has been led very well by our President. Anyone who criticized him the day before yesterday is free to change his mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u36	I would also like to thank you twice, Mr Degroote.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u37	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u38	Soon the Minister's answer will follow. There is normally a response to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u39	Mr President, I signed up for later, but I would nevertheless like to react to what has just been said. I feel like at times a lot of things are confused. I heard lax politics. How can we make such a statement when we know, and we were confirmed last night, that the federal staffing of police areas is going to decrease? That the previous government has committed 1,400 units and that this number of commitments is not confirmed today by the current government? Talking about laxism, saying that we're going to act without the means, I think it's a little easy. That's a little quick! So, a lax policy, was it the policy of administrative sanctions that was implemented by the previous minister? I'm really wondering. On the other hand, in relation to everything related to the fight against radicalism, I would like to mention a note that passed to Kern in March 2013 with ten measures that are word for word those in this text, and which at the time were refused by a partner of the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u40	Mr President, I would just like to go back to the last words of the colleague from the N-VA. I know that the N-VA doesn't like Brussels, it's not new. It is in your program; you do not want this Region to exist. But if we have put many policemen at the level of our stations and our railways, it is above all for the safety of all commuters. I would point out that the commuters come from Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. If there are so many in our stations, it's because that's where they converge. It is in these stations that the police must be present and not in deserted stations. Excuse us, but if we put policemen in Brussels, it's for the safety of all Belgians, not the only Brusselsers. Try a little paradigm change, it would be good for you!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u41	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister for the Interior, Mr Hans Bonte will be discussing the issue of radicalisation in the near future. First of all, I would like to raise a few points concerning our security services. Minister, of course we are curious about the budgetary picture. We are, of course, concerned about this. There are many elements in the coalition agreement which appear to be good at first sight but which require further concrete implementation by you before we know exactly where your government is going to go. The government agreement states that in order to improve the provision of services to citizens, the government will support and encourage local police areas to become more synergistic. We are referring here to interzonal cooperation. The question is what the government means by "supporting'. Does this mean that additional resources will be provided for the police areas that want to cooperate? Is it about an encouragement in a different way? Perhaps you could explain that to me later. We are very curious about that. A problem which, in my view, is only partly addressed in the coalition agreement is the discouragement that has struck our policemen in recent years. In the previous legislature, I have been able to point out a few times that policemen receive a lot of orders from the public prosecutors and carry them out as best they can, but often afterwards they find that the public prosecutors do very little with them. In other words, the use of the police often results far too little in persecution and punishment. I do read in the coalition agreement that you want to reduce the administrative workload on the judicial task in consultation with the Minister of Justice, but not only the tasks but also the follow-up given to the good work done by our policemen in the field. Furthermore, the government agreement states that you want to define the core tasks of the police. Of course, I would like to ask the following question: are there any tasks today that you do not consider to be central tasks of the police? Can you explain the tasks involved, and, if the police are not allowed to carry them out, who will have to do them? That is not very clear to me at the moment. As far as police training and police schools are concerned, I see the words 'uniformisation' and'synergy' appear. Today the police schools are organized provincially. Is this supposed to stay at provincial level? Is synergy intended to bring together police schools? Or is it intended to equalise the training of police schools? I would have liked some clarification on this. I heard the Prime Minister say in his government statement that fire reform is a priority for this government. That is good to hear, because many prezones are in the process of preparing to move from 1 January to the real zone with legal personality. However, this does not go unpunished and is accompanied by financial problems for the municipalities that form part of the zone. Zones which have not decided by 1 November to start as a legal entity from 1 January will be postponed for another year. According to the coalition agreement, the reform will take place according to a realistic calendar. I hope that the calendar envisaged by the previous government will be maintained and that we will not be faced with a new timing. During the previous legislature, all government parties continued to beaten to pay for the costs of fire reform and the federal statute. This was repeatedly confirmed by the previous government. This government agreement states that efforts to finance the reform will continue. Elsewhere, however, I read that the government would save 20% on operating costs. I hope that this does not apply to the reform of the fire department, which would pose enormous problems for the fire services. Urgent medical care is another major problem. There too, many municipalities have pointed out that this is becoming priceless. A number of hospitals no longer want to organise this themselves because it becomes too expensive. A solution must also be found for this. The solution is not to reject this to the private sector, which is happening here and there. After all, I feel that the quality offered there is slightly less than that provided by the fire zones. This is partly the responsibility of the Minister for Health. I would have liked to have heard how this government intends to deal with this problem. As far as volunteers are concerned, the government agreement states that they should be included in the consultative bodies. We have had a discussion on this in our fire department with the workers' organizations, which assume that they will represent both professionals and volunteers in the future. Does the government share this view or not? The last point I would like to raise is one that I have been faced with since the bus accident in Sierre. I noted at that time that, unfortunately, we in this country do not have the practice of evaluating and drawing lessons from crises or incidents. I refer to Gellingen, Sierre, Buizingen and Wetteren. In the Netherlands, this is much further away. In 2005, an independent Security Research Council was established there, which, immediately after an accident or a crisis of this magnitude, goes on the ground with the intention of conducting an investigation, not to identify culprits, but to learn lessons for the future. It doesn't happen in this country. Former Minister for the Interior, Mrs Turtelboom, once ordered a research report from the Leuven Institute of Criminology to investigate what is wrong here in Belgium. That research report was delivered in 2011. It came to the conclusion that there are still a lot of shortcomings in our country and a plea was also made to set up an independent safety research council in Belgium too. A large study day will soon be organized from a scientific point of view. It is important, Minister, to learn from what has gone wrong. My experience is that in every crisis people try to give the best of themselves, but nevertheless mistakes always happen. It should be the intention not to make those mistakes again next time. I would therefore like to make a warm plea for such an independent research council or something similar, with extensive powers, to be set up in our country too. I suspect you haven't been able to read that report yet, but I would recommend it as important literature.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u42	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I heard the expression "security government" on the benches of the opposition. As far as security is concerned, I would like to read from this short excerpt: "An adequate security policy is not only reactive and repressive, but is also based on prevention. The authority must put in place a community-oriented policy, with the role of the neighbourhood agent to be strengthened in particular with a view to conflict prevention." This, ladies and gentlemen, is part of the government agreement. Of course, security policy plays an important role in this agreement. At MR, we consider it an excellent thing, a necessity itself. Yes, the Reform Movement makes the choice to protect democratic values: freedom, equality, solidarity. For them to be respected, we need to ensure and assume public authority through efficient, modern and well-equipped police services. In this regard, Mr. Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I know your willingness to help the best functioning of our police areas and not to work, as I have just heard on the opposition benches, to make their tasks more complex. Therefore, it is with satisfaction that we fully assume a federal agreement that provides for an integral security policy based on enhanced cooperation between the federal authorities and regional or local authorities. It must be stressed that this cooperation has not always been optimal. It is to be welcomed that the agreement provides for the necessary valorisation of the preparatory route to police training through, inter alia, the guarantee of an adequate pool of skills and an evaluation of the recruitment system. It's been a recurring problem for years. It's time to take her by arm-body. At this level, too, it is important to highlight your government's desire for increased federal collaboration at the local level, as part of the strengthening of the federal reserve and the provision of its intervention forces. I have often denounced in another parliamentary forum – I was thus relaying the main concern of most of our chiefs of corps in our police areas – the fact that in the Brussels Region, to take this example, we do not, ladies and gentlemen, have the operational capacity to respond to two major events taking place simultaneously in the territory. The agreement goes to the heart of the matter by providing for a timely and accurate inventory of the missions of the federal police services and the missions of the local police services. How, if not, can we respond usefully to each other's needs? The agreement states that the status of police personnel will be simplified and modernized, as will the working processes to expand operational capacity; this is essential. In this respect, Mr. Minister of the Interior, the consultation will help to reassure our police officers. You will have to listen to them and be attentive to the criterion of their hard work. I will point out again the problem of cybercrime, which will finally be addressed in the framework of the Belgian Cybersecurity Centre, in consultation with the private sector. We can also welcome here the willingness to review, in the light of the renewal of the ASTRID management contract, the operation of the radiocommunication network for safety and rescue services. Too many criticisms have been expressed in recent years about this operation, particularly by the chiefs of corps in the police areas. Finally, I would like to stress with satisfaction the measures aimed at situations of terrorist threat and radicalism. Our formation, the Reform Movement, our group leader too, was on the brink. It would be good, Minister, for you to remind us of the details of the measures taken in this area. While our country is part of international coalitions of military intervention, it is essential to anticipate and plan with determination and consistency an ad hoc strengthening of the protection of our public spaces, in particular through cooperation between the police and defence services. New bilateral agreements will also improve the fight against border crime. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, public security policy is an integral part of the government agenda, and it is part of it at a high level of importance, as evidenced by the establishment of a national security council, a central – and essential – body! – coordination chaired personally by our Prime Minister. This high level of importance is simply commensurate with our needs and legitimate aspirations for the greater well-being of our citizens. We know, ladies and gentlemen, that this government will be committed to allocating the necessary resources to ensure the safety of our citizens. For these reasons, too, this government deserves the confidence of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u43	Mr President, I am still very concerned when I hear that we are going to reduce the resources in the police areas. I've been chairing one for several years. We are already having difficulty closing our budgets. We'll have even more, so we won't be able to hire any more police officers. I don't know how we're gonna do this. Yeah, I get it, we're gonna go get the federal police and send them to the areas. To believe that is possible is not to understand anything about the current police system in Belgium, sir.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u44	Mr. Pivin, this is a question for the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u45	It seems to me that there is a phrase in Molière's mind: "He is not deafer than he who does not want to hear". We heard, but maybe you weren't there last night... sorry, this morning. It was this morning. It is difficult for me to get into it, as I was sitting in the Brussels Regional Parliament, whose coming back, it seems, was serene. Living this was a great moment in my new parliamentary life. In any case, we heard the Prime Minister explain what would happen this morning. Like many of our colleagues, I am a municipalist. I will therefore be extremely attentive to the fact that the burden of our communes is not increased in the context of this problem. Yesterday, I also heard that in 2015, there would be a maximum limitation of this indexation, with nuances for part of the endowment. That's all I heard! I know that index jumps should help our municipalities in many situations of need. So I don't have the same reading as you do. For my part, I am reassured by what I heard yesterday and this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u46	I am very surprised, dear colleague, that you did not perceive as a municipalist, as I tried to put them forward, all the risks, all the perils that lie ahead of us in terms of division of labour and capacity on the ground. As far as I am concerned, I look forward very carefully to the answers of the Minister of the Interior. I have no prejudice as to the results, but I will be very attentive to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u47	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am also President of a police zone. I heard it was about minus 2%. As for the index jump – as a mayor, you will be happy in next year's budget – the municipalities will receive much less money from the federal state when taxes are collected the following year. Is a pleasure short worth...?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u48	I asked a question, I'll let you answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u49	And I'll let you get in touch with my thinking.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u50	Mr President, I hear the members of the PS and the Socialists getting rather angry about the index jump that is coming. However, I see quite a few fellow mayors here on the socialist banks. Colleagues, I don't know if you've ever calculated the impact of the index jump on your municipal finances? I hear many Socialist colleagues and OCMW Chairmen whispering in silence that the index jump has a good impact. So it is of two things one: either you agree to the index jump, include it in your municipal budget and welcome it, or you do not agree to the index jump, which may also be an attitude. You should apply the index to your staff if necessary. I am very curious to see how many socialist mayors of sp.a and of the PS in our country will award their staff because they do not agree with the index jump: Mr Termont in Ghent, the mayors in Limburg, in Luxembourg, in Wallonia, in East Flanders, in Brussels and in Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u51	Mr President, the same argument has been heard since the beginning of this parliamentary debate: "What are you complaining about, you who are in the communes, in the local authorities, thanks to the index jump, you are going to make savings, especially in the wage bill?" It's kind of like being treated as a hooker by Pablo Escobar. I'm sorry to tell you. First of all, this index jump, we don't want it! It is you who impose it on the whole population, on millions of workers. That's a first thing. Secondly, you come on communal finances: let us stay on communal finances. You're going to cut the payroll by millions of taxpayers. This means that you will reduce the tax on natural persons and therefore the additional communal ones. There will be an impact on communal finances, but negative and not positive!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u52	Mr President, I would like to go back to Mr. Van Quickenborne to tell him that, in any case, what is proposed to us is to take account of non-indexing in the envelope of the zones. We have no choice! If we subscribe to this mechanism, we will have to take it into account, as we will reduce our envelope. Don't plead like that. Let us try to hear what the government is going to tell us and we will try to discuss it. But don't hold that argument: it's a false argument!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u53	Mr President, I will reply to Mr Demeyer de Liège and his colleague from the PS. The most important thing is to observe the effect of an index jump. An index jump affects the budget of cities and municipalities up to 40% or even 50%. On the other hand, its effect on PPI is much lower: the PPI's revenue on the municipality's finances accounts for 15 to 20%. The difference is important. That is why I repeat that in Dutch too, I have seen incredibly many socialist colleagues, including in Leuven, Ghent and Ostend, who said they were happy with the index jump, because it saves the budget. To those Members who consistently refuse the index jump, I propose to allow an increase in the index for their staff, because nothing prevents them from doing so. I wonder if I can find one city or municipality in Belgium, which will do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u54	Mr Van Quickenborne, you have asked what socialist mayors think about the index jump. You have a point when you say that the index jump gives the municipal finances some breathing space. But I can assure you, Mr Van Quickenborne, that, as far as I am concerned, a municipality should not be financed on the hood of the employees of a municipality, not on the hood of the pensioners in that municipality, not on the hood of the sick there. This is exactly what an index jump does: it applies not only to the workers working for the city, but to all the inhabitants of the city. I would like to add something to that, Mr Van Quickenborne. I myself, regrettably, with a liberal Treasury vessel, increased the real estate tax by 25% because the Flemish government does not do what it has to do, namely to finance its local authorities in a decent way.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u55	Mr President, I find it difficult to understand this index jump that seems to be the obsession of many Liberals. It will lead to impoverishment of the population, a decrease in purchasing power. I suppose you all know that in Belgium, 68% of GDP is generated by domestic consumption. I don't know how we're going to grow like this!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u56	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister for the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, there is a scarce number of issues where we in this House should not be directly involved in party politics. I would like to begin by underlining that I am largely in agreement with what I read in your coalition agreement on radicalism. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a problem that affects us all as democrats, our democratic values are at stake. Maybe I should like to emphasise what is clear today. It appears that 342 people have left for Syria and Iraq. I've heard 81 people have returned by now. The estimates say 45 Belgians were killed. It is also good to see that this problem arises mainly in Flanders, in Flemish cities, and more and more also in Brussels municipalities. They are very often young people. They are often people of ethnic origin, although not always. We are talking about a broad social problem that affects everyone. It is a particularly complex matter, it is about death and fear, about misery, sadness, frustration, complexes, prejudices, discrimination, failed integration, failed integration, sects, recruitment, the strength of the new media, but in any case it is also about security, about risks that we all share. Mr Prime Minister, Minister, before going into what is in the coalition agreement, I would nevertheless like to dwell on two issues on which everyone agrees. When I talk about everyone, I am talking about domestic politics, but perhaps also about foreign policy or the foreign approach to the problem of radicalism. Firstly, there is about a consensus that one can only deal with this if one tries to do it in an integrated way. We cannot defeat radicalism unless we act both repressively and preventively. A second issue on which there is certainly a domestic consensus, Minister, is that the Milquet-Turtelboom method certainly needs to be improved. I have said this here in the past, and I repeat it now. I'd like to say a few words about it later. The fundamental question that lies ahead is whether this coalition agreement brings a perspective of improvement, or whether it offers a perspective for better control of the risks involved, all of them. In short, will the facts also show that the government agreement on this issue is a priority? I read a lot of things that are considered priority. That is also normal in a coalition agreement. However, I believe that this is of sufficient order to put it forward as a real priority. Minister, the integrated approach is my first approach before I make the political evaluation. The more people talk about the integrated approach, the more people discuss it, the more loads this term begins to cover. This approach has both preventive and repressive aspects. Furthermore, it is also a question of ensuring that all levels of policy must cooperate fully, the federal government, regional authorities and local authorities. That doesn't make it any easier in a complex country like ours. That too, however, is an integral part of the term. Another interpretation, another charge covered by the term integral, is that it has to cover the whole territory. It is not enough for a number of cities to try to do their job, according to their best ability, while they sometimes look at cities and municipalities that do nothing. Integral therefore has a very wide coverage here. I quote what the coalition agreement says: 'That is why the government will consult the Länder in the near future with a policy of prevention, pro-active, judicial and administrative policy.' A little further I read the announcement of consultation with the local authorities. You will not hear me comment on this, I believe that this is indeed the right course of action. However, Minister, I would like to motivate you to do this quickly. I am therefore curious to see what this short-term means. I'm curious about the calendar that's behind this. I would like to make one point of criticism here, in particular that you are very dependent on what the regions are doing in order to achieve your integrated policy. In that respect, it is not five before twelve, but five over twelve. I will not allow myself to be tempted into a polemic between majority and minority, as I have already said in my introduction. I would just like to quote from a free gallery of two fellow Members of mine, including my good colleague Bart Somers from Mechelen, until recently about the spokesperson for Open Vld in this debate. I would like to quote from what he said on 24 September 2014 during the discussion of the September Declaration of the Flemish Government. I read what Mr Somers is writing together with Mr De Ro, ships of Education in my city. They are following this dossier in the Flemish Parliament, and I quote: "Vlaanderen has many keys to tackle radicalisation. This is why more initiative is needed from the Flemish Parliament and Martelarenplein. In the same free stand in De Standaard under the beautiful name An ostrich does not stop Syrian fighters: .The Flemish level of policy also has an immense responsibility. Flanders is responsible for youth policy, prevention, community building, street corner work, education, ditching issues, justice houses, juvenile delinquency, juvenile justice, reintegration of ex-convicts, integration policy, victim support. This is already a long way to go in the fight against radicalisation. It is high time, the two fellow Members from the majority say during the discussion of the September Declaration, that the Flemish Government and the Flemish Parliament are developing a coherent policy. Today, the Flemish level remains too passive. In addition, the fight against radicalisation needs to be extended. Prime Minister, Minister, in this difficult area of policy, all democratic forces must work together, at the local, regional and federal level. A criticism from the past, here and outside, of opposition and of majority, is that there is no coherence in policy. The ruling of the Flemish majority parties devotes a sentence to this problem, a working group of experts will be set up. That is the only sentence in the Flemish coalition agreement. There is also a sentence in the Brussels coalition agreement, and that is what we are concerned with in the administration, for the sake of clarity. Radicalism is becoming one of the top priorities. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot continue to play ostrich politics. What we certainly cannot do is to lose ourselves again in a kind of ping-pong contest where one level of policy looks at another. You certainly have my support, Minister. I hope that you will work very quickly on what you write in the coalition agreement, in particular to develop an integrated policy in the short term. I have one more point, Mr President, in particular the Milquet-Turtel tree method. Some say, depending on whether they belong to the majority or the opposition, that the previous government has been solely concerned with the establishment of task forces and the organisation of fairgrounds. I am one of those who would like to stress that the Minister of the Interior was at least very committed in that debate and has also made a great deal of efforts. However, we cannot look beyond the reality of a gigantic shredding field, including at the federal level, on security services. I am referring to the cacophony in the consultations between the Security of the State, the OCAD and the judicial services. There is hardly any exchange of information between the various judicial districts. Between judicial information services and local authorities, there is a problem with the flow of information which puts us at risk. I can give you a great deal of information on this and I am prepared to do so. However, one thing must also be clear: security policy, and certainly this difficult, labour-intensive policy, requires more resources. Everyone's on their gums. We have heard the security of the State cry out that it needs more resources. We have heard judicial services calling. The question is very simple: where are the resources? Are those resources available? Will it be possible to provide additional support? I would like to conclude with a figure, Mr President. It is suggested that each re-exporter is to be followed very closely. As chief of police, I was informed that 24 hours of tracking a person requires the deployment of 24 full-time equivalents. We are dealing with 81 people who have returned. Minister, I have not yet seen any support for the local police forces who want to pursue a very secure succession. I hope that more resources can be directed towards services that must control radicalism.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u57	Mr. Chair, Prime Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the first point to address is the continuing blurring of the police budget, including federal staffing. Early this morning, the Budget Minister, Mr.Jamar, told us that this was a 2% reduction in federal staffing. Prime Minister, you have taken the floor to correct this figure and to say that it was, in consultation with the police areas, a reduction in indexation. Why this figure of 2%? This is a question that all speakers have asked. If this concerns part of the indexation, this leads to a reduction in the budget. It can be said in Latin or Greek, it is a reduction in the budget. We regret the fact that the actions proposed in the text cannot be carried out. In the previous negotiation, the CDH had obtained full immunity from the means of justice and the police. In the course of the legislature, we had even obtained the possibility of employing an additional 1,400 people a year for the police, compared with 1,000 previously. We will have to have answers on this. Local agents, especially the mayors, want their police to be funded at best. We know all the difficulties that this already poses in the communes. Even if this is a decrease in indexation, it amounts to removing resources from the municipalities. How are you going to be able to secure all the commitments you mentioned in your government agreement? I understand – I would like the Minister of the Interior or the Prime Minister to confirm – that the means obtained, in particular, by the Minister of the Interior, Joëlle Milquet, under the previous parliamentary term on civil security will remain well in the scheduled cruising pace. I believe that all local agents at the time had stressed that the reform was, in any case, paid in full according to the commitment that had been made. I will also refer to the police pension file. At one point, Melchior Wathelet, then Minister of the Interior, had the opportunity to reach a compromise with trade union representatives. I would like to know why you did not content yourself with it, while it respected social consultation. In any event, he had received the consent of the trade union representatives. Of course, you are implementing the Constitutional Court's decision with transitional provisions. I wish I'd known more. If this compromise was indeed satisfactory for the trade unions, why, then, do they go on strike in the coming days? That means it's not exactly the same thing. I would like to know what is happening with this agreement at the level of police pensions. I have identified two or three points: private security legislation. You say you want to undertake a major reform of the private security legislation - it has already undergone many reforms - to entrust it with other tasks. What are these other missions? It is now known that this legislation deals with missions which in some way do not fall under the so-called imperium, the essential police missions. What is it? What is behind private security missions? In addition, I note a sentence on the allowances and allowances currently available to police officers. You want to simplify and the idea is to tend to a salary that includes these allowances and allowances. If the idea is not bad in terms of legibility, I would like to know whether, to the extent that you incorporate these allowances and allowances into a basic salary, you will account for them in the pension. One last word about the fight against radicalism. For weeks, my colleague Georges Dallemagne and I have initiated a process on three provisions: the loss of nationality, the activation of the so-called "mercenary" law and the withdrawal of travel documents. Word for word, that is what is included in the government agreement. I simply note that a note in Kern dated April 2013, tabled by the Minister of the Interior, takes up all these measures. However, at the time, it did not receive, in particular from the MR, approval for the measures that I now find in the government agreement. I am really surprised and, for our part, we will continue our study of these issues. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you mention the possibility of confiscating the passport. It should be noted that entry into Turkey requires the mere presentation of an identity card. That point should therefore be reconsidered. I regret the lack of a European dimension: a greater European ambition would be welcome, since this is not just about Belgium but about all European states.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have noted about fifteen points to answer. A first point, the pensions for the police, will be dealt with by my colleague from Pensions shortly. I can say that meetings with the trade unions are planned early next week to adapt this problem as quickly as possible. With respect to police areas and federal endowments, the index jump debate can be addressed. If allocations for police areas are reduced by a maximum of 2%, this decrease does not affect police areas. This offsets the jump in the index because the federal endowments account for 85% of personnel costs. We can debate the index jump and vote for or against. This debate is very interesting; it has already been conducted several times. They also asked how the police zones are supported when they look forward to cooperation, merger or alliances. Well, the intention is to provide expertise in this area. In that respect, I think I can certainly reassure people, because I myself was mayor and chairman of a fire department until Saturday morning. The municipal heart beats with me, too. In my municipality, the police area is similar to the municipal borders, but the issue of merger, cooperation or cooperation was also a matter of concern to us. We must be able to offer this expertise to the local police zones, so that the ideal size of a police zone can be determined, where the benefits of the homogeneity of a community zone or a small zone may or may not be surpassed by the advantages of a larger whole. The expertise, useful in making that analysis, will, in my opinion, be an important commitment. Mr Demeyer, you asked me about a possible revision of the KUL standards. That's not part of the deal. So we are not going to change those standards. The debate on drugs. We do want to reduce the drug tolerance policy and ensure that drugs are not allowed in the public. This fits in with the policy of dealing with nuisances. There is absolutely no intention to use police officers to pick people from streets and squares and look in their pockets for drugs. You should consider this as a means of dealing with nuisances where drug use leads to nuisances. This is about public affairs, private doing or leaving one what one wants of course. Questions were asked about the core tasks debate or the division between federal and local government. Mr Demeyer, I can assure you that this will be done in collaboration with the associations of cities and municipalities. We share the same concern there that it would indeed be too easy to transfer the burden from the federal to the local. That's not the point. It is intended to achieve a correct distribution, in consultation with the Association of Cities and Municipalities. As a consequence, there is the privatisation of a number of police tasks. This must be taken into account in the same key tasks debate and consultation. Without giving examples now because this is rather delicate, I believe that some of the tasks the police are doing today could be done by private companies as well or better. As a majority, we do not take any preliminaries. This will be part of the core task debate and of the concert that will take place on this subject. It is true that the National Security Council and the Ministerial Committee have been mentioned. It is really the intention of this majority to convene that Ministerial Committee, chaired by the Prime Minister, on a very regular basis and to give guidance from that body to the National Security Council, so that the cacophony stops there and the direction we need to move towards. As far as radicalism is concerned, there is a rather large consensus among the people who have spoken in the debate on priority. I can assure you that, for me, tackling deradicalisation is a top priority and that we must do so in debate with Parliament. Because there is a fairly large consensus on this, it is wise to have that debate in Parliament with all the political groups. Mr Bonte, I can assure you that consultations with mayors on this matter are certainly appropriate. I have noted with you that the regions are a little abdicated in this area at the moment. We will therefore have to find the appropriate channels to convince the regions of the importance of this. Mr Vanvelthoven, you have indeed rightly pointed out the anomalies between the often good work of the police and the laxity of prosecuting a number of cases in the public prosecutors' offices. In the coalition agreement it is included that there is a need for consultation between me and my colleague in the Justice Department. Mr Bonte, as head of a small municipality, I have seen nothing more demotivating than seeing crimes and criminal offences that they solve unpunished. Everyone can imagine that this is very demotivating. There was also a question from Mr Vanvelthoven about police schools. There are indeed two possibilities. The coalition agreement states that we will investigate this. What we must at least do is equalise training so that they are uniform across the various provincial police schools. Through the investigation we also want to check whether a merger or scaling-up of police schools is advisable. We are not taking any preliminaries at the moment. The idea of the merger will be examined for its advantages and disadvantages. The fire department reform is getting very close. On 1 January 2015, the zones can board that are ready and want to. I can assure you that the financial commitment that has been made in the past has also been translated into figures by us. The starting figures, on which the relevant table was drawn up yesterday, are figures from the Monitoring Committee and are based on the financial commitments made. So they stand still. We speak of a realistic calendar. During the formation of the government, we discussed whether we should keep the date of 1 January 2015. It seems to us appropriate to maintain it, because we are now so close to reform. We want to motivate as many zones as possible, to start by then. However, it was previously stipulated in the law that the parties concerned could postpone the reform for one year, provided that there was a loss of funding in this area. I do not know whether it has been established as such in the past, but we want to make things proportional. We do not want to lose the full amount if the reform is to be implemented only after 1 January 2015 by 1 January 2016. When zones report that they are ready on 1 July 2015, they will receive the rest of the donation. We want to add a little more flexibility and flexibility to the calendar. If we write in the coalition agreement that we want to look at the fire reform to see if we don't demotivate volunteers, then that is because the fire reform I feel is quite heavy for volunteers. There are a lot of corps in Belgium that work purely with volunteers. I think we need to keep the reform under review. It seems obvious to me that voluntary organizations should be involved in this process, alongside the social partners. As regards urgent medical aid, as chairman of our area, I have reached the same conclusion as you did in the chair, Mr Vanvelthoven: it is today a cacophony, an anomaly, because several hospitals and fire services that offer that aspecti is not included in the fire reform alongside private organisations. In consultation with Health, we certainly need to examine how best to organise urgent medical aid. You warned against rejecting that to the private sector. I can take your warning seriously, in the sense that in my area a number of municipalities called on the private sector, where there were not enough journeys to make urgent medical assistance interesting for the private sector. So he was no longer motivated for this. In consultation with Health, we might be able to look at this after the fire department reform has been implemented. To the fire zones that have ambulances today, we should offer a model to evaluate this. Finally, Mr Vanvelthoven, there is your suggestion regarding the 2011 research report to evaluate disaster management. I wasn't aware that that didn't happen. It seems almost obvious to me, although it will not be obvious to put it on its feet. So I'd like to take that suggestion with me. Finally, with regard to the debate on means, I refer to the discussions on the budget that we will have in the coming weeks. I believe that this chapter on the means for security in this country will be very important. Thank you, I think I have answered every question asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u59	[[Mr President, I have heard the question from our colleague Mrs Matz.]] In fact, as you know, the decision of the Constitutional Court of 10 July 2014 provides for a number of conditions for a reform of the end of police careers. Of course, we must ensure that the formula that we will apply is compatible with the Constitutional Court's ruling. Otherwise, we are going to get into an extremely complicated situation and this will create great insecurity for the police officers who arrive in the relevant ages. The solution proposed by the Minister of the Interior was not fully compatible with the ruling of the Constitutional Court, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it concerned only ex-gendarmes. A solution must be found that concerns all police officers, whether they come from the communal police or the gendarmerie, and therefore the solution must be comprehensive. Two elements must be taken into account in this search for a solution. On the one hand, account must be taken of the police officers and former gendarmes who are currently in receipt of their pension and who were in receipt of their pension before the date of publication of the judgment. These will keep the current situation and are therefore not really concerned. On the other hand, those who are 53 years old as of July 10, 2014 must have an adjustment of their end of career. That's what we're proposing. An end-of-career adaptation with requests for suitable functions. This aspect must, of course, be negotiated in consultation with the police unions, so that agreement can be reached quickly. It is therefore necessary to seek an end-of-career scheme and, failing to find suitable jobs, a period of paid non-employment must be provided, in any case from the age of 58 at the earliest and at the time when they are less than four years of the possibility of taking up their pension. These are the principles of the proposed reform so that we can quickly reach agreement with the police. We will work in this direction with the Minister of the Interior to find a solution as soon as possible. But, I repeat, this must be done with real compatibility with the Constitutional Court's ruling in order to avoid placing the police in a new state of insecurity.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u60	Mr. Minister of Pensions, thank you for your explanation. As far as the question of police pension is concerned, I think you have not decided correctly. You are merely reintroducing discrimination similar to that provided for by the Constitutional Court. Indeed, it is expected that at the age of 53, police officers will be able to take their "pension". You have a non-activity system with no loss of income for up to four years. But what is going to happen is that some areas, richer, will be able to decide to put these people into non-activity and other areas, poor, will not be able to afford it. My question is this. Are you ready to maintain the 2012 Police Pensions Agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u61	In view of the fact that what I have just said has not yet been published, I shall therefore repeat myself. The situation that existed in 2012 is obviously no longer applicable since, since then, there has been a ruling of the Constitutional Court in 2014. The purpose of this judgment is to repeal the differences in treatment, which some call discrimination, which would not be objectively justifiable between the regulation of integrated policies, on the one hand, and the general system, on the other. Today, as I have just said, we must find a formula that remains compatible with the ruling of the Constitutional Court. It is true that at some point there will be differences between police areas. But that is not what is covered by the Constitutional Court's ruling. What is targeted in terms of discrimination and differential treatment are the differences between the police system and the general system. Police areas will have to look for suitable functions for their police officers during a transitional period. Some areas will find a number, some or many. Others will not find it easily. When police areas will not find suitable functions, a special regime will be required. This regime will be the same for all police areas and for all police officers who will choose this way of organizing their end of career.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u62	Mr Minister, I appreciate the attitude of the government and of you in particular to work on this in the short term, particularly towards the regions of the island. I will follow that very closely, because we are lagging behind in the field of prevention and the fundamental mistakes are piling up. I also referred to the need for additional capacity, both at the level of state security and at the level of federal and local police forces. After all, they are heavily redded and do not have enough opportunities to monitor radicalism. Are additional resources available in the budget for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u63	Mr Minister, I come back to two elements. First of all, it's taken care of that your heart is also beating locally. Eventually, the area of the security services is separate from the level at which it takes place at municipal level. So it is absolutely a plus that you, as a minister, were active at the local level and on the ground. That's very important. In many of your answers you have indicated that the government has either not yet taken a position or still has to consult with Health, Justice and the Flemish Association of Cities and Municipalities. In other words, there is still a great deal to be done about the declaration of government, and there is still much to be done about it. I assume that you will be working very quickly on this so that the consequences will soon become visible on the ground as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u64	Mr President, I would like to go back to what the Minister for Pensions has said, which I thank for the clarity of his answer, but which, in my opinion, is not going to appease the police, especially those who are at the end of their careers, who, following the Constitutional Court's ruling, are experiencing terrible legal uncertainty. You at least recognized him and I thank you for that. I have already asked on several occasions for a solution to be reached as quickly as possible, since each additional day is a lost day. I do not have the same reading as you of the Constitutional Court's ruling. I believe, for my part, that an alignment of the ex-gendarmes with the Ayqyek system is subject to all the other police officers, within the police, within the framework of the officers, would suffice to respond to this judgment. But if the objective of the one who reads the Constitutional Court's ruling is to make all police officers work much longer, it is better to have the same reading as you do, namely that all preferential pension schemes should be abolished – with departures at 54, 56, 58, 60 or 62 years of age – and career prospects for police, army or SNCB officers. If that is the objective you are pursuing, it must be said! But this should not only concern the police, but also all those who benefit from preferential schemes. In this case, go to the end of your reasoning! We can't make two contradictory speeches. Either, we have the reading that is mine – the right one, I think – of the Constitutional Court's ruling. In this case, it is possible to respond clearly to this judgment by providing full legal certainty to all police officers. Either you read it, and in this case you have to bear the consequences, which will concern both the police, the army, the SNCB agents. And I wish you pleasure! I find this unfair to all those people who are at the end of their careers and who, today, know when they will be able to go to the pension and to whom, as it approaches, it is announced that their career will be much longer than they believe. The last element, Mr President, the Minister of Pensions, is the impact on the municipalities. The result of the Constitutional Court's ruling is that police personnel in the municipalities will have to work longer. This means that, in their mass of personnel, agents will be more and more expensive and that they cannot be replaced by younger ones, because older people must be kept longer. In addition, the operational nature of police officers will be less, as in terms of weekend or night benefits, they are less available. What do we say to the communes? First, it's going to cost you more. Then you'll have police officers who are less operational. In addition, their funding will decrease by 2% to supposedly compensate for an index jump that you will still replenish the following year in the allocations to the communes by the decrease of the IPP mass. Four times a slap to all the communes! Finally, we are told: do not worry, there will be guaranteed remuneration, i.e. remuneration for non-activity. For the other questions, Minister of Pensions, this is an ideological discussion. You have your vision, we have ours. There is nothing rude about that, it is a divergence of views. The element on which I would like you to give full clarity is the paid non-activity for all police area personnel. Who pays her? Who finances the maintenance on the payroll of a municipality of an inactive policeman who is paid?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u65	But, my dear colleague, I do not think that this should be approached from the point of view of an ideological vision. Moreover, if the CDH had an ideological vision, that would be true! I'm not surprised by that. Let no one take a shadow, but if you ask five lawyers to analyze the Constitutional Court's ruling, you'll probably have five different opinions. What emerges from the majority opinion, since this must be done properly, is that the discrimination invoked is one in relation to the social system of the police officers. This is written in the decision of the Constitutional Court. It is therefore necessary to take this criterion into account in part. Of course, I would not ask better if other criteria could be taken into account. The issue will have to be analysed very closely. But it is certain today that we will have to work on career ends and adapted functions. That is a general principle. Like you, I believe that we must not break with this principle. It is in our interest to ensure that career ends are gradually adjusted, that more flexible periods are found, that partial pension periods are found, and that each individual can manage his or her career according to his or her personal and family life. All this is in no way called into question. This remains a priority objective in order to ensure that the transition from full activity to retirement is smooth and flexible. With regard to the specific case before us here, focusing solely on the equivalence of treatment of ex-gendarmes and police officers will not be sufficient to meet the requirement of the Institutional Court. So you'll have to be a little more creative. If that had been simple, it is likely that the previous government, of which you were a member, would have already definitively solved the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u66	I'll be brief. I only have one question to ask you: who pays?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u67	You therefore agree with the first part of my answer. In order to determine who will have to pay, negotiations will be necessary between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Pensions. The aim is to ensure that the police areas are as operational as possible and that the latter and the municipalities are not upset – I would say – by the solution that has been found. In any case, I agree to seek a solution. This is why this case will be dealt with jointly by the Ministries of the Interior and Pensions. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u68	The commitment is clear. We are simply in the context of a budgetary debate that we should have on the subject in the near future. (...): Sound prudence.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u69	Mr Minister of the Interior, in relation to the explanations on the allocation: is that to say that next year, the effects of 2%, if I understand what you are saying, will no longer be felt?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u70	Can you repeat it? I didn't get it very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u71	According to my understanding of federal staffing in police areas, if I follow your reasoning and understand what you have explained, it means that the municipalities will no longer feel the effects of 2% next year. That means that this 2% is just for this year; that next year is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u72	Yeah, I think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u73	In the course of the morning – we were not many at that time – I formally stated, and the Deputy Prime Minister just confirmed this: in 2015 it is a matter of limiting indexation, since we are considering an index jump on only part of the staffing, and it is therefore only valid for 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u74	Mr President, as far as police pensions are concerned, a balanced and funded solution will have to be found. I would like to return to the debate on the adjustment of the end of career. Both in the experts' report and in the government's note, there are some interesting leads that I find interesting. This concept of part-time pensions, we see in the other direction: a form of sharing working time between tired seniors who want to reduce their working time and young people who have difficulty entering the labour market and who could replace them for the period that is no longer worked by older workers. It is a system that exists in the French Community since the rainbow government. It's called the Tandem Plan. It is a form of career modernization, which is important. On the other hand, where I have a real problem with the choices made by this government, which are in line with those made by the Di Rupo government, these are the measures you have taken with regard to time credit. It is a formula used by older workers precisely to reduce the pressure they are under to do something else and finally to stay longer at work. By deciding to reduce the possibility of access to this time credit, you force them to stop using these flexible formulas. In line with your good intentions yesterday, Mr Bacquelaine, I would like the whole government to review these time-credit measures, relax them, and organize them in a framework that is budgetaryly interesting. Indeed, workers who replace older workers who reduce their working time are no longer unemployed. The equation is therefore budgetaryly interesting, as shown in the Tandem plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u75	What were you doing last night, Mr. Gilkinet?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u76	I was there with you, Mr. Bacquelaine. Remember, I asked you. Until 6:00 p.m. You left before me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u77	I remember, however, that the debate took place. Mr. Nollet, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u78	Mr President, the debate is slipping. It's not very elegant.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u79	Clearly, Mr Gilkinet was absent from the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u80	But no, I didn't leave the session!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u81	I'll repeat what we said yesterday. Of course, daytime understanding is not always the same as nighttime understanding. I can imagine it. Indeed, time credit is part of the end-of-career adjustment measures that allow a smooth transition from the activity period to the pension period. There are two elements of response. First, from the moment we raise all the limits upwards – early pension (the reform started by the previous government), the legal age of the pension – the age at which we can take time credits is also adapted. Secondly, there is a difference between the types of time credit. Time credits that have social added value (motivated time credits) are valued more than time credits that concern a simple choice of organization of working time according to one's wishes (unmotivated time credits), without any real motivation. This is the philosophy of our agreement on end-of-career planning.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u82	Mr President, I am entitled to the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u83	Mr Gilkinet, you are exaggerating! Listen to the answers and take note of them. You'll judge after that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u84	Mr President, I will reply to Mr Bacquelaine; it would have already been over if you had not interrupted me. Yeah, I'll be brief. Mr Bacquelaine, no more than last night, I do not agree with your reasoning. There is a clear contradiction between your comments on end-of-career planning and the linear measures you have taken in relation to time credit. In this regard, I invite you to review your copy. It is a budget-neutral system that improves the lives of workers, contrary to the options your government has taken, which are likely to exhaust them even more.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u85	Mr President, my question concerns radicalism and is addressed to the Minister of the Interior. Minister, do you intend to withdraw Belgian nationality from jihadists and recruiters and hate preachers who have dual nationality rather than try to deradicalize them on the citizen's account?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u86	The answer is quite simple. The coalition agreement literally states that the law must be amended so that we can be Belgian nationals, it is not automatic, there must be an evaluation of someone who has dual nationality. For that, we will make a legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u87	Mr Minister, I asked a precise question in my reply. By the way, I had already put it in the chair. As part of the fight against radicalism, has the government made additional funds available to the security services, which are currently in the red? I referred to the question of State Security, the judicial and local police forces and the people working on cybercrime. In short, has the current budget provided additional financial space to support the fight against radicalism?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u88	Indeed, Mr Bonte, that question was still on my sheet, as was your colleague's remark that we had not yet taken a position on a number of issues. There's gonna be another policy paper. Give me the time until then, I'm only in office for three days. When we come up with the policy notes, they will be answered. As far as your question is concerned, Mr Bonte, I assume that it is clear to everyone that the budgets are under pressure. It will be my job, during the budgetary discussions, to translate government priorities into resources, within the envelope allocated. This will be a difficult exercise, but we will undoubtedly be able to discuss it again in the budgetary discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u89	Mr Minister of the Interior, when I read the government agreement, I am concerned about the direct attacks on the status of police officers. The agreement deals with the simplification of the statute, the revision of the disciplinary law with the limitation of the role of the mayor, the simplification of the evaluation procedure, the possibility for an operational to move into the CALOG statute, the simplification of allowances and allowances. I would like to know why you want to simplify. Is it to improve police areas or to reduce the salaries of police officers? This Monday, in Sudpresse, you said that it was an anomaly that chiefs earn less than some who are under their command and that in Brasschaat, there are motorcycle policemen who receive a bonus while that is part of their job. I want to send you a message and tell you that it is important for a minister of the interior to know that the police are subdivided into several services, with a specific workload and specificities for each of their tasks. To withdraw or reduce these bonuses will simply be to stop making this profession valuable and attractive. I recall that these allowances are not stolen. They compensate for daily expenses, night work, weekend work, all times, irregular benefits and the risks incurred every day. My question is simple: will you reduce these allowances or remove them?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u90	My answer will also be very simple, Mrs Ben Hamou. You can read in the government agreement that this reorganization will be carried out with a closed envelope, thus without any reduction in the budget. The goal is to simplify things, i.e. to incorporate more bonuses into the base salary, which I prefer to the complexity.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u91	Mr President, I had done a small calculation for the police areas, because in fact, contrary to what one might think, it will be a profitable operation for the municipalities. Let us assume that the budget for the police zone is 100 per cent. As the allocation is half of the budget, this represents 50 per cent. For staff, the rate is 85 per cent. So there's 35% difference. If we had planned an increase in staffing of 1% in 2015, we would have had, as we have already received less than the index for years, 50.5%; staff, 2%, due to the lack of index jump, which brings us to 86.7%, i.e. a delta of 36.2%. With the formula now being proposed, staffing is 50%; staff is 85%. What's going on? The 2% of staffing is subtracted, or 49%. Staff remains at 85%, delta down to 36%!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u92	Thank you for that clarification! The Home Office chapter is closed. We're going to the chapter on Asylum and Migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the PS has heard Mr Franken's apology; it is not nothing, but it is not enough for us. We didn't ask for an apology, but a resignation. It's too easy to talk 20 seconds and say we forget everything. I would remind you that you are accused of complacency with regard to collaboration, homophobic statements and racist statements. For the PS, you had to resign. We believe that it is a mistake and a weakness on the part of the Prime Minister not to have obtained this resignation. Let's go back to your government agreement. This year 2014 has been an opportunity to highlight the positive contributions of emigration to Belgium over the past 50 years or more. No trace of that in your government agreement. On the contrary, this agreement stigmatizes, labels, reduces asylum seekers and migrants to mere flows or even worse: nothing more than potential fraudsters. To the extent that even marriage is systematically considered a suspect if it is contracted abroad with a foreigner, regardless of any consideration for the couples concerned or their history. This is the meaning of your passage on the certificates of non-inhibition to marriage. Each line of your agreement might call for a reaction, but I will settle for a few points that I think are essential. The first is your ambition of access or deprivation of nationality. On the one hand, you are considering inserting an allocation of Belgian citizenship to those who would demonstrate exceptional economic merit. A merit that we are happy about, or rather that we are worried about, the definition. On the other hand, you propose to be able to withdraw nationality even to persons who were born in Belgium if they have dual nationality. It's new! Mr Franken, I would like to know whether, among the offences that will allow the withdrawal of nationality tomorrow, we will find the fact of driving with a false registration plate to avoid speed tickets, or of throwing a PV with all the contempt for the public authority involved in this gesture. The whole philosophy of your government agreement...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u94	Mr President, Mrs Fernandez, you say that our nationality legislation is being extended...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u95	Excusez-moi. (Finds headphones for translation)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u96	I'm not going to say it in French, because that wouldn't make any sense. Mrs Fernandez, you say that the government agreement states that the acquisition of nationality would be extended to include economic merits. I suppose you are referring to the principle of naturalisation which is defined and discussed in the Committee on Naturalizations. The fact that you do not find a definition of this at government level is therefore due to the simple reason that this matter is being discussed in the Committee on Naturalizations.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u97	I therefore await Mr Franken's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u98	Mr. Ducrame would like to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u99	Very courteous...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u100	I expect no less from you, Mr. Ducrame.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u101	I would like to intervene very courteously in reaction at the beginning of your speech. Once again, and this has unfortunately been a general trend since we started this discussion around the government statement, I regret this tendency that you have to caricature. When you tell us this deal would be stigmatizing.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u102	He is!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u103	No, ma'am, because philosophy remains the same. We do not want to ban immigration, we simply want to control it and continue the work that has been done in this area since the last Parliament. I would like to remind you, however, that we have reformed family reunification. At the time, your group had not voted against it. We have reorganized the legislation on the granting of Belgian nationality. Again, you were at our side.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u104	Not me: I abstained.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u105	We are in line with this immigration and asylum policy, which must naturally consider the issue of immigration control with humanity and firmness, but not beyond. We will never be stigmatizing in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u106	I'm glad to hear it, Mr. Ducrame.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u107	Madam, we have worked together, with the Socialist Party, on a number of turning points that have been taken in this area, simply because our country needed them. The idea of this agreement is to combat abuses and also to ensure, in terms of asylum, that we avoid a crisis as we have experienced it. So it is clear that the liberal humanist footprint in this government agreement on asylum and immigration is total.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u108	You will allow me to wait for Mr Franken's answers and his clarifications!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u109	Mr President, as I know, the N-VA has not stopped criticizing this policy under the former legislature. She called for a hardening. I understand that you want a breaking government that wants to harden this policy. We would like to know what is happening, especially since obviously it would be a racist who would be the head of this department. We would like to know exactly what is happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u110	Colleague, I cannot prevent you from intervening, but I doubt whether it will be a very constructive discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u111	Mrs Onkelinx, asylum and migration is not my theme. Mr Francken and Mr Smeyers have worked very hard on these issues in recent years, so I have the greatest confidence that Theo Francken will now also act in a very human and firm manner. What I absolutely cannot accept, Mrs Onkelinx, is your persistent claim yesterday and today that Theo Francken is a racist. I won't let you label my party racist. I won't take it! If I did, I wouldn't be in the party. Stop it!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u112	I can follow the speaker in part. Those who read the document on asylum and migration find many terms such as combating abuse, increasing efficiency, expulsions, criminal sans papers, profiles unsuitable for the labour market, the scourge of the quick thefts and control of the patrimony abroad and the wealth. With this, I would like to say that it is being posted that everything will be different and better, while, when I read all this, I do not think anything will change. First of all, I think that in our country we need a serene approach, and I also advocated this yesterday when discussing the chapter on work and employment, a positive migration policy, in a positive atmosphere. But I find just one word in the coalition agreement that may refer to it a little bit, and then again. We also need to discuss social dumping. I would also like to know exactly what is meant by "circular migration', which apparently is about work and work. Secondly, I believe that our country, a civilised country worthy of asylum, should have a proper asylum policy. For years, I have been disturbed by the fact that migration and asylum are being thrown into a pile, which are often very different realities. Dear partners of opposition and majority, I think we should go beyond the negative wording in the government agreement so that we can hopefully formulate a more positive migration and integration policy in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u113	Mrs De Coninck, I agree with you when you say that we must have a serene debate and a positive policy. I agree with you because I do not believe that we should give a selective reading of the chapter on asylum and migration. There are once again one-sided examples. However, may I draw your attention to a number of other examples?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u114	If I am allowed to finish my speech, you will see that I will address other aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u115	It is quite clear in the government statement that we are going for quality care which is geared towards the weak, to women with children and to unaccompanied minors. They need the right shelter. I am also talking about the need for special measures. I am very grateful that this was included in the coalition agreement. As far as unaccompanied minors are concerned, we want to avoid having to deal with new Scott Manyo. We need to ensure additional protection by allowing the combination of asylum applications and additional protection. We must find a solution for the stateless. Until now, we have not been able to provide for a rapid and efficient procedure for stateless people. We must find a solution for non-removable foreigners. We must continue the fight against trafficking in human beings. We must also strive for a resettlement policy, because everyone knows that the weakest do not even get to us and get stuck in refugee camps. We want to implement the resettlement policy, which includes the agreed quotas. What does circular migration mean? Instead of saying that no one is getting in, we say, like the Netherlands, that some of us can come and work for a while. As you know, more than 50 000 people in our country are already able to work every year by means of a regional employment permit and the residence permit attached to it. Beyond that, we also want to create opportunities for those who want to work here to gain experience and return with that experience. We are also working for a humane, efficient and effective return policy, with which we do not want to fool people. The figures indicate that 70% of asylum seekers are rejected. We should therefore perhaps start by making it clear to the people that if they are rejected, and that is a great opportunity, we will continue to build their future in their own region or country. In fact, your group, the Green Group and other groups have also fought for this in the previous legislatures. Think of the return coaches in the shelters. Well, the coalition agreement states that we will do so now. Mrs Fernandez, if you present a list, then you must ensure that your list is complete, by which I mean that the positive things must also be included.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u116	If you let me finish my speech, you will see that I bring some positive points. But I should be allowed to move forward in my inquiry! Mr President, Mrs Lanjri should have been asked to be included in the discussion, as you did with my colleague earlier. I note that we are continuing in the "two weights, two measures".
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u117	Mind if I finish? Where does the government agreement say that we will take the nationality of people born here? It doesn't say anything. The possibilities will be looked at and expanded. I do not like to use the word lying, but I would also like to say where you read this in the coalition agreement. It doesn't say that!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u118	Mr President, I would like to inform you that the Labour Party has been disappointed by Mr Francken's apologies, which have lasted only thirty seconds. Little came back to the content, namely whether a graduation is being made in the added value of the different nationalities present in our country. I wish there had been a clear excuse and self-criticism as to whether those values are correct or not. That was important because it concerns precisely the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, who thus exercises the function of determining who is allowed in and out of our country. I can only regret the absence of a clear conviction. That is why we joined the various parties: sp.a, Groen, PS, cdH, Ecolo who asked for a step aside from Mr Theo Francken. I really think this would have brought a lot of serenity to the debate, because it concerns fundamental issues. What I find unacceptable in the agreement that is being proposed to us today is that there is once again the possibility of locking children up in closed centres. We have been condemned in this respect by international bodies, by Europe. I find it really scandalous that you are going to bring it back today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u119	Mr Hedebouw, you know that you have already exceeded your total speaking time in the debate. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u120	No, we'll make the sum. Mr Calvo, you will have your turn. The speakers shall be indicated in the order in which they report. You don't notice enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u121	Mr President, my colleague has asked for a serene debate, which we also want. However, we are not to blame for not having a serene debate here. I would like to ask Mrs Lanjri and Mrs Demir the following, irrespective of the coalition agreement. After all, as a member of the majority party, I can imagine that you fully support this agreement. That's obvious. The opposite would surprise me. But what do you both think about your Secretary of State's ruling? I would like an answer to that question. This is a discriminatory, racist statement, Mrs Demir, which balances the economic value of certain communities according to their regime and their origins. In the 1960s, policy-makers should have thought about who was brought here. That was 50 years ago, but you forgot. And you forgot that too, Mrs. Lanjri. You have both forgotten what those involved have contributed economically. This is a misguided discussion!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u122	Mrs Smeyers, you have the floor. Mrs. Temmerman, you mustn't always feel stabbed backwards. Mrs. Smeyers raised her hand in front of you. Then it's your turn. We ain't no douchebags here, not even you, Mrs. Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u123	Mrs. Temmerman, I feel as disgusted in time as you do. The President of the Chamber still needs to learn how to look around. But I was first. Give him the benefit of the doubt so he can get used to that high chair. Mrs Onkelinx, Mrs Pehlivan, we have been discussing the coalition agreement for the third day. I repeat what I said yesterday, and I have also heard Mrs Lanjri say that the government agreement is now before us, and that is what matters. If you are both convinced that Secretary of State Francken is a racist and if you are convinced that the N-VA is a racist party, Mrs Onkelinx, please refer to the principle that you know as a lawyer yourself, in particular la séparation des pouvoirs or the principle of the separation of powers, to the authorities that can judge it. Mrs Onkelinx, would you listen to me instead of calling on Mr Francken again? If you are convinced of this, then, according to the principle of the separation of powers, turn to the authorities that can judge it. You may have an opinion. You're free to express that opinion, but you can't convict. There are other bodies for this. Mr President, I would like to make the agreement with Mrs Onkelinx that we do not make that statement here anymore. If she insists on that conviction, she can turn it to the bodies set up for that purpose. Control of the government's policies is from now on also your job, as a Member of Parliament, as a member of the opposition. I invite you to do this constructively with us for the next five years. I hope we can make that appointment from now on.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u124	Mr President, I hope that we can now return to a serene debate. I would very much like to return the floor to Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, because she will probably be able to say a lot about the coalition agreement. Since the debate is going the way it is, I would like to ask for the floor. We have indeed received an apology and we can absolutely accept that apology, Mr Francken. However, you must understand that you are now Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, that you are no longer speaking in your own name but in the name of the government. It's normal for a few things to come up. I was very hopeful when I heard you were going to say something at the beginning of the sitting. I was disappointed by the content: two short sentences. The majority was also disappointed: instead of immediately a raving applause there was first general silence. Everyone was expecting something, just like I expected. Besides, there are people from your own majority who have tweeted: "Apologies are enough, but I still need to hear his version." That is what we are asking for. Mr Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, we ask you very clearly what your policy will be. In the past, before you were Secretary of State, you have indeed said that there is a difference between people from one region and people from another region have more or less economic value than people from another region. Now, in your capacity as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, is this a criterion for the future to judge people? In the future, you will have this discretion. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, it is only natural for us to ask for information on this matter. Again, not only the opposition, but almost everyone in the majority has tweeted that Mr Francken has to explain.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u125	Mr President, I shall be brief, because our group member, Mr Zakia Khattabi, will be taking the floor on this dossier and on this chapter. Unlike some of my fellow Members and myself, I have not forgotten today's meeting of the Conference of Presidents. We have just had a meeting with the leaders of the political groups where it was decided to take yesterday's good, namely the rich substantive debate, but to avoid the inefficiency and the threat of getting bogged down. You have made a clear commitment there, Mr President, to see who is asking for the floor and to consider a break from the banks, including the majority, as on topic; that would not be an additional intervention. Once again, you do not respect the agreements reached at the Conference of Presidents and so we end up again in a debate that blows out and shows a bad picture of politics. Mr President, I would simply like to invite you to respect the agreements of the Conference of Presidents. Otherwise, there is no point in the leaders of the political groups being freed up for that meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u126	There is nothing to prevent you from staying there, but I do not feel addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last night I explained to myself the terms "racism" and "racist". I see that some people are deaf or do not want to hear. This has nothing to do with the Moorish law on xenophobia and racism and therefore to talk about separation of powers and legal action, it is really out of the question! Who said, after me, that the N-VA has racist tendencies? He's the Prime Minister! For once, I agree with him!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u128	The second point I would like to make is that the media has already largely echoed this: you do not only want to increase the number of places in closed centres, which you will recall in passing that they are de facto prisons, you also want to place families and children there. You want to lock up children, Prime Minister! You want to lock up children, Mr. Franken! Beyond the human aspect that this represents, you know that Belgium has already been condemned on numerous occasions by the European Court of Human Rights. But perhaps human rights are for you only a bourgeois convention or, worse, that they do not apply to migrants. The third point says a lot about your simplistic vision of migration and affects both immigration and public health. You are considering sanctioning doctors who make medical certificates of convenience in the context of medical regulation. Medical certificates of convenience! When it is known that doctors of the Aliens Litigation Board never have the opportunity to receive applicants in consultation, on what basis will you then determine that these medical certificates are false? Any sanctions against doctors? Are you going to replace the Council of the Order? Or do you intend to prosecute them? With this sentence, it is not only the fate of the foreigner that you are putting at stake, Mr. Franken, it is also public health. It's not just a scandalous act, it's also irresponsible!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u129	Mrs. Lanjri, will you be brief?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u130	Mrs Fernandez, do you think it should go unpunished for doctors to issue false certificates? In the past, that has already been adapted.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u131	Didn't you hear? I asked questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u132	I'm asking you a question now. You're suing us for taking on doctors who write fake notes. You seem to think that writing out is normal. It is high time we did something about it!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u133	Listen up. Learn to listen to what they say. Finally, Mr. Franken, you are telling us nothing less than the return of the double sentence, a 20-year leap back. One might still be indignant in this agreement, rightly, to see you introduce a tariff for the filing of proceedings at the Office of Foreigners. We might be indignant about the absurdity of your inquiry into the plaintiffs' wealth. But I would miss time, and before I conclude, I want to tell you that the attentive reader finds some positive measures in your text. This is the case with your approach to unaccompanied minors. You see, Mrs. Lanjri! This is the case of your willingness to send a reminder to the holders of a residence card before the expiry of their title to allow them not to lose their rights because of an administrative distraction. This could still be the case with regard to the treatment of aliens who cannot leave the territory for reasons beyond their control. This would possibly be the case with an Immigration Code if it were intended solely to simplify the reading of the existing law. But the general tone of your agreement leads me to warn you that my group is concerned about the meaning you give to these particular points because that tone is that of fear, fear of the other and of difference and the will to instil this fear in the population. It is obviously not necessary, Mr Franken, to tell you that my group will pay particular attention both to the implementation of these measures and to your behaviour. I will end by telling you, Mr Franken, that although I, like many, have a dual nationality, I am proud to be Belgian, unlike you. I love this country. I am proud to be Belgian and I love this country because it has built itself on solidarity. I am proud to be Belgian and I love this country because it has been able to enrich itself with the various immigration flows that have passed through it, including the Congolese, Algerian or Moroccan communities, foreign communities whose representatives here come from and that their presence alone proves the added value of immigration for this country. Mr Franken, unlike you, I am proud to be Belgian and I love my country because despite your Sunday friendships, despite what you will publish on social networks, despite the policies of fear and intolerance that you will implement, no pasarán!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u134	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, you are talking about fear. What scares people in particular is uncertainty. In recent years, there has been a policy of uncertainty in particular: can we stay or should we not stay? The legislation was unclear. Now we have a policy of clarity. People will get an honest answer. The fear is created on your couches, because what I have been hearing from you for two days has frightened me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u135	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I have listened carefully to your passionate speech. Do you, at the same time, distance yourself from someone who calls the Flemings fungus "Merrules," in general, not some Flemings, but all Flemings, as your group leader did in 2007? Do you distance yourself from that?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u136	We're not anti-Flamands! We are Belgian!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u137	Mrs Dumery, I understand that you are defending the future Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, but let us say things as they are. In the past legislature, the uncertainty in which asylum seekers were found was finally overcome. If we see that the deadlines for dealing with asylum and migration have been reduced to 15 days and three months, then I think that we can no longer talk about long periods of uncertainty, but about a correct and strict asylum and migration policy, in which people in need of care are effectively received within a reasonable and short period of time, and others, which is sometimes unfortunate, get the message to leave the country. I hope that the current Secretary of State will read it in the coalition agreement that policy will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u138	Mr President, Mrs Dumery, as Mr Ducrame has just said, you are in line with the measures taken in the previous Parliament. There's no change! Mr. Ducrame said that ten minutes ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u139	Colleagues, Secretary of State, Mrs Van Cauter, Mrs Dumery, Mr Delors, Mr Delors, Mrs van Cauter, Mrs Dumery, Mrs Dumery, Mr Van den Broek, Mrs Van den Broek, Mrs Van den Broek, Mr Van den Broek, Mr Van den Broek, Mr Van den Broek, Mr Van den Broek, Mr Van den Broek, Mr Van den Broek, Mr Van den Broek, Mr Van den Broek, Mr Van den Broek, Mr Van den Broek, Mr Van den Broek, Mr Van den Broek, Mr Van den Broek, Mr Van den Broek, Mr Van den Broek, Mr Van den Broek, Mr Van den Broek, Mr van Raay, Mr Van den Broek, Mr Van den Broek, Mr Van den Broek I think this was the difference Mrs Dumery wanted to show. Mrs Van Cauter, effective, the second sentence should reassure you. You know him as well as I do: "The federal government continues its course. With regard to asylum and migration policy, too, this government continues to pursue the policy pursued by the previous Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, which is a coherent, performing, quality asylum and migration policy that we will make even more coherent, even more performant, even more qualitative, together with you. In fact, for the first time in 25 years, this government will be fully capable of pursuing a policy that has been demanded by the population for decades. Colleagues, three principles remain at the heart of this. Firstly, anyone who complies with international and national standards will be able to benefit from our protection. Those people are welcome. At the same time, we are moving towards more labour and student migration. Secondly, we want clear and uniform rules. This government reaffirms its ambition to establish a new and clear migration code. This clarity has the advantage for asylum seekers and migrants that they immediately know what can and cannot be done. Thirdly, we want a firm but just return policy, the motto of which, as Prime Minister Michel said, is forced to do so voluntarily if possible. Return policy will give priority to those offenders for whom the principles of our rule of law are a piece of paper. I would like to clarify some of the policy aspects. I would like to focus on some of the key points of the government agreement, which we also want to change further in the area of asylum and migration. Individual regularisation remains possible, but will henceforth be the ultimate exception when the government has failed and when migrants have been staying here for years and have been fully settled. In this case, the new Secretary of State's full, discretionary and exclusive power to sign the regularisation should there be good grounds for doing so. Collective regulation is not going to happen anymore. Indeed, a government which must proceed to collective regularisation in the previous legislature did not, unfortunately, recognise and confess to be unable to pursue a sound asylum and migration policy. By stepping into the story of a general every so many years, newcomers, especially illegal immigrants, will be encouraged to remain on our territory for as long as possible. This government is no longer sending out the message that illegality is rewarding. We have a humane and correct asylum policy. Medical regularisation remains possible if adequate medical care cannot be provided in the country of origin or if the person concerned does not have access to that medical care in the country of origin. Mrs Lanjri, here too we are right to ensure that we do not abuse our hospitality and our social security. The filter that was built in by the previous government, by making the Foreign Affairs Office work with its own doctors, the supervisory doctors, is of course preserved. Furthermore, this government will work on the fight against false doctor's notes. That seems logical to me, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez. The whole chain of all those involved will have to inform the government correctly, which will then allow a correct and correct decision to be taken to allow medical regularisation. The number of shelters has already been structurally reduced by the previous government. During the previous legislature, the number of reception places fell from 24 000 to around 18 000 places. The government wishes to continue along this path and to continue to reduce reception. However, this does not mean that we are blind to the international context in which Belgium finds itself. We are not blind to the conflicts in Syria, Iraq and Ukraine. We are aware that it is causing a huge increase in people who are forced to flee their country. The coalition agreement therefore rightly and unequivocally provides for sufficient buffer capacity to absorb the additional influx. Those people will be welcomed by us with open arms, because we in the West are able to catch these people fleeing the purest barbarism and temporarily take them under our wings until the situation in their homeland stabilizes again.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u140	Mrs. Smeyers, I'm rather charmed by your last sentences. They underline our country's humanitarian tradition. I have a very precise question. You refer to the misery in Syria, Iraq and on the border with Turkey. You will no doubt know that two million refugees are currently at the border of these conflict zones. They are fleeing horrible barbarism, which we also sometimes witness. In recent months, during the current period, the government has responded to the United Nations' call to grant asylum to a number of people in our country. We have taken our responsibility between quotes for no less than 75 people. You quote from the coalition agreement and say that you are aware of the misery there. Do I hear you say that this number will be increased very soon? In the coming weeks, will we talk even more about the UN's demand and include more than 75 asylum seekers in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u141	Mr Bonte, I think you are referring to the principle of resolution. I am talking here about the policy of the CGVS, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. Of course, in accordance with the Geneva Convention, anyone who applies for asylum and is eligible for it will be protected in the alternative. The Syrians, the Iraqis or the Ukrainians fleeing their country will be welcomed by us. That's just normal. You're talking about resettlement. (...) Those are two different things.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u142	Mrs Smeyers, I hear you in favour of a very broad humanitarian attitude towards the victims, so to speak, of misery in their home country. From an international perspective, I am rather shocked by the relatively low number of people that our rich country receives from there, particularly exactly 75 people. I therefore ask whether we can send a signal to the United Nations, on the basis of the government agreement and your plea, to increase that number in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u143	Mr Bonte, I will not mention numbers, but I would like to reassure you. On page 105 of the only and unique version of the government agreement, it says that the federal government, in cooperation with UNHCR, will continue structuralally to deploy on resettlement, which is what you are asking for from vulnerable refugees and implementing the agreed growth path. Maximum opportunities will be provided for consultation with cities and municipalities within a European framework. I hope that is an adequate answer to your question. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to ensure that the pressure on the reception network does not increase indefinitely, the principle of subsidiary protection will henceforth be reviewed. Subsidial protection had de facto become a permanent right of residence, where EU directives and our own legislation have always regarded it as a form of temporary protection. If the danger has disappeared in the country of origin, subsidiary protection will end and those concerned will have to return. I would also like to explain the reasons for this. This approach, in order to control subsidiary protection recurrent, should enable us not to put pressure on the reception network over and over again, but to gradually reduce the occupation in the reception places, but to maintain a buffer capacity, without abandoning our international obligations to meet every asylum seeker in a proper way.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u144	I think that is a very strange reasoning. Mrs Smeyers, in subsidiary protection there is a reception period, but then there is integration into society. If I understand you correctly, it will all go much better. The asylum seekers are therefore not staying in the shelter. With your policy and, above all, with the policy that will now also be pursued in Flanders, they will enter society very quickly. They'll work, they'll have kids, those kids will go to school and so on. You mentioned the people from Syria earlier. Let us be honest, the conflict in Syria will not be resolved tomorrow. Anyway... There's five years of subsidiary protection. Now suppose that people with subsidiary protection are staying here for three years and children have been born or they have older children who go to school here. Those people are integrated and working here. Yet you say that it was only subsidiary protection and that they have to go back. Mrs Lanjri, I asked Mrs Smeyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u145	I'd like some quick answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u146	You're doing a selective reading. Of course, this way we can prove everything. You are talking about the residence permit for persons receiving subsidiary protection. Suppose the situation is resolved, but these people are integrated here. It is clear here that the degree of anchoring of the person concerned in our society will be taken into account in any termination of the right of residence by the DVZ. We will not send back people who have been integrated here for years. We haven't done that before, and we won't do that in the future either. We shall continue to watch over this. You can sleep on both ears.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u147	Mrs Lanjri, I had read that very well in the agreement. That is why I did not put the question to you, but to Mrs Smeyers. Mrs Smeyers made it very clear in her speech that these people, including Syria, should return when the conflict is resolved. That is why I put the question to Mrs Smeyers and not to you. I do not want to hear what you think, I want to hear what Mrs Smeyers thinks about that. Mrs Smeyers has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u148	The question has been put to Mrs Smeyers. She'll answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u149	I'll answer them, Mrs. Temmerman. You're so fond of throwing everything in a pile. You apparently assume that anyone who is eligible for subsidiary protection will automatically stay here for more than five years. That is exactly what we want to avoid. Subsidial protection, as you said yourself, is initially given for five years, but we will be checking whether the situation in the home country has changed after three years or five years. If the situation is changed, so it's safe, and that person can go back, it'll go back. I also said at first... [[Objections to the banks]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u150	Mr. Smeyers, please continue. You have a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, the government will focus even more explicitly on return policy, which the previous Secretary of State may have wanted to do, but not from certain points of view. Voluntary if you can, forced if you have to. We will make it clear to the newcomers in regular care from day 1 that they may not be eligible for residence papers. Return coaches will be used in the reception centres from day one. But we can't be naive. Not everyone participates in a voluntary return journey. Some choose to disappear into illegality. The government will focus on rationalising the follow-up of orders to leave the territory. It will no longer be possible for illegals to disobey orders after orders. Priority I have already said will be given to the offenders. Ladies and gentlemen, after years of staggering treatment of this policy area, not to mention neglect of this policy area, Mrs Van Cauter, you are already plotting, and my sentence is not yet finished, with the exception of the turnaround that has taken place in the previous legislature, the government will change its mind with bold policy choices. Newcomers will soon know how and what. We are going for clear rules. This must help to ensure that, as a newcomer, people know quickly whether they are recognised or not. With respect, as stated in the coalition agreement, colleagues, for both those who come new and those who welcome them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u152	Mr President, as my group has been questioned on many occasions, I would like to explain the meaning of the little badge I am wearing. It is linked to international action on tomorrow's poverty reduction day. Prime Minister, you would close your speech on Tuesday by questioning us. You represent everyone, you said, the Nation. Through you, I am speaking to all of our citizens. Let me then, Prime Minister, to answer you, speak to me about this fringe of our fellow citizens who are voiceless; of those who live on the margins, who do not bring back, it is true, nothing electorally. But their fate is a fundamental indicator, I believe, of the state of our democracy. This chapter on asylum and migration is emblematic of the general climate of the future that you are preparing for all of us. So when, Prime Minister, you treat abuse and the criminal exception as the rule, when you only apprehend asylum through the prism of cheaters, fraudsters, and when you make a shift between asylum and security policy, and when you put at the helm of these policies a person whose reputation is no longer to be done, we can only worry. Allow me, at this stage, a small incise as to this casting. "I can include the added value of the Jewish, Chinese and Indian diasporas, but less that of the Moroccan, Congolese or Algerian diasporas." As for me, Prime Minister, I have no doubt, no doubt, about what the characters who hold this kind of speech have brought to our country. There's nothing to be proud of. You thus force me through this casting, to deal with someone who ostensibly displays his contempt for a part of the Nation – in particular for me, but let's say that this is only a detail – and against whom I would, as far as I am concerned, have practiced the cordon sanitaire. So I will address you, Prime Minister. Prime Minister, we do politics, but, it is true, we remain, each and every one of us, men and women with a history. You yourself mentioned your grandparents yesterday. Allow me here to pay tribute to mine and to those of all those diasporas who participated, in their own sense as well as in the figurative sense, in the construction of this country. This tribute resonates particularly in this year of commemoration of the 50 years of Turkish and Moroccan immigration.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u153	Mr President, I would be grateful if Mrs Khattabi would excuse my interruption. But, in fact, his words resonate with great intensity. I would just like to ask the Prime Minister and Mr Franken if they remember what May 1940 was for the Gembloux region. At that time, the French army and other allies sought to curb the advance of the German panzers. In this action, the first Moroccan division – three regiments of Moroccan tirailers – is engaged, as well as two regiments of Algerian tirailers and several regiments of African tirailers. More than 200 people will live there. In total, over 2,000 Moroccan soldiers will be killed for Belgium's independence in the entire May-June 1940 campaign to curb the German offensive. Is this not value added? Another point, Mr Franken, Prime Minister: do you know what silicosis is? It is this progressive lung disease that causes fibrosis, which causes the choking of those who suffer from it. This is typically the disease of miners, and among them, besides Italians, Greeks, many Moroccans, Turks, Algerians have worked in the coal mines of Wallonia and Flanders, Limburg, the region of Liège, Hainaut and elsewhere. Is this not value added? Many died of it. At this important moment when we are thinking about what the government's policy on key issues will be tomorrow, I am not ashamed to say that I am Belgian and proud to be, the son of a father from Moroccan immigration. And I tell you, Mr Franken, when we begin to prioritize people according to their origins and their so-called added value, I, too, agree with Francis Delperee and the Prime Minister, to say that all this has racist hints! [[Applause on the opposition benches]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u154	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to return to your government statement. You've drawn up a list of what we can't find in this agreement. However, on this occasion, you have highlighted only what suits you. Let me complete this list. There is no word about living together, about managing our diversity, about solidarity with the victims of the dramas that are played around us. You are probably unaware, Prime Minister, that, since the beginning of the year, the International Organization for Migration has counted 4,077 migrants dead in this world, three quarters of whom, namely 3,072, in the Mediterranean. This is the highest number ever recorded. It is far ahead of the 2011 peak in the Arab spring, when 1,500 migrants died in the first nine months of the year. While Belgium is sending its F-16s to wage war in Iraq, there is not a word in your statement about the protection Belgium is prepared to provide to the victims, not only of the Islamic State, but also of the war in which we are taking part. The Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons recently felt it necessary to remind politicians that the international situation has changed, that the scale of the conflicts in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan is leading to a legitimate increase in the number of asylum seekers worldwide. It must be admitted and taken into account. Prime Minister, you commit yourself, in another chapter, to the enforcement of all sentences and sentences. Let me tell you that you are not setting an example. The first statement of your Secretary of State concerned the creation of places in closed centres to allow the confinement of families with children, while Belgium has been condemned on several occasions in this regard. If you want to be credible, Prime Minister, start by taking into account the convictions of the Belgian State and stop believing that it is above the law. Prime Minister, I have been looking for the positive measures of your asylum program. Let us be well aware that the drafting of a Migration Code to make the law more readable could be a good thing. The desire to improve the quality of the procedure goes in the right direction, but the avenues envisaged are particularly unclear. In this regard, allow me to make a suggestion. It has been a long time since my group called for a clear list of regularisation criteria and for them to be included in the law. Prime Minister, we agree with you on your concern to bring the keys to successful integration. Nevertheless, integration by and in its various dimensions – you yourself refer to education and employment – is the responsibility of the federated entities. I'm curious to know more so I can support you. On the other hand, you broaden and even relax the criteria for granting nationality to economic merits. Mr Bernard Arnault will no doubt be able to reintroduce his application for nationality! I live, Prime Minister, in a municipality in Brussels where it becomes impossible for the middle classes or the popular classes to gain access to the property because tax refugees elect to live there. These same tax refugees are seeking protection because they are fleeing the too heavy taxation of their big fortunes. We understand, indeed, that they deserve your full attention! Prime Minister, you are committed to transposing the Asylum Procedure Directive within the deadlines. But agree, Prime Minister, that if we are reduced to happy that you are simply fulfilling our international obligations, we are far away! In another non-linked register, I quote: "Equal opportunities will be actively promoted and all forms of discrimination will be combated. The government will apply zero tolerance to discrimination, especially in the labour market." We can only applaud and support your voluntarism in these matters, until we read, Prime Minister, the following sentence: "The implementation of this policy will not entail any additional burden." Agree, Prime Minister, that you are not helping me find elements that could be unreservedly supported. You temper - it is a euphemism - yourself systematically what could be seen positively. I will take a final example: "The government will work at European level to create a framework for the optimal use of the potential of economic immigration". So you plead for a chosen immigration. It is not my choice, but it is not the debate. You immediately complete by saying: "The government will take the necessary measures to prevent the implementation of bilateral agreements from producing unintended effects". It's almost laughable because it's caricatural, Prime Minister! There are still some areas of shadow that we will come back to more precisely and systematically during the hearing. What do you think of when you commit to further clarifying the Family Reunification Act? With regard to MENA, we are talking about strengthening protection through harmonised registration; what harmonisation is involved? Prime Minister, if I started by speaking to you, let me conclude by addressing our fellow citizens. It is obviously not a question of favouring one category at the expense of another; your government is doing very well. We simply refuse to compete with the victims of the various crises that we are going through. Our concern in reading this chapter is that it augurs well for those who will gradually be the weakest among us. In other times and circumstances, Prime Minister Martin Niemöller said nothing else.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u155	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Secretary of State, I will strictly abide by this coalition agreement. I guarantee you that this government will respect all international and European rules of law. Let there be no doubt about that. Mrs Temmerman, you are asking me a specific question about the use of my discretion in the granting of 9a and 9b, i.e. whether or not to grant medical or humanitarian regularisation. I am telling you very clearly that this will not be done on the basis of economic considerations. That will not be a hidden economic migration channel. That is not the case now and will not be the case, and I am quite clear about that. The discretionary powers that I will use as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration will be the procedure under Article 9a, for humanitarian reasons, long stay or very strong integration, and the procedure under Article 9b, for medical reasons, a very serious disease. You know these procedures. I would like to make it very clear that I do not want to make this a hidden economic migration. Let's make that very clear. Then I come to the speeches by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez and Mrs Khattabi. They say: "On every line I feel uncomfortable with this coalition agreement. Every line of the chapter Asylum and Migration makes me uncomfortable. It's said to be stigmatizing, strict, hard and inhumane. Is this also about the line that talks about better dealing with victims of trafficking through more interdisciplinary cooperation? Is this about the line that we are finally going to combat the abuse of the au pair statute by means of new legislation, after consultation with the regions? Or is it perhaps about the line in which we say that people whose alien card expires for unlimited stay will be notified in advance by the government? That's a matter of courtesy. The Aliens Office will report that the alien card is due to expire and that a new card must be registered so that it cannot cause potential problems. It is often not seen that the alien card has expired or that no one has communicated it to the person concerned. This government is finally going to introduce it. Or is this perhaps about the line on unaccompanied underage aliens? The line in which we say that we will work out a solution on the basis of the Lanji bill, which states that there should be no gap between 18 years and obtaining a right of residence. Think of the stories of Scott Manyo and Parwais Sangari, young people who fall out because they have not received asylum just after 18 years. During that period they may be illegal in the country and can be arrested. That is also in our coalition agreement. Or is it perhaps about the provision that we go for short procedures by introducing a migration code? Clear, shorter procedures, such as those already in place in our neighbouring countries, will finally be introduced. Or is it perhaps about the provision that visas for temporary stay will finally be delivered more quickly to our embassies? This often leads to major problems. Everyone knows the stories about visas for temporary stays. For example, someone wants to come to this country for a wedding party, but does not get the visa for temporary stay in time, so he misses the party. We are going to ensure that those visas for temporary stays are issued more quickly. Or is it perhaps that small group of people who cannot voluntarily return to their country of origin? Refugee work Flanders has been calling for this for years. In this coalition agreement there is a clear commitment to this. We are going to find a sustainable solution for that target group. Or maybe it's about circular migration? They asked what this means exactly. Well, that is a system in which work and study are crucial, which can also contribute to the country of origin. This already exists in a number of countries, and we too are now working on it. There are a total of ten to fifteen lines in this coalition agreement. However, you claim that the whole chapter on Migration and Asylum is full of stigmatizing provisions that label people as fraudsters and fraudsters. There are ten to fifteen provisions in this coalition agreement which clearly go beyond what is possible today and offer very clear solutions to difficult target groups. These are provisions that make it clear that the migration story must be a correct and humane story. That's what the coalition agreement says! Secondly, I come to the issue of families with children. It was said that in my first interview I unpacked the fact that we were going to lock up the families with children back. That's not right, that interview you probably read, Mrs Khattabi's talking about the whole area of migration, about the whole part of migration, about asylum, about international context and about resettlement, all these things are covered in that interview, and two things are highlighted. The first thing that is highlighted is about families with children. It is said that this cannot be done by Europe, that the European Court of Human Rights has condemned us and that families with children should not be locked up in the context of an expulsion process. That is not correct, the European Court of Human Rights has said that in the accommodation of 127bis there is a clear violation of the right to privacy and the right to family life, two crucial concepts in the ECHR. After that conviction, it was rightly decided to stop it. But it's not about the principle. Such a system exists in all our neighbouring countries and in almost all European countries. We have a problem with the turdhouses. We couldn't lock up families with children, because there was no decent accommodation. Again, that was a very wise and good decision. Turtel houses were founded, Mrs Turtelboom started doing so, allowing people to leave voluntarily. It is seen that this has less and less effect. This leads to a great deal of frustration, including with the return coaches, the social assistants working on the return journey. Previously, about 25% of the people escaped, they left just before their flight was booked. In 2014, I requested it from my administration, this is already 41 %. So there's a problem. The most important point is that what we are doing is not new, it is the implementation of a decision by a previous government. I have also asked for the whole history of that dossier once, and I have received a very interesting note from my Director-General, Mr Roosemont. Single family homes in 127bis, the housing units, chronology of the file: October 2009, start of the file. 22 February 2010, agreed by DVZ on the agreement of Secretary of State Melchior Wathelet for the launch of file. On 12 March 2010, Didier Reynders replied to State Secretary Wathelet: "All possible steps will be taken to answer the question within a reasonable time. On 22 March 2010, the notification of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the PS, follows budgetary control of the bilaterally accepted appropriations, bilaterally but with notification to the Council of Ministers, and that notification is given to everyone. That's the way it goes. I have to admit, it's a wonderful document. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now at a point where the file has been put to tender by the previous government. If we do not continue with the dossier now, we will have to pay compensation. A company from Bornem received the tender for an amount of between 600 000 and 700 000 euros. If we do not now respond to the dossier, we will have to pay compensation. That choice of compensation was not made by this government. That is what we decided after extensive consultations. What choice has the government made? The choice we make is a permanent choice for the cottages, being a voluntary story in an apartment, where one can enter and leave, whenever one wants. However, if a family leaves again and if after the first voluntary attempt the family is caught again, it does not go back to a turtle house, as is the case now. In this way, we will continue to run the same rounds. In this case, a procedure at the Centre will be developed for as short a period as possible, in which, ladies and gentlemen, the right to privacy and the right to family life under all the articles of the European Convention on Human Rights will remain intact. In the Netherlands, such a procedure takes two weeks. She can be even shorter for me. You should talk to people on the field, especially the return coaches, who are now working on the turtle houses. The current situation gives rise to a great deal of frustration among the social assistants involved. We should not be blind to that either. That is why the passage in question is in the coalition agreement. The next point concerns the closed centres. The ambition is to increase the return of 1 000 asylum seekers through forced return. These are preferably people with a delinquent past or people from prison. That's right. That's the ambition. I'll explain why that's the ambition. We are currently in the closed centres with 481 seats. That's the lowest minimum there's ever been. Under Patrick Dewael as Minister for the Interior, under Mrs Turtelboom as Minister for the Interior, under Mr Wathelet and Mrs Milquet, all ministers responsible for Asylum and Migration, there have never been so few places in closed centres. Is that a problem? Yeah, that's a problem in practice. We find that when a person who is illegal is caught, the person concerned is not caught; he is caught because he has done something, the police are very often very frustrated, because each time he or she is given an order to leave the territory voluntarily within 30 days, because there is no place. We will therefore have to go for an increase in capacity. There are 481 places at the moment, of which 440 are occupied. That is because one must always have a buffer with the male-female ratio, the movers, reservations, exemptions and what happens in the council chamber or in the Council for Foreign Affairs. A few years ago there were 610 seats, ladies and gentlemen. I'm telling you to get another 610 seats? No, but I do think it should be possible in the short term, knowing that the renovation of wing 3 in Merksplas will be delivered in July by the Regie der Buildings and the renovation of some wings in Vottem will be completed in August next year. We know that a number of places can be released within the current budget, with the clear possibility of ensuring that fewer orders are issued. Now it is working very freely, which is of course very frustrating, both for the police and for the victims, because let us not forget those people either. A number of questions were also asked, ladies and gentlemen, about the economic aspect of granting Belgian nationality or not. For the record, nationality legislation does not fall within my competence, but under that of Minister Geens, the Minister of Justice. That agreement was also made during the government negotiations. If you will allow me, I would like to comment on this aspect. Now there are a number of criteria: exceptional cultural or sports merit and exceptional social merit.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u156	With a social added value.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u157	With a social added value. Thank you, Mrs Van Cauter. We were of the opinion, as stated in the coalition agreement, that it should be possible, provided that a proper definition, on which careful consideration is still needed, to ensure that exceptional economic merits are matched, and to that end also to lay down the urgency procedure for naturalisation, the exception procedure, discretionary with the Chamber. That was our judgment. We did not understand the logic why sport, culture and particular social merits were not eligible, but economic merits. This government did not see fit to do so and did not see the logic of it. How we will work that out will also be able to be discussed at length in Parliament, because that is not so easy, and we agree on that. Secondly, the withdrawal of the Belgian nationality of persons of dual nationality is expressly limited to Syrian fighters. This will also be reflected in a draft law. We have discussed this for a long time and it is technically possible to limit it to the Syrian fighters. I think it is logical that we should be targeting this target group, as is the case in Great Britain and as has been decided in the Netherlands today. The possible introduction of this measure is also under discussion in France. I would like to stress that it is not, therefore, about other groups with dual nationality. Thirdly, as regards subsidiary protection, the following. Mrs Temmerman, I think the passage in the coalition agreement is very clear and Mrs Lanjri gives a very correct interpretation of it. Internationally, there is no problem from Europe to say that the protection status of discretionary protection is not at the same level as that of asylum and refugee status. In the case of subsidiary protection, an evaluation may be carried out during the first five years, but not after that. We have discussed this for a long time and have decided to make that evaluation, not on a case-by-case basis, but on a conflict-by-field basis. After all, it would be a huge and very expensive administrative operation to have that looked at by officials, which would result very little. Moreover, and as you yourself say, many international conflicts last longer than five years. Assuming that someone from a particular conflict area has been given subsidiary protection, but that the conflict has been resolved after two years, the person concerned can in principle be returned. This is happening in all the other European countries at the moment. Well, we want to build in an additional buffer there, in the sense that the Foreign Affairs Office carries out additional checks on social integration, for example with regard to employment or school children. These criteria still need to be listed, but we can discuss them seriously. However, we will not send anyone who has enjoyed subsidiary protection here back to their home country, although the conflict has fortunately been resolved there, if that person is now well integrated here, works here and has children and has developed a full social network. That person will have a permanent right of residence in our country after five years. That is the only correct interpretation as agreed by the government and incorporated into this coalition agreement. That is also the interpretation you have just indicated, Mrs Lanjri. So much for the points I have noted. If there are any further questions, I would be happy to answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip011x.u158	Thank you, Mr Francken. Are there any comments or comments on this part of the discussion? If not, I can inform you that we will also take a break for technical reasons. We'll take it back at 7:30. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 16 October 2014 at 7.30 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 16 October 2014, at 7.30 p.m.
