ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u2	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, my question concerns the reconciliation of work and family life, and in particular how we can make this combination easier in the future. I do not have to tell you that many people face this problem every day. I have a lot of experience with it myself. It's not just about mommies, it's also about daddies, divorced families and single parents. We welcome the fact that there are some measures in the coalition agreement which should make it easier to reconcile work and family life in the future by making greater use of flexible work organisation. I am sure you know them yourself, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, but I will briefly list some of them. Firstly, it is possible to opt for the annualisation of working hours. In short, one can work longer in busier periods but less in an ordinary week. This can be beneficial for people in co-parenting, where the children are only occasionally in the home. Secondly, it is possible to focus on facilitating sliding working hours, again so that working hours can be more easily adjusted to the home situation or school regulations. Thirdly, teleworking must be possible in certain sectors. If this is extended, there will be fewer movements and much time will be avoided in the future. Fourthly, the government agreement talks about the career account. People can then save free days to go on vacation later for a longer period. Fifthly, and certainly not unimportant to our group, there is the motivated time-credit, of which the government has decided to extend it for one year. In short, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, more work is needed, and many people are aware of that, but this must be made more workable. Flexible work organisation is an absolute necessity for this. I come to my questions. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, in order to develop measures, you need the social partners. Will you get it with you? If not, will you put proposals on the table yourself? More specifically, what timing do you put in front of the expansion of the motivated time loan? This week, I read about a new word called "Bumperpapas." For me, it's the same whether it's mommy's or daddy's. Would you like to encourage measures for these so-called bumper papas? How do you see it? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u3	Mr President, Mrs Gabriels, congratulations on your first oral question on a very topical subject that is not new. The combination of a family with the development of a professional career is a very important and difficult challenge for everyone. You rightly stressed that this is not only a problem for women, but also for men. Like you, I learned a new word this morning, the bumper daddies, a word that shows that men are also in that difficult situation, with a lot of stress for mommies and daddies, but also for the economy. Combining a family and a professional career is not an optimal situation. The federal government wants to keep people working longer. We must put the emphasis on working differently, in a different way than in the past. That's what the coalition agreement says. After all, there are many new phenomena to which we must respond. This means that we need to reform and adapt our careers, as well as labour and social security rights, so as to enable these individual choices to be made at some point in life and in professional careers and to give them more scope for doing so. You're right when you say the federal government can't do that alone. The Regions and the Communities also play an important role in this. I am thinking of child care, a competence of the Regions and the Communities. You have also rightly referred to the social partners, to what extent they wish to contribute. As you know, like my fellow Members, I am a strong supporter of social dialogue. We have included many elements in the coalition agreement, such as a new career model, career distribution, etc. You have also referred to the motivated time-credit. All this must be done as quickly as possible. We have drawn up a number of royal decisions, which are now being submitted to the management committee of the RVA and I hope that the government will be able to take decisions quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u4	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your explanation. We are very pleased that you will do so as soon as possible. Our group is waiting impatiently for the measures to come into force. I would like to stress once again that it is important for us that the government makes the combination easier and not more difficult, as some say. For us, it is logical that the unmotivated time-credit, the time-credit included for example to travel, should be abolished because the system is no longer affordable for those who really need it. I would like to stress once again that the motivated time loan concerns three categories, not only palliative care and care for a sick or disabled child, but also care for a child up to the age of eight. Our group would be very pleased with an extension of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u5	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, Tournai woke up this morning in shock. Indeed, there are 127 redundancies in 3 Swiss in Orcq. It is important to know that this plant is implanted in the local fabric. These dismissals are justified by the fact that the services provided by the company's services platform no longer correspond to the demands of the brands whose business model has changed. As a result of this information, the works council met and management made it clear that it would simply file the balance sheet and then re-create another company, namely 3 Swiss Belgium. It is particularly shocking that today we can close a company to reopen one, tomorrow, by changing the deal and putting on the side a whole series of people. Prime Minister, do you intend to apply the Renault law on the occasion of the closure of this company and ensure that it is respected? This is shocking from an economic point of view. There is a feeling of being faced with a teacher who, standing in front of his painting, erases what is written. In this case, the debts were owed to ONSS, VAT, a whole range of traders, but also to workers, the closure fund being also financed by the public. In addition to this economic aspect, this is also shocking from a social point of view. In fact, if 33 employees are rehired from the present company, they will lose their achievements. This is, in my view, a rather scandalous situation. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what do you intend to do about these redundancies? The Socialist Party, for its part, has tabled a bill on the right of alert in order to be able to react much faster when a company finds itself in a bad position and thus avoid a whole series of dismissals. If I am not mistaken, you have left a door open in the Social Affairs Committee to a development of the Renault law. You mentioned the possibility of reviewing the first phase in terms of communication. What answers can be given to workers in the three Swiss countries? What answers can be given to workers in other companies who fear that they will suffer the same fate? What do you intend to do to address all legal gaps?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Delannois, I fully understand your reaction and your questions. My services were informed last night of management's intention to close the company. As you pointed out, this decision is serious and we are thinking particularly of workers. You also mentioned the importance of the Renault law which, for the moment, is in its first phase, as foreseen by the law. It is therefore still possible to find alternatives to arrive at another solution. I hope that the unions will propose some alternatives in order to avoid the worst and find positive outcomes. Personally, I remain available to provide anything that can help bring about a solution. Your second question concerns the modernization of the Renault law. Yesterday, I gave some explanations about this modernization process. This is first of all an improvement in the first phase where it is still possible to amend the law to the benefit of the workers of such companies and their unions in order to speed up access to happy outcomes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u7	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. I hope that in the coming weeks we can continue to work together, and perhaps have your support for this bill, which is really an alarm bell to prevent it from going too far. I would also like to ask that your Government take steps to repackage employment support.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u8	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my point relates to directives with different meanings depending on their nature. The first directive appears in an email sent on November 5 by a union, the CGSP, to its affiliates. It could be said that on the occasion of the November 6 demonstration, the police members of this union would wear a black armband. Members of the union were asked to treat these officers with respect. Firstly, this directive poses a problem as to the meaning to be given to the respect accorded to those who do not wear the armband. Secondly, as soon as our group leader, Denis Ducrame, showed me the e-mail, I was shocked to the extent that I remembered a royal decree of June 10, 2006, which very precisely defines how the uniform of a police officer is constituted, as is the case for the guards of the peace, for the firefighters, etc. There is a very precise nomenclature, providing for up to the button. The armband doesn't appear in it. Minister, are you aware of this directive contained in the e-mail? Is it part of the information on the basis of which you have just given the directive to conduct an investigation with the General Inspectorate of the Federal Police? You state in a press release yesterday that you are conducting a survey of this inspection on the basis of information collected. We have collected a number of them also in our communes and police areas. The time will most certainly come to detail them further in the light of what you will tell us.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u9	Mr President, Mr Pivin, ladies and gentlemen, following the events of 6 November, an integrated police consultation committee was held yesterday morning and operational debriefings have already taken place with a view to carrying out an in-depth analysis of the various aspects of the demonstration. These have highlighted problems related to the well-being, prevention and protection of the work of police officers. These points will be further elaborated in a survey to be carried out within the consultation committee in the coming weeks. However, it was established that, in the course of this event, the authorities had not provided sufficiently clear guidelines, in particular with regard to the maintenance and restoration of public order on that day. We did not have an answer to that. To this end, I have just contacted the Inspector General of the Inspectorate General of the Federal and Local Police to conduct his investigation of these directives for the police officers in the field. In response to your second question, as a minister, I am particularly disturbed by the news in the press that the CGSP would have asked its police officers on duty to wear a distinctive sign on their uniform that day. More concretely, the police were reportedly asked to wear a black armband as a sign of solidarity but also of recognition, in order to allow the demonstrators to treat these policemen with more respect than the others. As far as I know, this call was not followed by the police. During the demonstration, we did not see any police officers bearing this distinctive sign. Personally, I find it unacceptable for a union to disseminate such ideas or instructions that could be translated as follows: "Don't hesitate to be aggressive with police officers who don't wear any signs but respect those who wear them because they are part of the same union." This is unacceptable! What society do we live in? We expect our police officers – I also insist on the code of ethics of the police services – to refrain in all circumstances from expressing their political convictions and engaging in political activities in the public square. Neutral driving must be the leitmotiv.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answer. You use exactly the right words, namely that it is unacceptable and intolerable. I will allow myself to suggest that a recommendation be made that, in the forthcoming demonstrations, such slogans – I am using this term wisely, I presume – should not be relayed among the demonstrators.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u11	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, we are standing here again. A week ago, we had a lot of questions, and after the meeting of the high-level consultation committee for the police services which took place yesterday following the demonstration on 6 November, we have further questions. You're right to ask for clarity. However, you were given an unclear answer, and none of us understand that. You announced that you would ask the General Inspectorate for an investigation, but it seems rather strange to us that there is a discussion about whether or not a risk analysis had been carried out. I think the answer to that can be given simply. We must also read in the press that the agents must, as it were, be protected with round shields that are not resistant to bricks. Has there been sufficient consideration of the security of the agents? A lot of questions come up to us. So, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you tell us the extra conclusions from yesterday's meeting? We have to note that the Brussels police force seems to have little confidence in the mayor. In your opinion, does the mayor still have sufficient credibility to manage security in Brussels? Do you know whether or not a risk analysis has been carried out? Was that risk analysis enough or not? Should instructions be given, with a view to subsequent demonstrations, on the political suffering to be borne? Have risk analyses already been carried out? There will soon be regional strikes, which may continue to be strikes, but they could eventually lead to a demonstration. If so, what emphasis have been placed in those risk analyses?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u12	Mr President, Minister, last week we were here to evaluate what went wrong during the demonstration in Brussels on 6 November. We had hoped that the study could be completed after the meeting of the High Consultative Committee. However, we are told that this could not be done because of a serious argument in the committee between the unions and the mayor of Brussels on the one hand. There are some statements in the press like: "Don't think you can question me." I'm not standing here in front of a Moscow tribunal. Once again, I find these statements very striking. That reminds me of the statements made last week by the mayor of Brussels. The responsibility lies with someone else, for example with the mayor of Antwerp, and when I read on, I see that the train has also stopped in Mechelen, eventually the mayor of Mechelen will also be responsible, or else the responsibility lies with the material of the police or with the organisation, but she is always with someone else. On the one hand, the same person complains that he is not being heard by your services but, on the other hand, refuses to cooperate when he was given the opportunity yesterday to be heard on the high committee. In short, the attitude of the Brussels mayor is characterised by non-cooperation and by rejection of responsibility, which are the two things that run through the whole as a common thread, as a fil rouge. Minister, your investigation, which I have every confidence in, cannot be made more difficult because the main actor does not cooperate. How should we proceed and will you take this into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Demon, we have a weekly meeting here, with great pleasure, on 6 November. I told you last week what the normal way to conduct such an investigation is. First, the Basic Consultation Committee came together and yesterday the High Consultative Committee. Friday afternoon there was also a debriefing between the various services involved, the local police and the federal police, about that manifestation. Yesterday, the High Consultative Committee found that a number of problems are related to well-being at work and to protective equipment. The High Consultative Committee states that this is its subject matter and that it will continue to work on it. There will be an investigation by the police themselves and within two weeks the High Consultative Committee will come back together to draw conclusions in this area. In that high consultation committee, the course of giving executives and guidelines to police officers was not an issue for further investigation. You are talking about a breach of confidence, but that is essential in all this. That's why last night I called on the Inspector General of the Federal Police to ask me to specifically conduct an investigation to see how that command went. The High Consultative Committee did not think that was its domain and that is why I put the General Inspection on it and gave clear instructions. You're asking about the timing. It is important that the investigation is carried out properly. We should not want to achieve a result too quickly. My estimate is that we will receive a first report within three weeks. As for your question about the suspicion of the police, I do not want to answer that publicly here and now. For me, that is part of the investigation of the General Inspectorate. It is certainly part of the questions we have asked them. Your question about the risk analysis is correct. In fact, the risk analysis was an important issue in the High Consultative Committee yesterday. There was a risk analysis, but the person responsible for safety at work who normally has to agree to such a risk analysis said yesterday during the high consultation committee that he had not done so. That too is part of the investigation. It is therefore being examined whether there have indeed been malpractices. Finally, as regards your question about the risk analyses of the regional strikes, which belong to the local powers. We know that these risk analyses have been carried out, but I cannot say anything about their content here. This is the responsibility of the local police in the various zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u14	There are, of course, still some uncertainties. The Brussels Attorney made a statement this morning about people who were recognized. He also made the following winged statement: "Police agents are not punching ball." They are at demonstrations to do their job and must be respected, even in times of social contestation. For the next actions and strikes, we are in a difficult climate. You must do so, as a minister, so that such wrongdoing does not happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I have every confidence in your investigation. I know you'll be very objective about it. That is necessary, because otherwise there will be hijackers on the coast who are eager to claim that the investigation was not carried out objectively. That must of course be avoided. However, I can also understand the unions. If it takes too long, those people think there's a cover-up. It's a tough word, but they take it in the mouth. We must ensure that this word does not come true. I have every confidence in you for that. In any case, we are dealing with one matter, namely the security of our policemen, who sometimes, as in this case, have heavy tasks to carry out. I have the impression that Mr Mayeur has still not understood that aspect. Minister, whatever the outcome of the investigation, it is up to you to convey that message to him. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u16	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I read with increasing amazement that the Brussels Secretary of State, Cécile Jodogne of the FDF, wants the municipalities in the Flemish Rand to pay for the interventions of the Brussels fire brigades there. The reason she cites in this article is that she wants to recover the rising costs for the fire department in Brussels, read: transfer to the Flemish Rand. Actually, that's cynical and it really pisses off the people in the Flemish Rand. As mayor of Tervuren, I am confronted every once in a while with the dysfunctions caused by the use of the Brussels fire department in those Flemish outskirts. I'd like to clarify this. The motivation, according to the KB, to provide rapid and adequate services to send that fire department to the Flemish outskirts is the speed of intervention. As mayor, of course, I am a strong defender of the principle that the security of the citizen must always prevail, but in practice it appears that in 95% of cases almost always the intervention of the Brussels fire department is simply superfluous because the local fire department, in our case, is already on the spot. A fire can usually only be put out once. This is a waste of resources and, unfortunately, it is not a random phenomenon. I asked myself this morning and in 25% of all the fires in the grape region there are two corpses, including the unnecessary Brussels corps. This is about a lot of resources. Moreover, this is sometimes dangerous because I have been told, and citizens have testified, that in many cases the Brussels firefighters do not speak enough Dutch. This leads to confusion and miscommunications which sometimes endangers people. As a blow to the flames, these additional invoices would be sent to the municipalities, on top of the rising costs already incurred by the fire department reform. Mr Minister, do you see the opportunity or do you have plans to change the parameters of that Royal Decree for rapid and adequate service provision? That is where the problem lies.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Spoormen, I, like you, have woken up today with the same messages. In the current legislation, the 2007 law is based on the principle that every citizen has the right to the quickest adequate assistance. For certain areas in the Flemish Rand, the best place is the Brussels fire department, to provide such rapid adequate assistance. We are probably talking about the fire brigade after 1 January 2015, when the new zones will have entered into force. The law provides that between the zone of the Flemish Rand and the Brussels zone in this case, an agreement can be made to determine the conditions under which billing can be carried out between the two zones and which services can be provided to each other. If that agreement cannot be made, the law applies, which means that anyone who can be the fastest on the spot in the framework of the fastest adequate assistance will be able to do and bill the service. These are the provisions of the current law, with the royal decrees resulting from it. I feel for you. I also come from the edge, albeit not the edge around Brussels but around Antwerp. We have similar problems. Such problems have nothing to do with Brussels and the outskirts, but with the big city, with professional corps and with areas with many volunteers. We must re-examine the royal decree. It cannot be that, if there is no agreement, there can be automatic billing by the professional body. We must therefore re-examine the royal decision and consider whether a more logical reasoning can be developed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u18	Minister, I am glad to hear that you want to keep these implementing decisions under review. Let it be clear that it is not the principle of the quickest intervention that disturbs. After all, that principle is beyond question. However, it is necessary to consider in practice whether the implementing decisions also apply the principle, because this is not always the case, at least in the grape region. I would also like to add that in the case of aid requested by the local fire department for operational reasons, there is no discussion of the place from which that aid comes, which is once again in the interests of the security of the citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u19	I congratulate Mr Spooren on his maiden speech. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u20	Mr Spoorten, the coincidence is that I am chairman of the fire zone you mentioned. I would like to invite you to come to a meeting and follow the discussions there. We may be able to concentrate on putting out fires instead of firing Community fires. Minister, I would like to remind you of what I would call a more serious problem. The day before yesterday I was woken up at an impossible time by Reuters, an international press agency, asking whether it is true that Belgians are registered on a horrible video and whether it is true or not that there is a Vilvoordenaar on it. Since I was awake, I went through the press as quickly as I could and noticed that by name and name and with a reference to information from the intelligence services in that newspaper it was confirmed that it was a Vilvoordenaar. Minister, I can assure you that this is a shock, in our country I think, certainly in our city, in the vicinity of. That makes for insecurity. The first phone I made was to my police commissioner, who told me there was a lot of extra movement in that already difficult problem. Minister, our security services are sloppy to use information to confirm cases to journalists, half-confirm them to police forces and contradict what other intelligence services say. Eventually it took more than 24 hours, after we had completely refuted everything at the local level, before the intelligence services told us exactly what was going on. Minister, we found your policy letter in our mail half an hour ago. The first sentence is: "A safe environment is a prerequisite for the proper functioning of society." Mr Minister, such incidents hypothesize that security. When will order be put in place, including in your police and intelligence services? There's no unit of command right now. People work in scattered battle order. I hope that, six weeks after the discussion on the coalition agreement, this will be clarified.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u21	Mr Bonte, thank you for your question and, of course, sympathise with you. If such information is indeed coming through from the intelligence services as you describe, that is, of course, unacceptable. As a result, I questioned my services about this. At the moment we have no knowledge that Belgian security services have distributed such information about the possible involvement of a Syrian fighter from Vilvoorde. It's not because something like that appears in the press that it matches the facts. I have seriously questioned the services about this, but we have no knowledge that such information would have been disseminated. I also understand that so far there have been no indications of the involvement of someone from your city, Vilvoorde. I don't take everything in the press for what. The issue was investigated and my services did not disseminate that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u22	Minister, this is often the case in politics: press leaks, we know that. I can assure you that from different competing services, the same information went to different journalists. I accept that this should also be addressed through appropriate channels. I take this opportunity and urge you to respond to the signal that mayors, not just Vilvoorde, are giving about the need for additional support for police forces facing the problem. It concerns the revision of the circular. To this day, no mayor knows how to deal with someone who returns. Six weeks after the approval of the coalition agreement, I hope that we will see that as a priority, because that is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u23	Mr President, Minister, over the last few days and hours we have all been able to find another escalation in the conflict between Israel and Palestine. There has been an attack in Jerusalem with five Israeli deaths. Already before that Israeli young people were kidnapped and Palestinian young people were tortured by the police. Today we see Prime Minister Netanyahu making a kind of revenge call to build new Israeli settlements on the West Bank. So we have a spiral of violence. On the other hand, we see movement in a number of countries. We see a country like Sweden which is committed to the recognition of the Palestinian State. We see the British House of Commons adopting a resolution in which the British ask their government to recognise the Palestinian State. In the meantime, more than one hundred and thirty countries have already recognised the Palestinian State. I'll make three findings. Firstly, the current Israeli policy is bankrupt. We've seen that for years. If we open the newspaper today, we can see that nothing is moving. If there is an incident, we make no binding appeals to Israel and the Palestinians to respect peace, but nobody listens. A second observation is that the solution will have to come from Europe, the European Union or individual European Member States. For Israel, the European Union is the most important trading partner, so we have an economic lever in our hands. A third observation. We must take our own initiatives. If we see that there is too little movement at European level, if we see that you, as Foreign Minister, are sticking to that European consensus and that the European Member States are looking at each other without taking action, then I believe that there is a need for a Belgian initiative of your own. We must stop subjecting ourselves to European paralysis when it comes to a conflict which also violates our own interests here. The conflict between Israel and Palestine is not good for the region itself, but it is also not good for our own security. It increases the insecurity in the world and it stimulates Muslim radicalism, even here with us. So, Minister, I have a few questions for you. Firstly, are you prepared to go to a ban on the import of Israeli products from the illegal settlements? Secondly, are you prepared to recognise the Palestinian State in such a way that Palestine and Israel can sit at the negotiating table at the same level? I repeat that this has already happened in Sweden, in the real Swedish coalition, the one with political courage.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u24	Mr President, first of all, I have a point of order. The chairman of the Committee on External Relations is also present in the Chamber. Mr De Vriendt, you may have been absent yesterday, but we had a very long debate on the various points at the request of several Members of this House. I don't see any real evolution since yesterday's answers. I am therefore a little surprised that it was impossible for you to be here to ask your question in committee for such an important debate. We may need to find another procedure so that the same question is no longer asked again the next day. I heard two questions. As far as the first question is concerned, I have always said that we are in favour of labelling the products, but no more than that. A question was sent to the Minister for Economic Affairs in this connection during the previous government. The current government is also prepared to do so, only in Belgium if it is necessary. After all, it was first and foremost a European story, then perhaps it was possible at Benelux level. However, I have always said and repeated in committee that Belgium is prepared to label. Secondly, you are asking for recognition. I also said yesterday that Belgium is in favour of a two-state solution in the region. However, recognition is not a question of principle. We'll go to recognition. The problem is, however, the moment. Is it useful to do that now? I repeat that we are now engaged in negotiations within the European Union in this respect. For the EU to have a strong position in the peace and negotiation process, I think the best solution is to reach a consensus within the EU. I am, of course, prepared to have such a debate with Parliament, as yesterday in committee. I hope you'll be able to come next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u25	Minister, you forget, of course, that there is a new element today, in particular the call for revenge by Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu to approve the building requests for new settlements in Palestinian territory. In other words, this is a new escalation. If you continue to say that we must look at what is happening in Europe and that we must wait for consensus at that level, then nothing will simply happen. In Europe today we are considering a stronger position vis-à-vis Israel. All kinds of documents are provided to the individual Member States. I would ask you to support this exercise and to help defend it at European level. What amazes me greatly is how the Belgian Government uses two sizes and two weights in the field of human rights violations. It is no problem to sanction the Russians in response to the crisis in Ukraine. The same applies to Belarus and Myanmar. However, Israel's violations of international law have been going on for years. Finally, I would like to address the members of the majority in the hemisphere. I know that many members of the N-VA, CD&V, Open Vld and MR are in favour of the green position on Israel and Palestine. I would ask you to sit with the Minister and see how we can strengthen our country's policy on Israel and Palestine. This is necessary, not only in the interests of the Middle East but also in our own interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u26	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, yesterday we again had the opportunity to discuss widely the situation of religious minorities in the world. Today, there is an emergency situation; I think you know it well. She's been doing the chronicle for several months, and now is crucial. This is the death sentence of a young Pakistani woman of Christian origin – since this is the problem in this case. According to some sources, the implementation date would be 4 December. Sentenced for a so-called blasphemy, for drinking water at a source reserved for Muslims, she has been imprisoned since 2010 in difficult conditions, with little contact with the outside world. Her husband is fighting in all the media to try to alert international opinion. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, have you had any contact with our embassies on the spot? What steps have you taken in relation to this situation? There's a real urgency now. Is there an approach at European Union level? Have you sought a condemnation at a Council of Foreign Ministers? Pakistan is clearly in violation of human rights and primarily the freedom to worship. What actions will you possibly take in the coming days to try to prevent this summary and barbaric execution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u27	Mr President, Mrs Matz, yesterday we did address the problem of minorities, especially religious minorities, in certain parts of the world in a more general way. Here you raise an individual case. At the outset, I want to tell you that, from the outset, with our representation in Islamabad, we have followed the situation of this particular case. I confirm to you, and I believe that this gives more weight to the reaction, that on several occasions there have been convictions on the part of the High Representative of the European Union. We will continue along the same lines with the new High Representative, Mrs Federica Mogherini. Belgium plays a proactive role in many cases of minority protection, including religious minorities. In the case of Pakistan, we do so mainly through bilateral contacts, of course, but also through our role in the European consultation on the spot. I can tell you that we will continue, bilaterally and through the European Union, to intervene with the Pakistani authorities. Unfortunately, I cannot guarantee that we will achieve a positive result. In some cases, this has been possible. I hope that by bringing together, even if some do not believe in it in this House, all European diplomacy and European diplomacy itself, we will have the weight to move the Pakistani authorities, perhaps not generally in their attitude towards minorities, but at least in this particular case. In any case, I can assure you that the steps will be taken again, both bilaterally and Europeanly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer. More and more time is running out, as we are approaching the date of 4 December. We are counting on you to "put pressure on the authorities," if you will allow me this somewhat trivial expression. In general, there is a lot to be done, but in this particular case, which has become emblematic of the way in which certain minorities are treated, it seems to me that if we succeed, the European Union-Belgium, in achieving a result, this might show that we have not been left behind because a certain fatalism, in the face of such a situation, can sometimes invade us.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u29	Mr President, Madam Minister, yesterday in committee, you dared to make a strong statement when you said that health would benefit from a standard of growth, not an economy. You have thus succeeded in some kind of magic trick! I don't know if your name is premonitory, but, just you 2015, you turned more than 800 million euros into a bonus for the entire population. You also said, "I want to protect the patient from cost-saving measures." It must be noted that the reality is quite different. Indeed, according to an article published in a Sudpresse newspaper this morning, this is not the case. In fact, Madam Minister, you have prepared two royal decrees that change the patient's share on visits to a specialist. In concrete terms, 70% of consultations with specialists will cost patients an average of 46% more, not for luxury care, as this may be a neurologist's consultation to diagnose dementia, or an emergency consultation, on weekends or at night. Minister, as it is on the patient's back, it is in fact the opposite of your promise to achieve 40 million savings and the opposite of your commitment yesterday in committee. My question will therefore be very simple: will your actions follow your statements? Do you not intend to pass these royal orders?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u30	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we did spend long hours yesterday listening to your general policy note - which you wanted to implement. It must be noted that throughout your intervention, during which you explained to us that you were not going to increase the cost of medicine, that you were not going to reduce its quality, you never explained how you were going to do it. We have come back on the figures: 355 million, 800 million savings. Whether it is one or the other figure, it seems impossible for us to apply your measurements without touching at any time the cost or the quality! It is a pity that the first step you are taking will have cost implications for the patient, contrary to your comments on creativity and innovation that saves a lot of money! I know you're going to get us the magic figure of €0.35 per patient. However, this figure does not apply to every patient but to every consultation, Minister! Therefore, in a country where 10% of the population are known to be reluctant to take care of themselves because of lack of resources, 15% live below the poverty line, taking linear measures, it is – to use a legeoise expression – todi les p'tits that we spot. They are the ones who will have the most difficulties, who will have to choose between taking care of themselves and eating. Whatever the measures taken, the reality of the figures is that you are going to save 33 million euros on the consultations. Actually, it's not even an economy, it's making patients pay more for the bill. My question is simple. Do you confirm the figures published in the press, which explain that 70% of bills, consultations will increase for patients and that, therefore, it will become difficult for residents to pay for them?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u31	Madam Minister, yesterday we were able to have an effective debate on your policy statement in the Committee on Health. I asked you then if you could guarantee that the savings you would make in the sector would not be at the expense of the patient. You have stated that you would provide maximum protection for the patients. I was not the only witness to that, Mr Mathot and Mrs Fonck were there. Today I read the opposite in the newspaper. From 1 January, the visit to a specialist will in most cases become significantly more expensive. This means that the amount the patients themselves will have to pay will increase by half for two thirds of them. Those who will have to visit a specialist on weekends will have to pay three-quarters more out of their own pocket. The figures in the newspaper were calculated on the basis of official RIZIV figures. That means they're correct figures. How do you explain that the price increases, which are in the newspapers today, are at odds with your intention to spare the patients? That is the first question. Secondly, in October, in response to the 2015 budget, to which the RIZIV responded very strongly, you stated that you would seek alternative savings. Today I read the opposite in the newspaper and I have to conclude that you have left that piste.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u32	Mrs Detiège, allow me to be somewhat surprised at the question. We debated this yesterday at 6.5 hours. The rise in the fees did not suddenly appear in the newspaper today. An official report was submitted to the General Council. This was delivered to the committee members of the two committees and was already in Le Soir on 22 October. It wasn't a small article, but it covered an entire page. I assume that the committee members have also taken the trouble to inform themselves. Nevertheless, thank you for the questions. Since the Compulsory Health Insurance Act of 1963, a large number of user tickets have been introduced and the KCE, in its 2012 report, points out that the user ticket system for consultations with the specialist is complex and not transparent, both for the patient, the medical profession, mutuals and INAMI. Instead of leaving the existing system with a mix of brake rates and fixed brake amounts as it is, the knowledge centre proposes a system with fixed amounts. The same thing happened in 2011 with the brake money at the GP. The former minister can testify to that. The current percentage brake system causes an automatic increase in the amount the patient pays out of his own pocket, because it is linked to the doctor's fee. In the event of an indexing or an increase in specialist wages after a medicomut agreement, the brake charge increases. Fixed amounts are more transparent and ensure an optimal effect. I have therefore explained the following. "The patient is at the centre of my policy and that is why the adaptations of the moderator ticket remain very limited. One million eight hundred thousand patients who benefit from the increased procedure will now pay three euros to the specialist. For other patients, a fixed user ticket of 12 euros is introduced to the specialist". As today, there is also a surcharge for weekend, evening and night visits. Nothing changes in that respect. The brake charge paid by the patient increases from 1 January and then mainly with specialists who only visit once a year like an orthopedist or a gynecologist. An ophthalmologist used to do that at 8 euros, and that now turns into 12 euros. For specialists who visit several times a year, such as a diabeticologist, an oncologist or a psychiatrist, the brake fee drops from about 15 euros to 12 euros. In total, this is very important, the additional burden for the patient is 40 million, of which 7 million are compensated by the maximum amount to be charged. The net effect of this measure is about 33 million euros. Other measures I have taken are beneficial to the patient. Thus, the drug bill will decrease by more than 23 million for the patient in 2015 and by 6 million on the implants. As a result, in 2015, I ask for a contribution of €0.35 per person - you have retained well, Mr Mathot - and the poorest are spared. I have already mentioned that the maximum invoicing, an important social safety net for the weakest patients, continues to play and the rise in some fees. The brake charge is no longer indexed as it used to be. In the long run, therefore, it will be more beneficial for patients. It is important to give patients the best care. However, we must also ensure that we can reform and simplify, save, but also invest and dispose of waste. The contribution of 35 cents, which we demand per person per year in 2015 on a package of 100 million euros of patient savings, is minimal. Much greater efforts have been made, both by the public authorities and by the medical industry and healthcare providers. That's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u33	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Yesterday, in committee, we did not discuss your draft royal decrees. I got them this morning and they're very clear. Although you may explain that you inject 8 million for patients who have increased surgery, the fact is that for many other patients, it is 33 million that they will have to leave in addition to their pocket. For some patients who need to benefit from several successive consultations, for example for a patient with dementia, this represents a significant amount. When we make big statements saying that the patient will not pay any more, that you will protect the patients, that these are not savings to be realized but, on the contrary, that we invest in health, let me tell you that your actions do not follow your words in any way! You are advancing the 2012 KCE study, which called for simplification. But you've only read half of it! So let me tell you to go to the end because this study actually says we need to simplify, but it says above all that if we simplify, we will have to make sure that this will not happen on the patient's back. Yet you did the opposite!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u34	Minister, this study is a bit like the Pension Reform Commission. We get what we want from it and not necessarily the whole study. It's exactly the same thing. In this case, we only take one part. Changing, modulating and simplifying was one of the main directions of this study. I never saw in this study that the price paid by the patient had to be increased! I am concerned about the reality of a part of the population who must choose between eating and taking care of themselves and who, tomorrow, will experience even more difficulties, regardless of the increase. You're talking about 0.35 euro increase. Those who will have to call on a specialist during the night will pay an extra €1.06 per consultation. The numbers are adjustable. The reality is that your first step is to increase health care costs. This obviously starts badly for the population as a whole. You say the patient is at the centre of your policy. Yes, he's in the center because he's the one who's going to pay!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u35	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clarity, because you confirm that the patient will actually pay more. You also say that it is about specialists who are only occasionally consulted. Well, Madam Secretary, if a woman is pregnant, she goes to the gynecologist more than once a year. If one has a virus on one's eye, one has to go much more to the ophthalmologist. Some patients often consult the NKO doctor more than once a year. Patients who need to consult a specialist regularly will suffer from your measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u36	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister of Pensions, I listened carefully to you this morning on the radio. I have heard you explain in a somewhat trivial way, as if it were not finally so important, that teachers, kindergarten teachers with 20 or 30 children under their responsibility, teachers working in technical schools, who work in difficult conditions, should work longer (2 to 3 years) to have access to their pension – that's less than what Mrs Milquet says, so it's no big deal! – and that the periods of credit-time that they take to be able to simply pursue their career (4/5 time or half-time) would no longer be counted in the calculation of their pension. As far as this calculation is concerned, you have been less clear as you have said that, as the previous government has done, we could consider revising the tantheme system. In doing so, you have shown a lack of knowledge of the world of work and, in any case, of the world of school that suffers from a shortage of teachers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u37	You know everything!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u38	I know this environment pretty well, Mr. Miller! You have confirmed the deeply unfair nature of your government's social choices. But I'll give you a second chance. We will continue this morning's interview and give you an opportunity to clarify your thinking. Minister, are teachers going to have to, yes or no, work longer in order to have access to their full pension tomorrow? If so, for how long? Will teachers who decide to work at 4/5 times or part-time because their profession is psychologically heavy be penalized when they take up their pension? In other words, will these periods, yes or no, be treated as periods of work in the course of calculating their pension? Do you intend, yes or no, to review again the system of the tyrennials to which teachers are entitled and thus to reduce, in the long term, the amount of their pension?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u39	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, I suppose you have a very comprehensive knowledge of the different workplaces. I trust you to relay the answers I will give you. Indeed, everyone will have to work a little longer. This is not new; it was decided by the previous government. We have made a series of reforms in this direction, and we are continuing them on the basis of the Vandenbroucke Pension Reform Committee. We are inspired by it; we do not make plagiarism. We also have ideas from time to time, and we defend them. In fact, we're going to have to work a little longer. Having said that, everything about misinformation and false information disappoints me somewhat, especially from people with very high responsibilities. We need to bring things back to reality. With the current system of career and early retirement, most teachers will keep an early pension scheme, with the exception of those who have a five-year master's degree, which will exceed the six-month early pension age. When we analyze all the projections, teachers will take their pension between the ages of 62 and 63 and a half. This is the current reality, according to the information given to me by the administrations which manage this file. As far as the calculation of wages is concerned, there is no impact on wages since the system of the tantèmes remains what it is today, that is to say the 55th. It is true that the previous government has lowered the revalorisation coefficient, which is no longer 10% but 5%, and soon even 4% of the years. That's right. But overall, wages and pension amounts will remain the same as they are today, and sometimes even increase slightly, depending on the length of the career. As regards similar periods, a new project will be discussed within the National Pension Committee with the social partners to determine both penitibility and heavy occupations and, of course, whether or not the periods of time credit and career interruption are similar.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u40	Mr Minister, there is one point on which I agree with you, that the filiation is evident between Mr Di Rupo's government and Mrs Milquet's government and yours. But it is not because the previous government was unfair that you must be even more unfair about pensions! What you're saying now doesn't match what you said this morning about increasing career length. You were talking about two to three years this morning. Now, six months. The forecasts have already been divided by four, good news! Nor does what you say about the system of preferences correspond to the general policy note that we will discuss in the next few days. You say that you want to continue the revision of the tantèmes system and thus to lead to lower pension amounts for teachers. And as far as the Pensions report is concerned, you are actually taking what is right for you! This report contains leads that you refuse to consider, although they are essential in relation to the problem of teachers. First, it is taking into account the tenability of the work. Indeed, some occupations are more difficult than others and are performed in more difficult circumstances than others. Secondly, it is the ability to take a part-time pension and give way to young teachers: it is the sharing of working time. Thirdly, it is the alternative financing of pensions. The lightness with which you deal with this issue and with which you spoke this morning is contempt for the school world, Mr Bacquelaine!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u41	Mr President, Minister, before your policy paper was discussed here in Parliament, you showed decisiveness, and last week the Council of Ministers approved the unlimited additional income for pensioners. From 1 January, 65-year-olds or people who have had a career of 45 years may earn unlimited extra income. The previous government laid the foundations for this and I am pleased that you are continuing on that path. Ladies and gentlemen, at last this measure will come, because people must have the choice, must have the freedom to decide for themselves whether, how much and how long they will continue to work after their retirement. Our labour market, economy and social security will benefit from this. Mr Minister, I read in De Tijd today about your proposal for the possibility of part-time retirement. People today have the choice of either early retirement or continuing to work, but you also want to give people the choice of working part-time and retiring part-time. Mr. Secretary, how do you see that? I read that you will ask the National Pension Committee to introduce this measure. That National Pension Committee still needs to be set up, what will be the timing for that? What will that part-time pension look like? What rights do people who retire part-time build up? What does it mean for their full pension if they choose to retire fully?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u42	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the government is indeed in favour of a smooth combination of pensions and employment. I therefore support the proposal of the Pension Reform Committee to introduce a part-time pension. It is a pension that could be taken up from the age at which one can retire early. In concrete terms, the employee then takes up part of his pension, while continuing to work and thereby building up additional pension rights. This system could be an alternative to the systems that exist today, such as time credit and career break. It has many advantages, both for workers and for employers. I am thinking, for example, of a higher pension for employees or of maintaining knowledge for employers. The National Pension Committee, which will be set up in January 2015, will be invited to further develop that idea. At its meeting on 7 November 2014, the Council of Ministers also adopted the proposals for a law and a royal decree which ensure that the maximum amounts for the permitted occupational income that may be combined with a pension are abolished from 1 January 2015. As a result, a retired older than 65 years can earn unlimited extra income from 1 January 2015. The same applies to pensioners who have had a career of 45 years, even if they have not yet reached the statutory retirement age. I strongly support the freedom of choice for older people who wish to pursue a professional activity after their 65th or 45th or career. It is important to stress that this will soon be possible through our measures, while maintaining their pension in full. This will bring about the government's commitment to lift the limits on permitted work at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u43	Mr President, Minister, I would like to stress with you the importance of this freedom of choice. It is essential that any action we take should be encouraged so that people have a desire to stay at work. There is also a need for many other measures. After all, it must be bearable to keep working. Let me give you the example of BMW in Germany, where a pilot project was launched a few years ago in a particular location to make working longer for older people bearable. A lot of adjustments were made in the plant itself and it turned out that older workers could very well compete with other establishments, where much younger people worked. On this basis, BMW decided to make those adjustments in other locations as well. We must take this into account in our policies and ensure that we give people freedom of choice and allow them to stay longer at work. That seems essential to this government and our group will support you in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u44	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you are aware that, since the beginning of the month, a new strain of avian influenza has appeared in neighbouring countries. So far, the virus has been mostly known in Asia (China, Japan, Korea). A first case was detected in a German herd, another occurred a few days later in the Netherlands, in the Utrecht region, a few blocks from the border with our country. Now a new problem has arisen in the United Kingdom. We have observed that the Netherlands has taken various measures to deal with the few cases of H5N8 avian influenza detected, such as the temporary ban on the transport of poultry, eggs and feces; some farms have been slaughtered, others remain under control or quarantine. In addition, the media has told us that in Sweden the Ministry of Agriculture has called for various measures to be taken. For example, farmers must confide their poultry in order to avoid contact with migratory birds; the migration period of some species is still in progress. Among the cases of avian influenza detected, some are therefore located at the borders of Belgium and concern us more directly. From there, my questions. Could you give us an update on the current situation? What preventive measures have been taken to deal with this virus in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u45	Mr President, honourable Member, the information you provide is strictly accurate, including the measures taken in Sweden. Nevertheless, I have to complete them. In fact, today, a second case was communicated to me as appeared in the Netherlands; a second one is concerned. At this stage, we do not yet have all the information on this new home, except that it is located between Amsterdam and Rotterdam. It concerns a holding of laying hens. These included turkeys in Germany, chickens and laying hens in the Netherlands and ducks in England. Thus, all around our country, various homes are gradually emerging. In this respect, in addition to the European monitoring, the exchange of information between food safety agencies, various measures are always rigorous in our country. These include the containment of poultry, particularly in areas and migratory areas of birds that are likely to spread this highly contagious virus. In addition, poultry producers are known to report unusual mortality on their farms. Our neighbouring countries have decided to slaughter, protect and ban the transport of poultry. It should also be noted that this disease is not transmitted as such to humans and is transmitted only through a number of direct contacts between the animals concerned. It should also be pointed out, so as not to create panic among consumers and our fellow citizens, that there are different strains. This is the H5N8 strain. Various strains of this virus exist, widespread throughout the world. The situation therefore requires permanent monitoring. I am informed, several times a day, of the development of the situation. Depending on any developments in neighbouring countries, we would be required, together with the AFSCA, to decide on additional measures that could be transport bans, additional confinements or other provisions. I will not fail to keep you informed, very closely, of the impact on public health but also of the economic impact on the farms concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u46	Minister, thank you for these fairly reassuring answers. This could clearly cause a public health problem. Fortunately, we're not there! As you pointed out, it is also an economic issue for the poultry sector that is important in our region and a daily reality in the rural world to which you, like me, are very attached.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u47	We congratulate Mr Burton on his Mayden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u48	Madam Secretary, at the moment, a 24-hour strike is under way at SNCB Logistics. ACOD Spoor takes action against the uncertainty about the future of the company. I personally believe that such actions will feed the uncertainty among the staff even more. I have also read in the press that only one third of the staff are taking part in the strike. People who do want to work are denied access to the workplace. In this action, the commuter is not the victim, who is not affected by this. However, ladies and gentlemen, the impact on our economy is immense. The importance of SNCB Logistics for our companies, our employers and our employees is not to be underestimated. Many companies, such as Volvo Cars Gent, as Mr Dedecker said, but also the chemicals sector are totally dependent on SNCB Logistics for rail freight. They are often the only partner to offer distributed transport. However much we regret the strike, we have some understanding of this action. After all, the search for a strategic solution for SNCB Logistics has been dragging on for some time. The slope with Deutsche Bahn has jumped. About a year ago, Jo Cornu said in the financial and economic newspaper De Tijd: "There have been exclusive talks with Deutsche Bahn about a partnership for more than six months now. If they fail, maybe we should talk to other partners. Six months is long enough if you ask me. In 2014, Logistics must be resolved. Madam Secretary, it's almost the end of 2014. So I have a few questions for you. In what time do you intend to take steps forward in the search for a solution for SNCB Logistics? What is the current state of affairs? How, pending a long-term strategic solution, will you remove uncertainty and, above all, avoid harm to our economy? How will you ensure that anyone who wants to work can also work effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u49	Colleagues, since the beginning of 2014, SNCB's CEO and his team, in consultation with the board of directors and the management of SNCB Logistics, have explored various options to ensure a long-term future perspective for SNCB Logistics. This is considered in the broader context of the consolidation at European level of the rail freight industry. It is the intention of the SNCB CEO to propose solutions to the company's management board before the end of the year. The decision will take into account the level of financial control for SNCB Logistics, the quality of service for the Belgian stakeholders of SNCB Logistics such as large customers, ports, distributed transport and the financial impact on SNCB. It goes without saying that the impact on the evolution of the workforce is also an important decision-making element. In the context of the consolidation of SNCB Logistics, a broad social agreement with the trade unions will have to be negotiated and signed. The 24-hour action, announced by the ACOD, concerns SNCB's staff who perform for SNCB Logistics and mainly deals with information sessions for staff. Despite the fact that the strike is scheduled for 24 hours, the negative effects on the traffic have been relatively limited to a few hours. It should also be noted that, on the basis of the information obtained, the action was limited to the area of Antwerp, with a percentage of activists in the zone below 50%. Whoever wanted to work today has been able to work. With regard to minimum services, the government will include a provision in the management contract of SNCB which obliges the company to develop a minimum service with the social partners and, in the absence of results, it will take an initiative itself. It is important to note that SNCB Logistics on social consultation does not fall within the scope of the Law of 21 March 1991 relating to autonomous public undertakings. The agreement on minimum services will therefore only apply to the staff of SNCB providing services to SNCB Logistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u50	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I note that you are doing a great deal of work in finding a solution. We would also like to support you in this. Our group wants to contribute to a solution for SNCB Logistics. Pending a final solution, minimum service provision remains at issue. We were able to debate this yesterday. This is mentioned in the coalition agreement and everyone is thinking in particular of the commuter. We want to give a hand to the social partners in order to reach an agreement on this matter and to develop a system of guaranteed services. We believe, however, that it is also important to apply this also to distributed transport. After all, many of our companies today have no alternative to SNCB Logistics in this area either.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u51	Mr Secretary of State, we are all shocked by the news from the Confederation of Construction that more than 12 000 jobs have been lost in this sector in recent years and that another 6 000 jobs could be lost in the coming year. If we are not careful, it may be 40 000 in the long term, and all of this is because this sector is facing social dumping. Social dumping must not be a problem, Mr Secretary of State, which means that workers are imported from countries with cheaper structures, which drive our workers out of the sector, our construction workers. The problem arises not only in the construction sector but also in the transport sector, where at least 5 000 jobs have been lost. Mr President, I know that I have to be brief in Parliament. I'll do the same. Mr Secretary of State, you promised in your coalition agreement that you would take the necessary measures in this regard. I understand that at this short time you have not yet taken the measures you would like to take. Knowing your raftiness you might want more, but sometimes laws and practical objections stand in the way. Well, at least you're not here yet. The fact that the construction sector announced last week that there is a problem says a lot. What will you do about this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u52	Thank you, Mr Penris, for the question. You say you're shocked. I'm not freaked out. I already had a meeting with the Confederation of Construction last week for two hours. The Confederation has certainly found a listening ear with me and will certainly find it in the coming weeks and months. Europe has a high priority for the free movement of goods and services and the current system of posting is therefore not wrong. This also applies outside Europe. Some believe that these are only European postings, but also from other countries. It is provided for by law. However, abuse must be tackled by employing workers at low wages in humane conditions. Several sectors are affected, including transport, construction, cleaning and meat processing. The European Commission has failed Belgium for the social anti-abuse clause of my predecessor John Crombez. According to the European Commission, this provision would be contrary to the free movement of persons and services. We await the further procedure and see what happens with it. This does not mean, however, that I cannot take any additional initiatives. In addition to the discussion between the Court of Justice of the European Union and Belgium, I am now working on a plan B, an action plan on social dumping. I will be presenting this to the Council of Ministers shortly. That has a national part and a European part. We must put the item on the European agenda anyway, because it is an international problem. I will also discuss this with my colleague in the Commission, Mrs Thyssen. In the coming weeks and months, I will also organise a round table with the employers and trade unions of the various sectors in which the problem arises. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the issue of social dumping is a very important and even a priority for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u53	Mr Secretary of State, I take note of your answer. It is also an important dossier for me and my other group. We are all Europeans, but we are not urophils, at least I am not. From time to time we must realise that we are net contributors to the European system. We must also dare to raise a finger at Europe. That doesn't have to be a middle finger. We can raise our finger and refer to our traditions, values and standards in our social security with the demand to appreciate them, including for our employees. If we make the net account, the Confederation of Construction has calculated, if we are not careful, we could miss EUR 2.1 billion. I don't think that's your ambition. It certainly isn't mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u54	Mr President, Minister, over the last few days we have had a lot of debates in committee on your policy paper. Your policy paper ends with a small sentence, which I would like to read today and which, in our view, could have serious consequences for pensioners in our country. That phrase reads as follows: "The tax expenditure not linked to occupational income from employment shall not be indexed." This sentence refers in particular to pensions, unemployment and sickness and invalidity benefits and will have serious consequences for different categories of the population. Mr Minister, allow me to make a small calculation of what could be the consequences for pensioners in our country. I am departing from a pension of EUR 1 250, which is the average here in Belgium. Since, in addition to the index jump, the index will continue to be applied to wages and benefits themselves but not to reductions, non-application of indexation will result in the different ceilings and discs being exceeded in the coming years. A retired person receiving EUR 1 250 per month will therefore have to pay more taxes in ten years with inflation of EUR 2 % 1 133 per year. Add 8.5 % of municipal taxes, then my calculation is that in ten years' time a retired person here in Belgium will have to pay 1 230 euros more taxes. I repeat: EUR 1 230! Almost one month's pension will have to be paid in taxes. Mr Minister, I come to my questions. Can you explain that decision and respond to it? Can you assess whether the figures announced are correct, in particular that one month's benefit will have to be paid more in 10 years' time?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u55	Mr President, Mr Hedebouw, the government agreement, as you said, limits the automatic indexation of tax expenditure that does not have an impact on activity revenue. It is the government's firm belief that the fall in unemployment is an important problem. One of the objectives of government policy is to eliminate the fall in unemployment in the income tax system. The no longer indexing of the tax relief for replacement income contributes to this. I would also like to point out that, contrary to previous freezes on indexation as in the 1990s, the tax scales are still being indexed this time. Furthermore, Article 154 of the Income Tax Code 1992 provides for an additional tax reduction for those whose income consists exclusively of pension income and/or replacement income. In order not to affect this clearly vulnerable group, the Programme Act explicitly states that the tax reduction for 2014 can be increased. The beneficiaries of replacement income will therefore benefit from an additional tax reduction for the tax year 2015 based on the maximum amount of the statutory unemployment benefits of 2014. Consequently, they will not suffer any harm.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u56	Mr Minister, what you are saying changes the last sentence of your policy paper. It did not involve fiscal expenditure. I welcome that. However, I have not heard that the measure itself will not be applied. You do not guarantee today that the reduction will continue to be indexed. The mechanism described will therefore apply in the coming years. We therefore have a problem. The government often puts itself forward as an anti-tax government, but will actually become a tax government for pensioners and for everyone who gets a benefit. It will only be an anti-tax government for large companies and large assets. As a left-wing party, we do not like that. We cannot accept that. We really hope that you will maintain the total indexation in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u57	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few days we have heard some concern about this European budget, about disputes between the Member States and the Council of Europe and the Parliament about the implementation of the European budget, about invoices that have not yet been paid and should still be paid by Member States for 2014. The negotiations on the 2015 budget are not easy. This brings us to the essence of discussions that have been going on about Europe for a long time: do we want a Europe with a large and strong content, a strong Europe that makes a lot of investments, or are we for less Europe, a smaller Europe with a lower impact on the Member States? This week France advocated serious investment from Europe to promote growth. They demanded EUR 80 billion in investment from Europe in the Member States, which is an example of a strong Europe and a strong attachment to Europe's budget. Finally, I would like to point out that last year, 5% of Europe's expenditure or EUR 6 billion of the European budget was not properly spent. It is not always about tax fraud in problem countries or issues, sometimes it is also a misinterpreting of expenditure from Europe. There is also a lot of discussion about the proper implementation of Europe's expenditure under grants and structural funds, which can sometimes lead to discussions about the budget, including in Europe. Firstly, what is the impact on the Belgian contribution to Europe from the various budget proposals that are now going around? It may be necessary to work with provisional twelfths if Europe does not get out before the end of the year. What is the impact on the Belgian contribution? Secondly, what is the return to Belgium from Europe? What does Belgium get from Europe through Structural Funds and through European grants from Europe to Belgium? What is the position of Belgium with regard to strict control of the use and control of these subsidies and structural funds? Finally, what views does Belgium take on European fora on the implementation of Europe and on the maximum or minimum implementation of the European budget? Do you choose a strong Europe? This has been the case in the past. The coalition agreement doesn't say much about that. Do you opt for a strong Europe or rather for less Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u58	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, in general terms, it is of course regrettable that no compromise could be reached in recent days, not even by the European Commission. We will, of course, do everything we can to ensure that we do not end up in a system of provisional credits and that Europe can be what it needs to be, namely strong. In view of your first specific question, the size of the budgetary impact of the proposals is actually relatively easy to achieve, each time the percentage of the country in question, in this case Belgium, in the so-called GNI, gross national income, of the whole of the EU, is applied to that GNI. This means, for example, that a contribution from the federal budget of EUR 3 284 million is requested for 2015. Each increase in payment appropriations translates into an increase in that contribution of the net 2.9%, i.e. Belgium's share of GNI in the whole of the European Union. So if an additional EUR 6 billion is provided for, that means 2,9% of EUR 6 billion for the Belgian federal government, which is EUR 180 million. Then I come to your second, very interesting question about the return of these Structural Funds and subsidies. Unfortunately, I cannot give a concrete answer to that at this time. As far as I know, there are no figures available. Moreover, most of the figures to be taken into account in such a consideration are in the regional entities. However, I would like to assure you that I will make an attempt to map these figures a little, so that we can indeed get a picture of that return. Then I come to the third point: Belgium agreed with the Italian Presidency's compromise proposal. This resulted in a figure set in June by the Council of EUR 140 billion. In negotiations with the European Parliament in recent weeks, Belgium, like most Member States, has agreed to an increase of EUR 800 million, but unfortunately the European Parliament did not agree to this and no agreement was reached. Mr President, if I may, I would like to give a brief answer to Mrs Smaer's fourth question. We are following closely the results of the European Court of Auditors' report. Indeed, there are always many comments and cases. These are rarely cases of fraud, but always essentially a misapplication of rules or issues of respect for deadlines. Moreover, Belgium is always distinguished by a very low error rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for that somewhat too long answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I note that you will try to ascertain what the Belgian return from Europe is. We know that a lot of these funds and subsidies belong to the powers of the regions, but ultimately they also benefit Belgium as such. We must therefore have an overview of this in order to assess our contribution to Europe. Finally, I would like to call for a greater commitment from our country to Europe's fiscal autonomy. CD&V has always been in favour of this. We want the right responsibilities at the right level and our own responsibility for income and expenditure not only for the regions, but also for Europe. I therefore ask you to include tax autonomy for Europe in the discussions. It may be a solution to the annual recurring discussions on contributions and returns from the Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, we congratulate Mrs Smaers on her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u62	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, the absence of the Prime Minister is already an answer to the question I intended to ask him. He is not here because he probably has other obligations but, nevertheless, the subject would have deserved to have been there! In short, a Luxembourg liberal prime minister refers to his studies the liberal prime minister of Belgium. I said Liberals, but in the end, they are Conservatives. I read an excellent forum in La Libre Belgique saying that liberalism was something other than the conservatism that characterizes the governments in the three Benelux countries. What does Mr. Bettel say in response to what Mr. Michel said here? "Luxembourg is not a tax haven. No, in a tax haven, you don't pay taxes and you don't want transparency. Here we pay taxes and there's transparency. To compare Luxembourg to a tax haven is to spread a false idea of reality." That is a categorical answer. When asked whether he wanted European harmonisation of taxation, he said clearly: "I am not in favour of harmonisation of taxation." This is a clear, clear, definitive answer. This is a response between so-called Liberal, Conservative prime ministers. I have seen touching scenes of the three so-called Benelux Liberal prime ministers. They said that they were going to create a European dynamic, that they were going to carry a message of greater European integration. Mr Bettel refers all this to oblivion, it's a vacuum. And the bidule of Benelux obviously has no capacity to build any European dynamic. I only have one question. I am not asking you if you condemn Mr Bettel's words. For you, this may not be a very difficult exercise. Since we have been widely praised for the merits of Benelux, will the Belgian Prime Minister convene a summit with his two colleagues to remind Mr Bettel of the rules of European solidarity?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u63	Mr President, Mr Maingain, the government deeply regrets the laconic reaction of the Luxembourg Prime Minister. On the other hand, I note that the latter does not share the view of his Minister of Finance, who said that what is legal today may no longer be desirable. These comments are therefore different from those made by the Luxembourg Prime Minister. However, Belgium alone cannot provide a structural solution to the problem of international tax evasion. It is therefore rather at the level of the European Union and/or the OECD that this problem needs to be solved. As far as LuxLeaks is concerned, I would like to point out that the services of the finance administration are working very hard on this issue. In addition, we have explicitly asked Luxembourg to provide us with detailed information on the rules involving Belgian or Belgian companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u64	Mr. Chair, Minister, your regrets are touching, but they are ineffective. I must note that the Belgian Prime Minister is disavowed by his Luxembourg counterpart. The latter has been cleaning up in his government and has decided. I recognize that, unlike our Prime Minister, the Luxembourg Prime Minister sets the tone. Indeed, it is clear that the latter decides! I now expect to have a Belgian Prime Minister who can at least convince his colleague of the same political sensitivity in Luxembourg!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u65	In accordance with the opinion of today's Conference of Presidents, I propose that you register on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session:- the legislative proposal (Mrs Sonja Becq, Mr Raf Terwingen, Mrs Sophie De Wit, Mr Gilles Foret, Mr Egbert Lachaert and Mrs Carina Van Cauter) amending the law of 8 May 2014 amending Articles 217, 223, 224 and 231 of the Code of Justice as regards its entry into force, Nos 564/1 to 3. - the legislative proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen, Mrs Sonja Becq and Mrs Sophie De Wit, Mr Gilles Foret and Mr Egbert Lachaert and Mrs Carina Van Cauter) amending the date of entry into force of the Act of 11 July 2013 amending the Civil Code as regards collateral on movable property and repealing various provisions in this area, Nos 565/1 to 4. In accordance with the opinion of today's Conference of Presidents, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the bill (Mrs. Sonja Becq, Raf Terwingen, Sophie De Wit, MM. Gilles Foret and Egbert Lachaert and Mrs Carina Van Cauter) amending, with regard to the entry into force, the Act of 8 May 2014 amending Articles 217, 223, 224 and 231 of the Judicial Code, Nos. 564/1 to 3. - the bill (Mr Raf Terwingen, Mrs Sonja Becq and Sophie De Wit, MM. Gilles Foret and Egbert Lachaert and Ms. Carina Van Cauter) amending the date of entry into force of the Act of 11 July 2013 amending the Civil Code with regard to security rights and repealing various provisions in this field, Nos. 565/1 to 4. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observations? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u66	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sonja Becq, Raf Terwingen, Sophie De Wit, Gilles Foret, Egbert Lachaert, Carina Van Cauter Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u67	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u68	Mr President, I would just like to point out that it is important that this proposal be adopted because it postpones the legislation on probation as an autonomous penalty. There must be implementation through the justice houses, which have just been transferred, and where we want to give them time and space to do so in an efficient way.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u69	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u70	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (564/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (564/3) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in 的proposal for a law amending the Act of 8 May 2014 amending articles 217, 223, 224 and 231 of the Judicial Code with regard to the entry into force". The title in French has been amended by the commission in the proposed law amending the Act of 8 May 2014 amending articles 217, 223, 224 and 231 of the Judicial Code with regard to the entry into force". The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u71	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u72	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Raf Terwingen, Sonja Becq, Sophie De Wit, Gilles Foret, Egbert Lachaert, Carina Van Cauter
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u73	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Smeyers refers to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u74	Mr President, this is also about adjusting the deadline for entry into force. The collateral legislation required a property register to enter into force and that is not yet available. That is why we ask for this to be postponed until 1 January 2017, but with the possibility to put this into effect earlier, when it is ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u75	Mr President, I abstained on this subject in committee on the grounds that the way in which I work is of little interest to me. Indeed, all practitioners have been waiting for this provision to enter into force for some time. It had to be adopted almost in the Hussard during the previous legislature, in the course of March 2013, arguing that there was an urgent need to work. Today, it must be noted that it has not been possible to use the time limit to produce this national book or register of wages. It's not a method of work. Through this abstention, it is my mouth shut, Mr President, to say that in the future we must try to work in a more credible way. If indeed, we are ready, let us be ready for all the provisions. It is proof that we are working very badly to systematically postpone the entry into force of legislation which is presented, at the time of discussion, as urgent and indispensable on the ground, namely to postpone the deadline for the implementation of a central register by two years! I shall therefore abstain again in plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u76	Mr President, I agree with my colleague. Both ministers were present, Mr Geens and the Minister of Finance. Since you were not present in committee either, Minister, we will tell you what was discussed in committee. You carry forward the National Register of Pledges until 2017. It had been voted under the previous legislature and was to be implemented by the Minister of Finance. You were Minister of Finance under the previous legislature and you dragged on to that register. It is requested to postpone its implementation to January 1, 2017. In committee, we asked on 1 January 2016 to put pressure on the administrations of both Finance and Justice. Therefore, we will abstain to increase the pressure. This is important for traders and self-employed people who have been waiting for this measure for a long time. The implementation of this law, which was passed last year, should therefore be speeded up.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u77	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u78	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (565/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (565/4) The law contains 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u79	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u80	I propose, in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 November 2014 and at the request of the follow-up committee "sexual abuse," to extend the mandate of the two experts appointed during the previous parliamentary term, Mr Paul Martens and Mr Herman Verbist, as members of the Scientific Committee of the Centre for the Arbitration on Sexual Abuse appointed by the Chamber. I propose, on the assent of the Conference of Presidents on 19 November 2014, and at the request of the Sexual Abuse Monitoring Committee, to extend the mandate of the two experts appointed under the previous legislative term, MM. Paul Martens and Herman Verbist, to be part of the Scientific Committee of the Centre of Arbitration on Sexual Abuse. Are you sure you don't mind? No observations? Thus shall be done. That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u81	Since the calls for candidates appeared in the Belgian Official Journal of 21 May 2014 and 24 July 2014 for the mandates of member of the federal police forces, no female candidacy was issued, in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 7 October 2014, a new call for candidates for that category was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 17 October 2014. As the appeals to the candidates for the Belgian Monitor of 21 May and 24 July 2014 for the terms of office of a member of the police services did not give rise to any female candidature, a new call for candidates for this category was published in the Belgian Monitor of 17 October 2014, in accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 7 October 2014. The applications were to be submitted by 16 November 2014. Applications were to be submitted no later than 16 November 2014. Three applications were submitted within the prescribed deadline. Three applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. As a result of the three calls for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal, sufficient applications were submitted. Following the three calls for candidates to the Belgian Monitor, a sufficient number of applications were submitted. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 November 2014, candidates' CVs will be sent to political groups and their names will be communicated at a later meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 November 2014, the curricula vitae of the candidates will be transmitted to the political groups and their names will be communicated at a later meeting. Are you sure you don't mind? Pas d'observation? Thus shall be done. That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u82	Since the call for candidates for the appointment of four experts (2 N + 2 F) for the Audit Board on electoral expenditure and the accounting of the political parties, published in the Belgian Official Journal of 18 August 2014, resulted in only one candidacy, a new call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 17 October 2014, in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 7 October 2014. The call to candidates for the appointment of four experts (2 F + 2 N) of the Commission de contrôle des éspenses électorals et de la comptes des parties politiques, published in the Moniteur belge of 18 August 2014, having given rise to only one candidature, a new call to candidates was published in the Moniteur belge of 17 October 2014, in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 7 October 2014. The applications were to be submitted by 16 November 2014. Applications were to be submitted no later than 16 November 2014. Two applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. Two applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. Enough applications were submitted for the mandates of the Dutch-speaking expert of the Audit Board. For the Dutch-speaking expert mandates of the Monitoring Commission, sufficient nominations have been made. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 November 2014, a third call for candidates for the mandates of the French-speaking expert of the Audit Board will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Candidates shall be submitted by 8 December 2014. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 November 2014, a third call for candidates for the terms of office of Francophone expert of the Commission de contrôle will be published at the Moniteur belge. Applications must be submitted by 8 December 2014. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u83	Since the call for candidates for the mandate of member of the Federal Deontological Commission, published in the Belgian Official Journal of 23 July 2014, resulted in only two applications, a new call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 17 October 2014, in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 7 October 2014. The call for candidates for the term of office of a member of the Federal Ethics Commission, published in the Belgian Moniteur of 23 July 2014, having given rise to only two applications, a new call for candidates was published in the Moniteur belge of 17 October 2014, in accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 7 October 2014. The committee consists of six Dutch-speaking and six French-speaking members, each of whom has a magistrate (or professor), three former members of the Chamber and/or Senate and two former mandaters. A maximum of two thirds of the members may be of the same sex. The Commission consists of six French-speaking members and six Dutch-speaking members, including for each linguistic role, one magistrate (or professor), three former members of the House and/or the Senate and two former representatives. At least two thirds of the members are of the same sex. The applications were to be submitted by 16 November 2014. Applications were to be submitted no later than 16 November 2014. Three applications were submitted within the prescribed deadline. Three applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 November 2014, a third call for candidates for the categories "former members of the Chamber or Senate" and "former agents" will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Applications shall be submitted no later than 30 days after publication of the call. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 November 2014, a third call for candidates for the categories "former members Chamber and/or Senate" and "former representatives" will be published in the Belgian Moniteur. Applications must be submitted no later than 30 days after the publication of the appeal. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u84	I propose that the draft law of Mr Filip Dewinter, Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris subjecting magistrates to the obligation to submit a list of mandates, posts and appeals as well as an asset declaration, No. 537/1, to be referred to the Committee for the Revision of the Constitution and the Reform of the Institutions. I propose that you refer to the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution and of the Reform of Institutions, the bill of Mr. Filip Dewinter, Mrs. Barbara Pas and Mr. Jan Penris subjecting the magistrates to the obligation to table a list of mandates, functions and professions and a declaration of assets, No. 537/1. This bill was previously sent to the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration. This proposal had previously been referred to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u85	At the request of the author, I propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Veerle Wouters, Mr Hendrik Vuye and Mrs Daphné Dumery) amending the law of 11 January 1993 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing, No. 99/1, to be referred to the Finance and Budget Commission. At the author's request, I propose that you refer to the Committee on Finance and the Budget the bill (Mrs Veerle Wouters, Mr Hendrik Vuye and Mrs Daphné Dumery) amending the Act of 11 January 1993 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, No 99/1. This bill was previously sent to the Justice Commission. This proposal had previously been referred to the Committee on Justice. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observations? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u86	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In line with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 and 20 November 2014, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Mr Laurette Onkelinx and Mr Jean-Marc Delizée, Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Philippe Blanchart) on the formal recognition of the State of Palestine by Belgium, No. 626/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Benoit Hellings, Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mr Kristof Calvo, Mrs Zakia Khattabi, Mrs Evita Willaert and Mr Anne Dedry, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mr Georges Gilkinet) on the unconditional recognition of the Palestinian State, No. 652/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u87	- the bill (Mrs Sophie De Wit, Sarah Smeyers, Goedele Uyttersprot and Kristien Van Vaerenbergh) establishing a second-line assistance fund, No. 653/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u88	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 and 20 November 2014, I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution (Ms Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Laurette Onkelinx and MM. Jean-Marc Delizée, Stéphane Crusnière and Philippe Blanchart) on the formal recognition by Belgium of the State of Palestine, No 626/1. - the motion for a resolution (MM. Benoit Hellings, Wouter De Vriendt, Jean-Marc Nollet and Kristof Calvo, Ms Zakia Khattabi, Ms Evita Willaert and Anne Dedry, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Ms Muriel Gerkens and Mr Georges Gilkinet) concerning the unconditional recognition of the Palestinian State, No 652/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u89	- the bill (Ms. Sophie De Wit, Sarah Smeyers, Goedele Uyttersprot and Kristien Van Vaerenbergh) establishing a second line aid fund, No 653/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u90	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u91	Mr President, in view of the discussion that our colleague, Mr. De Vriendt, together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and also taking into account the decisions taken by the Spanish and British parliaments and the Swedish Government, my group calls for urgent consideration of resolution 652 on the unconditional recognition of the State of Palestine.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u92	Mr President, I support our colleague's request. At the same time, I would like to ask for the urgency of the motion for a resolution No 626 which we tabled on the formal recognition by Belgium of the State of Palestine. The escalation of violence in the Middle East obviously leaves no one indifferent. In view of the situation in other European Parliaments where this issue has been taken up in arms, in trying to find a solution which requires the recognition of two States, we also call for the urgent consideration of proposal No 36.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u93	Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would like to say that we want this discussion to take place quickly. We are ready to associate ourselves with the urgency of the texts that have been tabled. We have prepared a text ourselves that is being translated. We also believe that the peace and recognition process is effectively blocked. This situation has led to violence, which is now at its peak. We strongly condemn the recent attack on a synagogue in Jerusalem. We heard earlier from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that he wanted to step up efforts at European Union level. This is a step that needs to be taken. But if this approach does not succeed, we will have to move in the short term towards recognition of the State of Palestine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u94	Mr President, the PTB has not introduced any additional text. Several texts have already been introduced for the recognition of the Palestinian State. We will position ourselves in relation to these. We fully support the need to recognize the Palestinian State. Together with several colleagues in the Chamber, we recently visited Palestine to see the situation on the ground. It is a demand that has been repeated by all our Palestinian interlocutors and also by members of the Israeli population who are aware of the problematic situation for the Palestinian population. The first thing they all told us was, "We have to recognize the Palestinian state." We support the importance of early discussion of this issue in the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u95	Mr President, unfortunately, the European Union has had too little weight in the debate on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in recent years. While the European Union has paid particular attention to the Palestinian people, particularly in the form of humanitarian aid, the fact remains that the European Union does not have a leadership role in the peace process. That's the least we can say. It is gratifying that today, in the national parliaments of several Member States of the European Union, there is a willingness to put this issue on the agenda of the States so that they themselves are led to take an attitude within the European Council. That is why I believe that this debate should be held here in Parliament, as soon as possible, so that the voice of Europe can finally be built to reflect all those who, and in Palestine and Israel, still believe in the peace process in the face of the rise of religious radicalism on both sides. There are still enough enlightened minds on both sides to try to save the peace process. If it is not Europe that supports these voices, no one else will.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u96	We shall vote on the request for urgency when we sit and stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u97	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (564/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (564/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u98	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 81 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 59 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (565/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (565/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-20-54-plenair-ip016x.u99	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 27 November 2014. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 27 November 2014. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 27 November 2014 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 27 November 2014, at 2.15 p.m.
