ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u1	I welcome Mr Frank Vandenberghe, Mrs Ilse Tant and Mr Julien Damilot. As usual, Elia will give us a presentation and then questions can be asked by the Commissioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u2	Madam President, aren't we waiting for the Secretary of State? I understand she'd be here.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u3	We agreed that this would be the Secretary of State or someone from his cabinet. We are not in a confrontation between a minister and Elia and it is therefore a member of his cabinet who is in the room.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u4	It is certainly not the intention to organise a confrontation, but I think the signal from our committee was clear last Tuesday. Our group has made a clear statement and I have not heard any other statement that the committee would appreciate the fact that the Secretary of State would be here today. The Secretary of State then nodded in agreement, or at least didn't say she wouldn't be here, nor motivated why she shouldn't be here. I particularly regret her absence and ask that we still ask the Secretary of State to be here. Why? Not to organise the confrontation, but to finally see clarity, unity of communication and coordination achieved at the end of our sitting, which has been lacking in recent days and weeks and which we have had a great deal of trouble. If the Secretary of State is not here, then we can only conclude that, after three weeks of chaos over chaos, Mrs Fonck has still not understood that there is a problem and apparently does not realize that no one has obliged her to take over in current cases and to take on her responsibilities to Parliament. We heard her Tuesday. She was talking about Elijah wanting one thing and another when she wanted it to be different. That must stop, and that is why the Secretary of State must be here. It is not Elia's power to shape energy policy. That is the responsibility of the Secretary of State, so she must also be here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u5	Mr Calvo, we can only regret this together with you, but the Secretary of State has said that either she or one of her cabinet would be present. We can always call on the Secretary of State when that seems useful or necessary. I suggest we start with our guests.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u6	It's not about details. We were very clear on that last Tuesday. We have seen a hearing on Tuesday where the Secretary of State and her group have quite clearly launched the attack on Elia. She was supposed to be here today and she's not here. Our group is asking the committee to call on the Secretary of State today. It's not a matter for a cabinet employee who just has to take notes. Elijah and the Secretary of State must be here together and make sure that this chaos is resolved. We are asking for the vote on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u7	Mr President, I repeat what you said. It is true that we have requested the presence of the Secretary of State, but it is also true that the Secretary of State said on Tuesday that she would do her best and that, if it did not succeed, someone would come from her cabinet. At the time, they should have insisted more strongly on her presence.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u8	I think the incident is closed with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u9	Our call last Tuesday was very clear. The Secretary of State did not formally say that she would not be present at the end of the day. She initially said it would be difficult and she didn't contradict it afterwards. I find it strange, moreover, that Members of Parliament think it is normal that the Secretary of State is not here. We are asking for the vote on this. We think the Secretary of State should be here.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u10	I note that the agreement has been fulfilled and that the Secretary of State can be called...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u11	No...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u12	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u13	Apparently, you're already in the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u14	The Secretary of State has said that she would do her best or that someone else would come.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u15	Doing her best isn't enough. We see ways of chaos, communication between Elijah and the Secretary of State is going through the newspapers. Then doing his best isn't enough, then one has to be here. No one has obliged Mrs. Fonck to... in current cases...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u16	Mr Calvo, if you raise your voice, I will raise my voice! If you don't want to hear Elia, you can go out! Three people from Elias are going to give us a presentation. If you have any questions to the Secretary of State, we will call her back and she will come next week!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u17	We make a commission with Elia, then another with the Secretary of State, then...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u18	The incident is closed! The floor is for the representatives of Elias!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u19	Madame la présidente, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again present on your proposal to the joint committee to explain to you a number of points relating to security of supply and specifically to the switch-off plan. I'd like to make a reservation. We have given you a note. We have also prepared a short presentation for you. However, the time between your invitation and the sitting today was very short, just over 24 hours; you should therefore excuse us if there are any doubts or write-offs in the presentation or the note. In view of the topicality and debates that have taken place in the committees, we will discuss the role of the network operator in case of shortages. We believe it is important to continue to emphasize the roles and responsibilities of security of supply, shortages and the implementation of relief plans. Then we will discuss with you the legal framework that is the basis of the release plan, and therefore the procedure for the execution of this release plan, a plan that has been in question in recent weeks. We will present a history of the discussions with the Energy Ministers on the release plan, so on the first version of the release plan, the procedural note – who did what in all these different interactions. Also a selection of the unset items in case of scarcity. How did this selection come about? How did Elijah get to the list of unset posts? We will discuss the criteria that have been used to select these positions. Finally, we shall come to the proposal made by Elia concerning the improvement, not of the discharge plan, but of the procedure for removing the various tranches in the different geographical areas. The next slide is about Elijah's role and responsibility, specifically in case of scarcity. Elia is the network operator and provides a network used by suppliers to supply their customers, either through internal means of production or through production purchased abroad and then transported through interconnections. The interconnections are infrastructure works, high-voltage lines included in Elia's development plan and also approved by the Minister for Energy. Only if these producers fail to find sufficient means of production at home or abroad to supply their customers will we possibly find ourselves in a situation of scarcity. At that time, Elia determines, on the basis of information from the supplier or from information obtained by Elijah in conversations with other network operators, that there is a problem. Elia must then report that problem to the Minister: the localization and extent of the problem and the volume of capacity that is needed in the next 24 hours. If Elijah has made that notification, it is up to the Minister of Energy and the Minister of Economy to decide what measures they will take. The measures on the table today, which are also mentioned in the legal framework and the switch-off plan, are primarily awareness campaigns to raise awareness among residents in order to reduce their electricity consumption, then a mandatory reduction in electricity consumption, and ultimately, if the measures provide an insufficient response to the situation, the application of the switch-off plan. We have also taken the trouble to outline the legal framework on the slides. Where's the shutdown plan coming from? The technical regulation, which was drawn up and adopted in 2002, provides for a discharge plan made on the proposal of the network operator. Elia must therefore make a proposal which is then adopted by the Minister after consulting the CREG and after consultation with the Regions and the Minister of Economy. There is a whole procedure and there is clearly an obligation of initiative in the head of Elias. What does the legal framework say? These are general rules, which lay down the provisions to be included in the exit plan. First of all, there is what can happen and in what order the switches should take place. A second point states which awareness campaigns can be organised and what measures can be imposed to reduce electricity consumption. It is, in the end, Elia that the Minister will take note of a problem of scarcity. It is therefore the Minister who decides which measure will be imposed on the basis of the exit plan. It is important to consider the fact that the exit plan provides an answer to two situations. There is, firstly, the situation with sudden phenomena, in particular sudden frequency fluctuations, voltage decreases and multiple incident situations on the network, where automatic shutdowns occur. Secondly, there is the situation that we have been discussing here a great deal over the last few weeks, namely the situation of the shortage of electricity. At a certain point, it is established that there is not likely to be sufficient means of production to meet the demand for the coming period. Those two situations are the subject of the shutdown plan. There are a number of general provisions, such as how the system operator will determine which volumes should be switched off. There are several criteria laid down for this purpose in both the technical regulation and the switch-off plan, taking into account the location of the problem, i.e. the location of the problem, the impact of the measures that can be taken, and the overall task of the network operator to ensure the safety and security of the network. Elia, the network operator, has a certain margin of interpretation in this respect. In order to ensure a balanced distribution of the volume of the switchable power across the country, the country has been divided into five geographical zones, which is also included in the switching plan. Underneath there is another distribution in six different disks, which can be switched off each consecutively, until the net is rebalanced. An important provision, also included in the switch-off plan, is that the system operator must ensure that the switch-off power is about 5% of the consumption of that zone. In de tekst state: "By instalment, almost 5% of the burden of the geographical area concerned is removed and reduced." This 5% is a guideline, because the consumption decrease is not a constant but evolves. When switching off, care must be taken to ensure that the power switched off approaches about 5 % of the consumption in that zone. There are two different procedures, as I said earlier. The first one deals with the sudden events. In the event of a sudden phenomenon, there are clearly criteria for the order of discharge. In the Ministerial Order, there is first of all the relief of interruptible contractual power – interruptible customers. Secondly, there is the removal of exports from the area of adjustment. Thirdly, the release of injections into rural distribution networks. Fourthly, the supply of direct industries connected to the Elias network. Fifthly, injections into urban distribution networks. There are not only criteria for the order of discharge, but also for priority customers, those who have the right to be recharged in case of discharge. The list follows a growing order of importance. It is therefore necessary to start with the end of the list in order to know the priority customers, i.e. the supply of auxiliary services for production plants and high voltage stations, the feeding of hospitals and the feeding of industries. These criteria are not reflected in the procedure for the shortage situation. This is a separate procedure, and there is no criterion regarding the order of discharge or priority customers. However, there are some criteria that must be taken into account when applying the relief plan. First, the GRD, thus Elia, informs the minister of the problem of shortage. It is up to the Minister to take measures to raise awareness and reduce energy consumption. If it appears that these measures are not sufficient to restore the balance between injection and consumption, and there is always a concern, the Minister may direct the transmission system operator to discontinue liaison with customers or certain categories of customers. There are no more criteria, but the minister can – he is not obliged – if the measures that have been taken regarding awareness and consumption reduction are not sufficient, instruct Elia to interrupt the liaison of certain customers or categories of customers. There is no criterion in this procedure, it is up to the minister to decide who will be relieved first. These are the most important articles of the legal framework, which are found in the technical regulations and the release plan. How was it established? The shutdown plan has been in place for a long time. I already talked about the technical regulations, which were adopted in 2002. In it is the obligation for Elia to make a proposal for a switch-off pan. Already in 2003, immediately after the entry into force of the technical regulation, Elia proposed a switch-off plan to the Minister for Energy. In addition, Elijah communicated an implementation procedure to the Minister, on the one hand for the sudden phenomena, such as frequency fluctuations and voltage reductions, and on the other hand for situations of scarcity. The items included as unset items in those two cases were identical. So it wasn't about different posts. Geographically, the impact in those two cases was the same. The proposal made by Elijah on 9 April 2003 was sent to the then competent ministers, Minister Durant and Minister Deleuze. Following that proposal, the successor minister, Minister Verwilghen, adopted the exit plan on 3 June 2005, following the advice of the CREG and after consultation with the Regions, which were also involved in the discussion, and after consultation with the Minister for Economic Affairs. Since then, that ministerial decision, with the exit plan attached, has never been amended as a legal text. After that, there have been some exchanges. We have listed the most important ones in our note. In 2012, you know, the question came up again in response to the problems with Tihange and Goal. When asked about the state of play of the switch-off plan and whether it was easy to put it into practice. At the request of then State Secretary Wathelet, Elia sent him an amended implementation procedure of the Exit Plan on 3 July 2012. At the request of the Secretary of State, we also made a number of adjustments to the implementation procedure in the two cases, on the one hand in the event of scarcity and on the other hand in the case of sudden phenomena. The same principles were still applied, i.e. the same items, the same criteria and the same priority customers. After adjusting the procedure as requested by the Secretary of State, Elia drew up the final procedure, which together with the final list of posts that can be switched off, delivered to the State Secretary by Exchange of Letters on 28 and 30 November. Following that, on 20 June 2014, Elia sent a new updated list of unset items. That new list was needed because those posts are not static. Elia carries out works, technical changes, for example, to make some posts better equipped or subject to technical adjustments, which also amends that list. It was therefore a purely technical adjustment of the list, which was transferred. This list is the starting point for the federal administration Energy, crisis cell and distribution system operators, Synergrid. This list provides the opportunity to map the low-voltage cabins connected with it, as well as the municipalities, so that a cartography can be made. This is ultimately the famous cartography that was sent to Mrs Fonck by the Economy Administration on 2 September. Elia didn't send anything on that date, because the list of high voltage stations had already been sent by Elijah and that list was the basis for the cartography. That cartography was transmitted to Mrs Fonck by the crisis cell or the Energy Administration on 2 September, as we think. There were several presentations about the exit plan, including to the governors. A professor in the Walloon Region, in order not to mention the name, then referred to Elia's plan as irregular, illegal and unbalanced. That is why on 8 September we received a letter from Mrs Fonck asking for a report on the legality of our proceedings. This concerns specifically the implementation procedure and not the ministerial decision. We replied by letter dated 12 September 2014 to confirm that the procedure we have discussed and confirmed since 2003 is neither illegal nor irregular. However, we have noted ourselves that there may be an imbalance in the application of the switch-off plan in relation to the 5% of consumption. If, for some zones, the power switchable as shown in the switch-off plan is compared to the consumption of the different zones, there was nevertheless a large difference in the percentages between the different zones, knowing that the consumption criterion naturally evolves. One will never have exactly five percent. Otherwise, we will have to review the exit plan every month.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u20	Madam President, I will go into more detail about the practical consequences, the analyses and the proposal we have put forward following the finding of the alleged imbalance in the plan. You will see on this slide the map of the country, which we also showed at the previous hearing. As you can see, the country is divided into five electric zones, which do not correspond to the provincial and regional boundaries. There is, however, a partial agreement, which does not correspond administratively to those limits. Within these zones, there are switch-off systems, we refer to that frequency relays, which are intended to ensure that certain sections of the zones mapped out in the maps you have seen can be switched off automatically according to the criteria for the phénomènes soudains explained by Mrs Tant. In each of the zones, as was said last time, we have identified six disks which can be switched off sequentially and which, in the case of manual activation, can also be switched off alternatingly. You can make the calculation. It concerns six disks for each of the five zones of a size of 100 megawatts. However, you cannot regard that 100 megawatts as an exact figure. Sometimes one has a post of 80 megawatts with a smaller one of 10, which together amounts to 90 megawatts, while in another place one has a post of 120 megawatts and one takes them for example. They're approximate numbers. We are, of course, looking at the global balance in these totals. That 3 000 megawatts has been calculated. It's calculated in an average state of the network. For example, for days like this one, we reach about 10,000 MW in terms of peak consumption. This covers 800 Elia posts, 400 of which are points of contact with the distribution. Among these positions, we selected 200 positions that could be removed as part of the plan. The criteria for sudden phenomena take account of the historical evolution of the network. These installations are partly the result of the development of the network on a historical basis. For example, the places around which power stations used to be located are generally more equipped with frequency relays. We do not, of course, drag that along for decades. This is regularly updated, but still, the assets have a lifespan of 40 to 50 years. We also take this element into account when drawing up the plans. So we have made a selection of stations for sudden phenomena. That has had to work once in the last ten years. This was an incident in Germany, which we also discussed last time. Then there was a great imbalance and the disks 1 and 2 were automatically addressed, to restore the balance in the system very quickly. The switches then lasted about one or two hours. So, first of all, an installation was created to manage sudden incidents. Sudden phenomena, falling tension and falling frequency, what electrician does in his normal job. In addition, there is the case of scarcity, which is very exceptional and has never occurred in reality on the Belgian net. Now, however, we are not identifying a In the event of scarcity, there are, as has been said, possibilities, on a proposal from the network operator and after the decision of the two ministers concerned, the Minister for Energy and the Minister for Economic Affairs, to switch off. The ministerial decree does not stipulate that we must meet the same criteria as in the case of sudden phenomena. The principle that Elia maintained from the outset in the design of the procedure and the plan in the event of scarcity implies some analogy with those principles, because they are also based on a number of considerations. It was not for Elijah to question them in this matter. The fact that we have used criteria in the chapter of the "Phenomenes Soudains' to define the cut-off discs in the event of scarcity is not contrary to any provision. That also has several advantages. After all, it means that we have one specific list of stations. Behind them, distribution system operators can identify their booths, can prepare their own procedures, and can identify priority customers. This allows the re-engagement of priority clients, and it also allows clarity for the authorities. So the inventory of the posts, the inventory of the cabins that are behind, it's the same for the sudden phenomena and for the case of shortage. This was the case from the beginning. It is obviously necessary to have the greatest clarity between the authorities, the network and distribution operators and Elia, as well as vis-à-vis the citizens and the affected companies. The posts are known, identified. They are now and the next days and weeks made known with all the details. It seems valuable to us to do so on the basis of one particular list. As I said, the energy and economic ministers are closing down. We have already discussed the zones and the six times 100 megawatts per zone. That is how we have put together the scheme. This brings me to the proposal that we made on 12 September to reduce the margin in relation to the standard of "Pratiquement 5 %', which is almost 5%, for the total of all Belgian zones. Let me now show you the scheme that you were shown the last time, as it was conceived as a basis. The scheme that Elijah constructed in this way was never contested. Moreover, it has already functioned once in the context of the sudden disruption on the network in 2006. Now I come to the context of the application of that scheme in the event of scarcity. If there is a need to switch off in the event of scarcity, we assume that this will happen at a time of peak consumption. So it is not a problem with a consumption of 10 000 megawatts, because if something happens, it is an incident and not a shortage. If there is scarcity, there is a peak consumption. We estimate that at about 13 000 megawatts. On the following schedule, you will see this greatly simplified. Suppose a day when it is cold and there is little sun and wind. Consumption is high at such a time. On average, if consumption increases from 10 000 to 13 000 megawatts in national consumption, then the consumption of these discs increases indicatively to an order size of 130 megawatts. According to the Ministerial Decision, the 130 megawatts for each of these discs must be almost equal to 5% of the consumption of the zones. We have compared these effective cuts with the consumption of the zones, where we have observed those percentages. We found that, in the three zones northwest, northeast and center, we were below the level of almost 5% of the population, rather between 3.5 % and 4 %. On the other hand, we have also calculated these percentages for the two zones in the south, southwest and southeast. We found that the percentage was in the range of 8-8.5%. So we can discuss it. If we carry out a plan whose order says "practically 5%" and which is between 4% and 8%, we could consider it not illegal. It's a range around 5%. Having seen this rather telling element, we have sought a solution within the existing plan. The existing plan is a list of stations and cabins that has been sent to the Minister on several occasions after updating. We have sought a solution to restore balance in accordance with the plan and by modifying the modalities for activation of the plan. The activation procedures are defined in an execution procedure and are not detailed in the plan because it is up to the Minister to decide according to the conditions. So what did we propose? We have proposed to split all the disks in the zones Sud-Ouest and Sud-Est into two, one disk A and one disk B. You will see the two right columns. The two right-hand columns are no longer on average 130 megawatts but 65 megawatts. There is therefore a 6A slice and a 6B slice in the southwest zone for about 65 megawatts. I repeat, these are averages, which are generally respected. We note that at the peak of winter, we still maintain 3,000 megawatts by alternating the activations between slices A and B. At each trigger, we also find that we are much closer to the 5% figure compared to the country's averages. By doing so, an average of between 3.5 and 5 percent of the consumption of the zones is switched off at each switch-off. Thus, a possible finding of imbalance, a margin around 5% that had a certain width, has been greatly reduced and brought to levels that do not differ significantly for the whole of the country. You can see small differences, but it should also be noted that this plan concerns the nets of 30 kilovolt and below. Those are grids to distribution. There is also the major industry on Elijah's high-voltage grid. That's not in this plan. We explained this in the previous hearing. The switchability is directly in the contractual terms with Elia. This may mean that the figures you see do not reflect exactly what the disks are, but this is the correct reading of the ministerial decision, the application of the [[practically]] 5 %. In order to go into winter with a risk and determine it, we have considered it appropriate to propose the tool that Elijah had developed in this way; it is a tool that was never contested before and which was developed by the technicians in good faith with balanced disks of just as much megawatt. That was also shown here at the previous hearing. In view of the possibility of restoring balance by simply changing the mode of activation within the existing schedule of items, we have considered it appropriate to propose it in this way. That is what we began to prepare today for this modality. What does that mean in practice? In the two areas of the South concerned, individuals and businesses will be informed of their presence in a 6A or 6B, 5A or 5B, 4A or 4B band. In each call for relief, either tranches A or tranches B will be affected. On average, the activation frequency for these areas is halved. Before concluding, let me say what was the basis of Elias' action from the beginning of the problems of shortage. Not only since August 2014, when Objective 4 was switched off, but also since April and late March 2014, when we lost Objective 3 and Tihange 2, our first focus is on avoiding possible shutdowns. We have made probabilistic studies, which have shown the risk. We have drawn attention to these studies. Indeed, through these probabilistic studies, we are already taking account of the activation of the entire strategic reserve, and we are still counting on it to reach 850 megawatts for the coming winter. However, it is very important and fundamental to take account of the fact that in our analyses of risk, due to a lack of figures, we cannot integrate all the actions undertaken by companies and producers. For example, it is about additional power that producers can give to their plant or about consumption measures taken by consumers, in order to survive the few dozen critical hours that we will experience in the coming winter. We can only support all calls for awareness. There's still a certain amount of time. We are not yet in the critical months, the period from November to February-March. In any case, we continue to believe that, if the switches cannot be completely reduced or excluded, they can be reduced to a very large extent by consumption measures. We also pointed that out last time. An important consumption measure taken in consultation with and after approval of the CREG is the adjustment of the imbalance rate during the hours of scarcity, so that we give a very strong incentive to consumers to participate in energy saving at the critical moments in order to avoid the shutdown.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u21	Thank you for this presentation. Colleagues, as usual, we give you the floor for all your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u22	I thank the representatives of Elijah for the useful information they have given us. I have three brief questions for them. If I understand correctly, there are two things we need to distinguish in the legislative framework: an incident regime and a shortage regime, which we are talking about. I believe I understand that the legislation on incidents is fully in place and that reference is made to the Ministerial Decision of 2005. However, as far as scarcity is concerned, do I read in your note that there is no specific list of priorities for the scarcity situation? May I draw your attention to the fact that there is still legislative work to be done in this area? Would that be helpful, if in the future we should never again discuss such matters, hence the conditional wisdom of such problems, so that communication would be better? That's my first question. You will also have knowledge of the famous card that is distributed in all media, and the percentages of the power outage would be adjusted. For example, for southwest, the percentage went from 8.4 % to 4.2 %. We now know that Elijah is responsible for the tables, for the lists of cabins and so on. Was the distribution of that card the sole responsibility of the Secretary of State or was it Elijah's responsibility? Did that happen in conjunction? How did we achieve the new percentages? That brings me to my third question on the method of calculation. I am intrigued by the 5% on which much has been said. How do we get to that 5 %? I also know that the government cannot invade homes to turn off the television and the washing machine or anything else. That's not how it works. I understand that one works with cabin-based switching points, but I can't imagine that 5 % of the cabins would be equal to 5 % of the power. That would be too simple. I therefore still believe that the number of cabins should be seen in relation to population density: the greater the population density, the fewer cabins needed, and vice versa. If you say that there are more cabins locked in one zone than in another, you are making wrong decisions. That is why I would have liked to know how the calculation method works to get to that 5 %. It may be interesting to know how many high-voltage stations and how many cabins are involved. Can we get those numbers for the five zones? Finally, I read that Elia mentioned in a study that the number of hours the light can go out varies from 49 to 116. The Secretary of State denies this and says that it is not going to go so fast. My question is whether you can confirm these figures: 49 to 116 hours. What are these figures based on? I'd like to know more about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u23	Mr President, I would like to thank the representatives of Elia who have spoken with the desired clarity. There are still two small areas of shade. There is the inevitable question of why, when there is a 5% consumption target in an area, a standard criterion of 600 megawatts is given for an area that is substantially the same from a geographical point of view. Given the same number of slices in the area and given that there is a figure of 600 megawatts to be obtained, it is automatic that the effort will be greater where the consumption is less. How could it be thought that with a 600-megawatt package, we would be in the 5% criterion? Why did you take a lump-sum test when we were asked for a proportional criterion? It is this choice that is at the root of the problems we face today. The second shadow zone concerns rural and urban areas. In the event of unforeseen cuts, it is clearly stated in the Royal Decree that rural areas will be cut first. The legal basis is therefore there and this is not a problem. However, when one is in a situation of predictable discharge (at least at J-7), why is this criterion used? Rural areas are not expected to be relieved first in the event of a foreseeable cut. In this case, is the legal basis for first removing rural areas before urban areas solid? Could it not be the subject of appeals from the rural communes that would be injured? More or less 30% of urban areas are found to be off-plan. What is the objective criterion for determining exempt cities? I'm taking an example out of my province. Why is Bastogne exempt when Libramont is not? These are substantially identical cities in the province of Luxembourg. How did you choose out-of-plan cities? The legal basis is important in the case of subsequent appeals. Another, more comprehensive, issue concerns liability in the event of discharge. I have the impression that today, all the actors in the energy sector are trying to clear their customs in one way or another by saying that in the event of an activation of a release plan, the fault will be the responsibility of someone else. For you, who will then be responsible for the compensation of citizens and businesses who will suffer this situation? I guess your lawyers must have floored the matter. What are their conclusions? I come to my last question, which is of common sense. If, unfortunately, we were to activate this discharge plan, it would be inappropriate – for example, by admitting that tranche 6 is concerned – for the other slices to continue to consume energy in a usual way. It would be unacceptable for some citizens to make efforts, while others would continue their business as usual. How, then, can we raise awareness of the fact that people will be targeted by the latter, and, of course, of the cities outside the relief plan? Solidarity must be shown in this area. This is why the State will have to take comprehensive measures in case of activation of the release plan. That is, Madam and Mr President, the questions I wanted to ask Elia.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u24	In my turn, as representatives of Elijah, I would like to thank you for coming to Parliament twice in a very short time and giving us very clear analyses, a PowerPoint presentation and all kinds of information. That is certainly not obvious. On 3 September you also gave a lot of analyses and a clear PowerPoint presentation. That was good. After all, I have always stressed the importance of clarity and transparent communication. Over the last few weeks, there has been a lot of fuss about the switch-off plan and a lot of concern about the municipalities, the provinces, the businesses, the agricultural sector, as well as with us and the population. This concern can only be overcome by providing clarity and trust. However, the recent changes have given me the impression that there is once again concern and that confidence is falling. On 3 September, the exit plan was presented to the Chamber, the governors and the population. I asked if that plan was final. I didn't get a really clear answer to that in the Chamber, but from the Q & A on your website, which by the way is a very good initiative, I was able to conclude that the shutdown plan for the coming winter couldn't be changed anymore. When Secretary of State Fonck asked to adjust the imbalance, Elijah's first reaction was that no changes could be made to the exit plan. A few weeks later, we note that the exit plan has changed. The basis for the exit plan is the ministerial decision and there is the principle of equal treatment for every citizen. In that principle, we can all agree. If there is then an imbalance, I can see that changes are taking place. However, I find the timing of these changes very sad and unfortunate. First, the plan is presented to the governors, the people and Parliament, and then it is enough for a professor to say that there is an imbalance to re-examine everything. That's incredibly worrying. That takes away the trust. I'm very sorry about that. I'm just wondering if that couldn't happen sooner. Couldn't the Secretary of State's question have happened sooner, if you've all been working on the plan for so long? You never said anything about it. It's been defended by her here, too. Why couldn't that question be asked sooner? All these changes make me feel uncomfortable. You explained the changes. Is it not again creating an imbalance through these adjustments? That's the feeling that there's alive. The zones are divided into two other zones. Does it mean that the discs in the northern part will be switched off more than the discs in the southern part? Quite specifically, will northern families and businesses in Zone 6 be more likely to lose power than southern companies and families in the split-up zones 6A and 6B? That feeling now lives with the population. I would very much like you to give a clear answer to this. I do not want to go along with the story that it is a Community issue. I just want to know very clearly with figures what this is about. Is there another discrimination or not? Let us be clear about that, please. I would like that clarification from you, because Elijah's spokesperson said in an interview in Het Laatste Nieuws that certain people who live in the north of the country are switched off twice and in the south only once. Can you clarify this so that there are no more mistakes? What's the status of the plan now? Is it now the final plan or can it be amended? I would have liked to have clarified this. Then I have a number of follow-up questions after the previous committee. You have made it very clear which criteria are used to eliminate certain zones. At that time, I expressed my concern about rural areas, particularly the agricultural and horticultural sectors. This sector is heavily dependent on electricity. Putting a farm out of electricity for a few hours can have a drastic impact on animal welfare and plants, but also on SMEs. At that time I asked whether there could be a consultation with the agricultural and horticultural sector. You replied positively. Has that meeting taken place yet? What is the result of that? Or when will that happen? How do you see that? You also said that, of course, everything must be done to prevent a cut-off. That is your concern and we share it. At the latest hearing on 22 August, it was announced that a working group would be set up within the Energy Directorate-General, in which Elia and the CREG would also participate, in order to examine what temporary additional measures could still be taken to increase production capacity. We are now four weeks away and I wonder which thought trails have already been investigated. We were thinking of a demand response, to conclude even more contracts with large companies that can be switched off for a fee. There is also the slope of the emergency generators. I would like to have a state of affairs on these slopes and also to know what possibilities are still being explored.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u25	Mr President, before I come to my comments on the closure plan, I would like to make a preliminary remark. I have the impression that there has recently been a whole dynamic around the shutdown. We often meet in committee to discuss this. A government that takes itself seriously is prepared for what may come. We are still speaking hypothetically. From our group, we would like to see the same dynamics surrounding a non-switch-off plan or a switch-off plan. Here too, all hands on deck apply. It is necessary to examine what remaining capacity may be mobilised, where it will be kept on alert, when it can be mobilised and at what price. I would like to see a similar dynamic developing in this respect. I have a feeling that we will also have a political logic in the cut-off plan for a piece. It involves administrative entities, such as governors and mayors, while private parties and industry are involved in the deployment plan. That should not be an excuse for a different dynamic in both domains. For us, in a switch-on plan the same dynamic must play. I want to underline that every time. Elia has a number of big clients, who are very important in this matter. That is why I am asking for sufficient dynamism for the non-completion plan. If the government has to be prepared for the worst, should the situation arise, it must do the switch-off neatly. It must have a coherent plan and know how it works. It is therefore right that there are many questions about this. We must monitor the plan here in Parliament in a democratic manner. I would like to add my voice to the questions about the percentages and the maps. My reading is in any case that people have left absolute numbers, after which they have ended up with percentages that did not come out well. Then an exercise in percentages was made that gave a similar spread. If this exercise is then translated into absolute numbers, another debate will arise. However, sufficient questions have already been asked by the other Members. I come to a specific question on this issue, which has not yet been addressed. Personally, I do not understand that a switch-off plan, which is drawn up because scarcity will have to be dealt with, does not take into account decentralised energy production, thereby switching off additional capacity. In that case one can start again. After all, a switch-off plan has been drawn up, based on a certain capacity, but by switching off zones with a decentralised energy generation system that might have been included in the first plan, you will also disable them and you may recreate your plan. We do not understand at all that you also want to disable part of the decentralised generation in your switch-off plan. For example, the switch-off plan would eliminate some cogeneration plants. How do you deal with this decentralised power generation? In the first instance, the aim must be to maintain a maximum capacity and certainly not to disable capacity. On the contrary, more decentralised generation should be sought. At what price can we mobilise them? We also remain concerned about what happens to the port area of Ghent, a serious industrial axis in a specific situation. More generally, we consider it crucial that industry and SMEs can continue to produce. We would therefore like to see more attention paid to this. The question of consultation with agriculture and horticulture has already been raised. We want more general consultation with the representatives of SMEs and industry. We have the impression that they are sent to the crisis cell of the FPS Economy, then to the system operators, from the system operators to Synergrid and from Synergrid to the cabinet again, and that there is not a single point of contact for them where they can be properly informed. For us, it remains crucial for industry to be able to take on its role as a supplier, but on the other hand it must also be seen as a major consumer. That is a double argument to invite industry, and the whole enterprise field, to the table. I have the impression that there is a different dynamic. Administratively-politically, we sit more easily around the table with administrative levels, with whom perhaps our jargon, such as politicians, speaks more easily than with industry and companies. This cannot be an excuse at all. If we really want to survive a shortage, then politics must deal with it hand in hand with industry and businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u26	Mrs Tant, Mr Vandenberghe, in my turn I would like to thank you for coming here and for your explanation, for being here once again and for trying to answer the many questions that arise, not only from us, but also from other levels of government and from the citizens. I'll try to avoid repeating myself. However, I would stress once again that we must of course do everything we can to avoid the decoupling. That's why I would have liked to have heard about the sensitization. Mrs Ceysen has already referred to industry in this context, but I myself have a lot of questions and comments from smaller authorities in the provinces, who absolutely want to sensitise their inhabitants in general and with the switch-off plan in particular. It would be good if we had a framework for this. I also put the same question to the Minister and the Secretary of State. In my view, it is necessary to create a framework for the whole country to do so, so that everyone can be sensitized at every level of the region, the provinces, the cities and the municipalities, so as to avoid a decoupling. Could you give us a little more explanation? I am referring here to the reduction and not so much to production. However, I would also like to ask what progress has been made with the production. Is there anything more we can say about this? Is there any light in the darkness on the subject? As far as the closure plan itself is concerned, we agree that the closure is the ultimate measure. I still assume that we will not have to do that. If we do have to do so, I understand from your explanation that there are two things to be considered: the 2003 exit plan and the 2005 ministerial decision. The 2003 exit plan is more than ten years old. I hope, then, that a number of things have changed over time. I am thinking only of the number of producers who now produce electricity with alternative energy in certain local areas. That wasn't there in 2003. In the ministerial decision we are talking about two parts: the sudden phenomena, i.e. the immediate elimination, and the scarcity. At the previous committee meeting, I asked both ministers to give us the criteria for that exit plan, not so much to allow cities or regions to compete with each other, but above all to explain why X and Y are not being switched off. I am still very hungry there, because I understand from your explanation that, in the event of scarcity, there are no criteria in the ministerial decision, even though there is an internal procedure for implementation. Well, there's something. Can you tell me a little more about this internal procedure? You yourself said that you were actually based on the criteria for the sudden phenomena in order to draw up the exit plan. Then it is even more unclear to me why a large part of the port of Ghent is included in this exit plan, not to say the whole of the port of Ghent. When one looks at the criteria for the sudden phenomena, industrial processes, urban areas, industry with the aim of protecting industrial installations, clinics, emergency services, public transport, vital communication centres, etc., all occur in the port of Ghent. We have 180 companies in the port of Ghent that are now in the switch-off pan. Again, there are six Seveso plants. It's about 70 600 inhabitants, two hospitals, the port company, and it's a big problem when they're taken off and the maritime police. It is certainly very difficult for managers to explain why they are in the switch-off plan. Hence my question. What criteria have been used to put that port into that plan? Again, I absolutely do not want to compete here with other ports, nor with other cities. I just want to be able to explain. I come to a third question. We have the different regions and within them we have the different discs, from one to six. If I understand correctly, you may, of course, improve me, because I am not a specialist at all. However, if one has to switch off in the event of scarcity, it is not an automatic shutdown and one reverses the order, from 6 to 1. Is that right? Why is that, exactly? The high voltage cabs must then be switched off manually. If you look at the list of disks, it makes much more sense to go from 1 to 6, especially if you take those priority users into account. It is then very clear that from 1 to 6 these priority users have been taken into account. If one reverses the order, one also reverses those priority users. I'd like some explanation on that. Why do we have to reverse that order? How will this be organized if it is not automatic? Does it mean that people are going to be sent to drive to a cabin by car, to wait there until they get the message that they need to be disabled? How will this happen? I'm asking this question because the mayors are asking that question. They're not getting an automatic shutdown right now. It's gotta be a manual. Again, correct me if I'm wrong. How will this be organized at a time when communication will be very difficult? After all, there is almost no electricity. I'd like a little more explanation on that. The mayors have now been given a list of streets through the governors. I am told that this list is indicative and not yet certain. There could be huge differences per street. For example, in the case of a street, it is stated that a third party could be eliminated and two thirds could not be eliminated, but that this information cannot be communicated precisely. There will be good reasons for this, but when will the mayors finally get that list? Is that an hour before the shutdown plan comes into effect? Or is that used to be? This is not evident for communication to the citizen. I understand the list of streets will be released on the Internet tomorrow. Many citizens will then see whether or not they will be switched off. If they have questions to the mayor, he has to say that the list is still indicative, that he doesn't know yet, that it could be that one house number is there and the other isn't. Is this information correct? If so, when will the mayors get the lists definitively so that they can really inform the citizens? I have another question concerning communication in general. Will communication be entirely in the hands of the governors, in consultation with the FPS Economy and the Minister, or will Elijah also play a role in this? Now I want to talk about the start-up. What exactly happens at the startup? In the ministerial decision, I read what you have just said: 10 percent of any disk that is switched off could be switched back on within fifteen minutes. Will there also be a list of priority customers who can be re-enabled within 15 minutes? After all, I understand that a large hospital, for example, could already take 10% of a disk. Who will the priority users be correct? I assume that the hospitals will be served first, but it is necessary that this is a conscience and that it is also known that 10 percent of the hospitals in the area are immediately uprooted. Will the municipal authorities also receive a list of them? Some questions have already been asked by my fellow Members. There is a somewhat uncomfortable feeling about the publication of the maps on September 3, which had to be changed for all kinds of reasons. I suppose there are good reasons. Our information, which we have also received from the Secretary of State, shows that the maps were only handed over to her or her services on 2 September, so really only a day before publication. I'd like to know if that's true. If this plan dates back to 2003, it is strange that it was not released to the services until 2 September. Perhaps there are good reasons for this or perhaps the information is not correct. I'd love to hear it from you. Finally, I have a question that has already been asked by Mr Clarinval. What about responsibility? I have the impression that the producers do not consider themselves responsible at all today because it is an announced cut-off. Can you confirm that? Or are we going to have a legal procedure that will last for many years afterwards?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u27	Mr President, this is obviously not easy because this is a sensitive problem. I regret that the Secretary of State is not present. So I am not going to formulate an analysis at this stage, but to ask a series of questions. You have already come once and I thank you for that, but I have some questions left, which I have tried to group into five blocks to work in an orderly manner on what remains to be clarified. First, the question of the timeline. You have taken up the chronology in the document presented. I read your entire document well, even though I haven't been able to see all the images. In fact, your first proposal for a procedure dates from 30 November 2012. Was it very different from your proposal of September 2 or was it simply an adaptation of the evolution of the cabin situation? Did the then minister, Melchior Wathelet, have all the data in his possession to move forward calmly in terms of managing the shortage? My second question is still about the chronology of events. I assume you knew that the governors' meeting was held on September 3 at 9:30 a.m. and you sent the proposal on September 2 at 10:00 p.m. It is the information that was communicated to us by the Secretary of State a few days ago. Maybe you'll fix them. It's in the report of the committee. You're sending this at 10:00 p.m., while the meeting is the next day at 9:30 a.m. Frankly! Isn't that a way to catch them? How do you explain that it was so late? The Secretary of State tells us that, as soon as she received it, she gave first reactions, first questions. I therefore want to know when you received these first reactions. Did you receive them before or after the meeting with the Governors? There is an important enough element to understand why such a communication should be made, while now a part of it needs to be corrected. Everything is certainly not to be thrown away, but a part must in any case be corrected. Some people cut the cards in the newspapers, etc. For the northern part, this does not change but for the southern part, this will change since the cards received will be divided into two. I'm asking you these questions to try to understand. I may not have all the answers, but I will have at least facts, moments, dates, hours, etc. with you. as to why there was such a rush on September 3rd in the morning to make a communication, when it was only received on September 2nd. In addition, it would appear that between 10 p.m. and 9.30 a.m., a series of questions and reflections have already been forwarded to you. That is what we were told two days ago. When did you receive the first remarks and questions from the Secretary of State, her cabinet or her colleague? My next question is also about the timeline. Was inversion 1-6/6-1 in the slices already present in 2012? Or is that something that the government or the relevant ministers recently asked you to do? It is important to know this in order to know the logic of this plan. Was it already present in 2012 or not? Still in this line of time – I am on Wednesday the following week – you say or at least you are being told by the Secretary of State, or at least the Secretary of State tells us that you are telling him, that it is impossible to change. On Wednesday, she speaks in public or in front of the media, I no longer know exactly, to say that it is not possible to change. "It's going to be the boxon," these are exactly the terms used at that time. She's telling us that you're the one who's telling us that it's impossible. Two days later, it changes. There is therefore a question of the reliability of the information you would have given on Wednesday, that is, that it is impossible to change. We agree: everything does not change. But basically, for people, excuse me, it's "boxon," to use the word, and it's a famous change from the line defended on Wednesday. What did you communicate on Wednesday that had the Secretary of State say that that was not possible and that Friday had become possible? I have a question, always in the line of time: when, at your level, at Elia's, did you realize that the impact was differentiated? We will never say that this is a Community problem; that is not true. But it must be recognized that the impact was differentiated from one area to another. But when did you realize that? Before or after September 8th? Did this alert you before this university professor shared his analysis? Or is it after September 8th? Because you said, "Oh yes, that's right, we didn't think about it, all of a sudden we realize that it has an impact at this point." It is important to see the intentions that could possibly be behind. Still in the course of time, but retroactively, in L'Echo this morning, Minister Vande Lanotte suggested that he regretted that Elia had not invested more in the networks in Belgium, because there was a lack of energy highways in Belgium and otherwise his big project could already have been carried out. Could you provide us with a document detailing past and planned investments for the next decade? This could help us assess whether there was an underinvestment in Elia's head. On the slides you showed us, you presented a sum in column, per zone, where you arrive at a result of 720. If I have understood the logic, the dynamics in which we will be in case of a problem, the sum must be made per line, that is, per slice. You're making money at 730. In reality, by slice, we're at 520. Does that mean that if the problem is beyond the 520 – which is not to be excluded for certain days – the first and second tranche would be triggered at the same time? Is that correct? It would be important to explain this to us, unless it's clear to everyone except me. And so on. If we need four slices or five slices, do we activate them all? Since the gap is 3,000, we could go beyond that. Once the six or seven slices have been reached, will it be necessary to start again from the first? Unless I am mistaken, there is nothing in the Ministerial Order to say that it should be limited to seven tranches. So why not go further, that is to say at the end of the twenty slices? In fact, the order imposes the cutting into 5 % slices, i.e. 20 slices. Why do the same people suffer this inconvenience? Of course, I know that hospitals must be taken away from them. There is something that seems illogical to me, except to consider that we will never have to start a second round. But I can't imagine it today. For several days there may be a need greater than 500 or 1000 MW. Of course, I don't hope so. This is therefore a question of understanding. Also with respect to the Ministerial Order, in Chapter Five, three categories of priority clients are mentioned: - hospitals and health centres – and I assume we can bring in nursing and nursing homes; - the customers of the public distribution – and that's quite interesting, because we never talked about it. The order says they are a priority. However, according to what I have read, public services are first and foremost affected. I see something quite incoherent about it. I am thinking of what is proposed for SNCB or for public buildings. Moreover, Chapter Five applies to the situations we are talking about today. The order makes it clear; - and then, what are those consumers who enjoy preferential treatment under the 1945 Act? I repeat, Chapter 5, unlike the question of rural areas, applies well to foreseeable situations. There's a big question mark here. In a document from Elias that I found on the site, Procedure in case of energy scarcity, it is said that the order of slices can change. It's surprising enough for me. "If situation persists several days: order of manual activated levels could be changed'. What about it? We are told here that there is a very specific order and in Elia's document, they say that the order can change. Can you enlighten us on this point? Another question of understanding: how do you intend to activate positions within the same tranche? In what order and according to what criteria? You tell us that there is no criterion in the Ministerial Order for Chapter 3 and that, therefore, those in Chapter 2 have been taken. No! If there's one in Chapter 2, it's because we want to put it on! In Chapter 3, the general principle is equity. We can go back to the law or the Constitution, this principle prevails when there are no criteria! You will not invent the use of Chapter 2 while it is in Chapter 3. The general principles of equality of citizens, businesses, consumers and communities must be applied to meet the needs. I don't know how you or the government will get away with any recourse. To determine priorities, you use criteria that absolutely do not correspond to the existing situation. I visited the FPS Economy website to go into more detail and to find out how the distribution had been decided beyond the so-called Community question. It's weird because on the site, things are presented according to a provincial breakdown while you insist on cutting into five zones. Perhaps the site presents a breakdown by province to make things more understandable. It states that the first proposal was unbalanced (47% of cabins in East Flanders, 41% in Antwerp, 50% in Limburg, 72% in Hainaut, 72% in Namur, 82% in Luxembourg and 62% in Liège; only 19% in West Flanders). Then you correct this obvious imbalance in the second proposal. I didn't recalculate, but, basically, you're doing a correction. The 30% difference is then acceptable. However, in this proposal and what the minister has presented to us, a famous problem remains in the central area! How do you explain such an imbalance in this area? I'm withdrawing Brussels. Take the Flemish Brabant where 45% of cabins are hit and 93% of cabins in the Walloon Brabant! Even by integrating your own thinking, your own reasoning, which is to say that you have taken the rural areas, I say to myself "ok, but not so much"! Not to explain at this point an imbalance in the central zone. That will have to be explained to us. Even with the criteria that you use and that are not the ones I think are useful and necessary, there is a problem. I will listen carefully to your answer on this. I come to the ministerial decree in itself. In your opinion, does the Ministerial Order allow for this lump-sum distribution? Why six slices and not twenty? This is a question I have already addressed earlier and I repeat it because I would like to have an answer on it. And the criteria have already been addressed, too. The criteria for explaining that some cities are completely spared: for which article of the ministerial decree can we say so? The Secretary of State has already come, at least in August, to be remembered in the committee, and at that time she explains (on page 28 of the full report) that in fact the whole proposal you made is based on Chapter 2. But today you tell us that no, that it is not based on Chapter 2, but on Chapter 3. So there is obviously a distortion between the two versions. Then, and on that, you presented the things that I couldn't see because the brightness didn't allow us to look at it, but I think it's quite important, if not fundamental. We're talking a lot about undoing. But in the ministerial decree, there are two steps before the discharge. One, restrictions, two, prohibitions. I would find it useful to have a detailed slide that gives us – because we might have surprises as well – the proposed measures in terms of restrictions and prohibitions. And also to see when these two elements are involved in the journey between J-7 and J-1. Does this happen before J-7 or does it happen in the count that is launched at some point by you, unless I'm mistaken, at J-7? I would like to be very clear about these measures, because of course they reduce the need. We're not in undoing, we're still in forms of prohibition. Consider, for example, proposing that the Minister prohibit people from using their washing machine, dishwasher, etc. How can I control it? These are restrictions and even prohibitions. What is your list of measures prepared in this regard? We are talking a lot about unloading, but this is actually the third stage of the Ministerial Order. For the others, there are no clear details. I now turn to the letter you sent to the minister, which we received on Tuesday. In this letter, you say that "the events of 2014 did not allow to thoroughly update the relief plan". Now, today, you are telling us that you made a proposal in 2012, which seems to me much more logical, since it was in 2012 that the problem occurred in Tihange 3 and Doel 2 and that is where the warning signals go to orange or red. Yet, in this letter, you say: "The events of 2014 did not allow us to thoroughly update the relief plan." But you do it in 2012! I do not understand why you refer to the events of 2014, when these events are those of June 2012. This letter may have been written a little out of the blue, given the situation the government is putting you in. Then, again in the same mail, you mention the Operational Handbook Policy 5 several times. I have consulted this document. It refers only to emergency situations and not to situations of shortage. You therefore refer to emergency situations to justify the application and the possible tension between 5 and 10%. No, I don't! We're here in emergency management. I haven't read the whole Handbook in detail, but I've read the cases in which it applies: lightning falls, the network is broken, a plane... These are emergency situations, not situations of shortage. I don't understand why you're justifying this choice. But today, in your presentation, you didn't talk about Policy 5. In the letter you sent to the Secretary of State, you were talking about it. There is therefore an evolution in justification. In your mail, you wrote: "Unless you object quickly, we are able to achieve this improvement in the winter". Have you ever received any objections? You had to get them quickly. How long do you set the speed to be active this winter? What is the last date on which you will be able to activate this second version to make it operational in winter? A legal study is under way, as you know, as you read the committee reports carefully. This is a request from the Secretary of State. What is the time frame for you to still be able to incorporate any changes resulting from this legal study? I'm a little scared. I heard the GRD group announce that they're going to make a communication tomorrow, giving the streets. However, all this can still change! Areas A and B are not yet defined, if I understand correctly. And we're gonna make a communication on the streets, not knowing if they're in Zone A or Zone B. How can I get out of this? And without knowing whether, as a result of the legal analysis, other elements will have to be changed. I don't understand the reason for tomorrow's communication. Isn't there a problem? From your point of view, when will the new map - A and B - be ready? Secretary of State Catherine Fonck, to whom we asked the question last Tuesday, replied: "The sooner we get it, the better". Of course, it's quite consistent, but it doesn't tell us the date. As you are in charge of this work, I ask you the question: when will we have this new map? Of course, it will have to incorporate the comments of the legal study. I come to my last question, which refers to the document on the Brabo project, which you gave us on your first visit. You tell us that a 1,000 MW project is possible within a relatively short time. The delivery of PST 4 is scheduled for the end of the year. That's for the installation, but when will the additional 1,000 MW be injected? Is that also on that date? I do not understand why you wrote at that time that the 1,000 MW – and not the full - would first serve as a reserve, and only then as an effective injection. Could you explain yourself, because this distinction is not clear? Is the 1,000 MW project possible if Doel 1 and Doel 2 are extended? Should we completely realize Brabo? But then it would take us back to 2019. Mr President, I am fully aware that I have been a long time, but I hope that we will get precise answers. Last time I asked for some documents. Have you been able to share this with Elia? I would have liked to have received a copy of the internal safeguard procedure, as it is mentioned in the Ministerial Order, as well as the investment plan and, finally, the document "J-7 and J-1" with the specific procedures. I had looked for it on the SPF Economy website, but without success. That's why I'm formally asking you here.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u28	Mr President, Madam President, a lot has already been said and a lot of questions have been asked. I would like to reiterate the importance of the internal procedures and the criteria that you have established in order to determine the clearance plan. You explained the parallelism that was made with other criteria. In reality, this is not entirely the case since examples that do not meet the criteria for automatic clearance have been given. A fundamental point for us is how you get to these criteria. Are these purely technical reasons or are there a series of things that you take care of? Examples in Flanders show that the industrial side did not have any impact since you used another application, especially for the port of Ghent. The same applies to rural areas. It's been said, some of them are unloaded and others aren't. Hospitals are not left unharmed. Bastogne, who owns a hospital, was mentioned, but there are others who are not injured and who do not have a hospital. I would also like to know how you are going to define sub-areas A and B of the South-East and South-West zones. What distribution are you going to use? How will you organise the communication vis-à-vis the ministers and governors responsible for transmitting this information to the mayors? In 2005, when you submitted the draft ministerial order and the draft relief plan, did the then minister ask you to conduct an impact assessment of the criteria used to develop the plan? Much has been said about the preparation of this 2005 relief plan. On the other hand – we have just talked about it but not always with the same figures – can you confirm that between 2005 and 2012, no request to adapt an updated list of posts was made? I just heard Mr. Nollet say that the government may have embarrassed you in 2012. However, I do remember and read in several documents we received in August that it was in 2012, at the request of Melchior Wathelet, that the Crisis Centre (documents received from the Ministry of the Interior during the August hearings) was activated. Information and prevention of the risk of shortages in 2012 are therefore already known, although it is certainly evident during the winter of 2012 that there is no need to go further in the procedure. I also wonder, even if this does not directly concern Elia, whether, from 2012, the regional energy ministers are requesting their DSOs to obtain information on this matter. It's important. It may be another person who can answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u29	Mr President, first of all I have a question which we have asked repeatedly at the previous meeting, where you were not present. I hope we can have an answer today from the representatives of Elias or the cabinet. Is this map per street, which we have often talked about, feasible? Are we going to have it, when, how? How will it be broadcasted? Who's gonna make this map by street? Will it be final? That is a specific question. It would be nice to have, if possible, a precise answer. If you can't give the answer, can you tell us who can? Then you explained very well to us that the order of priorities, for which there is a legal basis, was made for sudden cases, when one cannot predict long in advance that there would be a problem. And we've done a copy-paste of these rules for situations of shortage, which are predictable. The question I am asking myself, precisely, without a legal basis, is whether the same principles, the same priority rules, should be applied. You mentioned the fact that there are priority areas, particularly industrial areas, are a priority over rural areas; there are also priority clients - industries are a priority over households. This can be understood when there is a sudden event that occurs, because indeed the company could not foresee, take all the necessary steps to deal with a cut. But from the moment it is programmed, is it not more logical to change the order of priorities, and to say that here, an industry can post its production for a few hours, it is not serious if it can prepare for it; it has the technical means, the staff needed to prepare for it. While for households, there are very different situations. The situation can be serious. There are perhaps lone parents with several young children; isolated elderly people, all kinds of situations like this, families with sick people, people with disabilities... All of these situations make it possible to say that in the case of a cut, a programmed release, one could change the order of priorities. I submit this idea, this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u30	Madam President, as I am the last speaker, I will be very brief. A lot of things have been said anyway. First of all, I thank the representatives of Elias for their presentation. I have the impression that you started from a hypothesis that did not take Doel 4 into account - but maybe I'm wrong. If that is the case, I regret that Electrabel is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u31	It'll be next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u32	That's a shame, because we could have done everything together. Thus, we could have known the state of Doel 4's resumption of business. This represents 1,000 MW which we could easily find and which, I believe, would do us a lot of good. So I'll wait next week... but then you'll pass me first? I had a second question. We often talk about hospitals. This is an area where events such as lightning are foreseen. Because they cannot afford power cuts, they have generators to deal with this type of incident. Do you have any idea how long the discharge takes? Will it last an hour, two hours, four hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u33	Mr. President, I won't be long either. We must pay attention to the words that are spoken. Mr Vandenberghe, when you explained to us that you had changed the plan, you said: 'the 'pretent' imbalance'. If you speak in these terms, then why did you rebalance the plan afterwards? Either there was an imbalance, or there was no imbalance. But if this was a "pretentive" imbalance, there was no reason to adapt the plan to this criterion of equity between all citizens and among all companies, which was recalled by Mr Nollet, whose demonstration I will not repeat. We are not in a committee of inquiry, although sometimes we have a bit of that impression, but there are legitimate questions from citizens and some colleagues, particularly about Ghent. It was quite incomprehensible and we still did not understand after your explanations. We should still be transparent, not only for the committee but also for the citizens. It would be a great effort of transparency if you gave all the criteria that influenced your decisions for some sites. Everyone has expressed fears for hospitals, which is normal. Are they really priority and will they be reactivated a quarter of an hour later, if they are in a clearance area? Normally, priority buildings are reactivated a quarter of an hour later. Will that be the case? According to the Secretary of State, and in my opinion, it is not up to you to determine the priority clients. Have you determined them? Otherwise, who determined them and with whose approval? If I understand correctly, the plan was appended to the Royal Order in 2005, but it was illegible according to Mr. Wathelet. You told us that this was done after the advice of the CREG, after the opinion of the SPF Economy, in consultation with the Regions and the Minister of Economy, who normally had to verify all the elements. Is that a reality? I would like to know because responsibilities must be placed where they are. This order was actually taken in 2005, with difficulties for Ghent in particular. Last thing I don't think you're up to, but tell us if that's not the case for us to ask the right people the questions. Many people have advised to avoid any relief plan. Mr Nollet reminded us, as Mrs Temmerman did, and so on, we must not forget what happened before. It seems to me that this "before" is a little neglected at the moment. That is to say energy savings, customers, negotiations with companies, solidarity of the population. I would like the Brussels Region to be fully supportive of all the areas that may be affected. We don't hear much about it. Is a working group thinking about it? Are you one of them? Do you think it's not your job to do this today? Is it up to others to do this job? To other DRMs, FPS Economy, regional ministers, governors? Who's gonna do this job and how? How can this be effective? If we warn on November 30... I thought the danger zone was in January-February. You're talking about November-March. I'm pretty scared. It seems to me that this is getting longer in relation to what was said in the procurement plan that you gave us, with the different scenarios. You who know this energy and the reactivity of companies and citizens, what time frame do you consider necessary to convey a clear, redundant message of solidarity to all people, so that it has a real effect and avoids any plan of relief? I think that the majority of people, the public authorities, even if they are not affected today, want to be in solidarity so that we do not have to resort to these relief plans. Indeed, we know that a clearance plan will cost everyone at some point. We come to the end of the questions. I give you the floor again and let you decide the order of the answers. Try to answer as many questions as possible. If you need time to answer specific questions, you can send us the answers by e-mail later.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u34	Madam President, it is important to take up what was said at the presentation, first of all with regard to the role of network manager. It is Elia who notifies that there is a shortage problem and indicates the extent of the problem, the volume and the location. These are messages given by Elia. The Minister then decides what action to take, whether it be awareness-raising or reduction measures. What is Elia's role in this awareness-raising campaign and reduction measures? I repeat that this is the initiative of the minister's administration. This is not Elia's initiative even though it does not prevent Elia from working on a proposal with the administration. It is the Minister who decides on the actions to be taken, who analyses and studies the various measures to raise awareness and reduce consumption. I wanted to say it again. As regards the legal framework, which has also been mentioned on several occasions, the ministerial decree provides for two situations: sudden phenomena and the situation of shortage. In the latter case, there is no criterion. Clearly, there is first the first phase of notification Elia - action to be taken by the minister. If the measures are not sufficient, the Minister may decide to instruct the transmission system operator to discontinue liaison with customers or certain categories of customers. There are therefore no criteria. The minister can decide what he wants! It is thought that if the minister is asked to decide, in the absence of a procedure, he will not be able to do so within 24 hours in the event of a real problem. For the sake of efficiency, Elia has proposed, since 2003, to resume the list of posts that are detestable in the event of a sudden event and to apply it to the situation of shortage. Behind this list, there is a lot of preparation work. It's not just a list of positions. Based on this list, DRMs must identify low voltage cabins, the administration must determine municipalities and streets, and the crisis cell is also working on the file. It is therefore not from one day to the next that we change the positions and that we have two different procedures for both situations. From the point of view of efficiency, this seems difficult. That is why we have proposed applying the same procedure in both cases. But ultimately, it's not up to Elia to decide. We are proposing a plan; we have been proactive; we have never received any comments on our proposals...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u35	Depuis 2012!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u36	No, already since 2003. There have been some changes, but the procedure has always been the same. The situation is what it is and I can only point out that the final decision on the application of the procedure or measures rests with the minister. Elia has been proactive in proposing a procedure identical to that relating to sudden events for the sake of efficiency in the approach and to avoid a double work of other bodies such as administration, crisis cell or DRM. As far as the time line is concerned, we have already made a proposal in 2003, a few months after the entry into force of the technical regulation, since it is a legal obligation. This proposal for a ministerial decree and a proposal for a list of posts were transmitted. Later, this procedural proposal was adapted and discussed with the administration and Minister Wathelet. There has not really been any adjustment to the procedures and we have never received a request to adapt the list of detestable positions. This list of detestable posts was first transmitted in 2003 and then in 2012. In 2014, there was an update but only on the basis of technical criteria, depending on the work that had been carried out in the posts. There was therefore no real change in the procedure or list of delestable posts. There is also a lot of confusion about what happened on 2 September. On 20 June 2014, and already in 2012, Elia sent an updated list of delestable posts. This list of delestable posts is the basis for, after that, mapping. But it's not Elia who can do the mapping. There, it is really the basic document that was used by the administration, crisis cell, GRD, (...) to establish cartography. And it was this mapping that was sent to Mrs. Fonck on September 2, but not by Elia, since it was not Elia who did it. So Elia didn't send any documents on September 2nd to Mrs. Fonck. It's not Elia, there's a confusion I think somewhere, but it's not Elia who submitted a document. It was either the (...) or the Crisis Centre or the administration, but it was not Elia who submitted a document. On 3 September, Elia also participated in the press conference, but finally before that, the explanation given by Mrs Fonck and the governors with regard to the relief plan. What did Elia give as an explanation? Not on mapping, since it's not Elia's work. It was really about the different slices and geographical areas. There has also been the question of the role of Elia and whether Elia is making efforts to communicate – but clearly, yes – since Elia is invited to all the meetings that are organised by the governors for the time being, together with the GRDs, to explain the relief plan to the communes, to the mayors. Here, I think these were the most important points.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u37	In the meantime, we will continue sorting. In the meantime, I may be able to answer practical questions about the discs, the organization of the discs and the percentages. A first question was how to get the corresponding 5 %. The figures you have seen as final figures are relatively accurate. During the winter peak of 2013, we took the consumption during the peak for the total of the zones for each of the five zones. We also took consumption in the switch-off stations during the same winter peak. Therefore, this is the ratio between the peak consumption in the delestible cabins in the previous winter and the total peak consumption in the area concerned. This can be verified using the percentages that are displayed at the end of our presentation. For us, therefore, there is no consideration on the basis of the number of cabins or the number of items, but on the basis of the consumption during the winter peak. As far as the number of cabins is concerned, we are indeed seeing higher figures on the Walloon side, because on average the consumption per cabin is lower there, but that has certainly not played a part for us. I apologise, Mrs Lalieux, if I was talking about an alleged imbalance. If you count percentages, there was indeed an imbalance, and we have indeed proposed correcting it. One of the first questions asked was about the LOLE, especially whether we expect 49 hours or 116 hours of trouble. There is absolutely no contradiction between the Minister's statement and what we have said. The figure simply does not take into account all the measures that can be taken. We must make sure that the LOLE stays much lower, and can even go down to 0 thanks to the switches. A question has also been asked about the discs. Can the order be reversed? For technical reasons, in case of sudden phenomena, disk 1 is always started. That has to do with the setting of frequencies. For technical reasons, the order is disk 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. For example, in November 2006, disks 1 and 2 were switched off. You didn't have to go up to 3. However, freedom of decision lies entirely with the Minister. The Minister also announced this at the meeting with the governors on 3 September. It seems logical to work in the opposite order. That is indeed one of the possibilities. There may also be other criteria. If we can avoid a shortage, so much better, but once there is, it is quite likely that we will have to switch off several disks on consecutive days. However, let us continue to try to avoid this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u38	Mr. Nollet asked you a specific question. You say a day, two or three. Suppose it's three days in a row. The first one, you have to do 1, 2, 3 and 4. The second one, you'll start from the 5th or the 1st? That was Mr. Nollet's question, to which you did not reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u39	The Minister will decide, but it seems logical to us that the burden should be spread as much as possible. When someone has already been hit in the last few days, they take the following drives. We take the successive slices.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u40	That's right. You don't have a problem continuing up to eight or twelve?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u41	No, no! There's only six of them. That's another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u42	We must also answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u43	6A, B, C, D. 6A, 5A, etc. And then, 6B, 5B, 4B. After that, we have no other way. We only have the 30%. Then we'd go back to 6A, 5A, etc. Why not twenty slices? If something has to be developed to ensure that the country is structurally in need of electricity, the 3,000 MW and the number of tranches have to be increased. We're ready to work... Let us hope that we can forget the problem of scarcity. Thirty percent of Belgium's consumption is decoupled. This is in line with what is happening in neighbouring countries. One could make an investment to go with twenty discs to 100 %, but that is not for this winter. One can indeed ask that question. Is that the answer to your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u44	We'll never go beyond the 3,000. That's not what I meant. But in the example presented, as we activated the first four, we could then activate others but never more than 3,000 MW at the same time. Of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u45	We could equip the whole country.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u46	That's what the order said, because it's in 5 percent. It is not written to make 5 tranches of 5%.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u47	No, but that's the reality today: 6 slices 6 A and 6 slices 6 B. As far as tranches are concerned, Policy 5 speaks of emergency, but it is a situation of shortage. If it is not managed, it can lead to a situation that is technically an emergency. The link is therefore not completely neutral even if Policy 5 focuses on emergency situations. I shall now turn to the problem of the specificity of the tranches. Several questions were asked about Ghent. Elijah has 15 stations on the territory of the city. In the port, Elia has eight very large industrial consumers, directly on the network. Those eight large consumers in the port of Ghent are protected. They're continuous companies. Of the fifteen stations in Ghent's territory, ten stations........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Five stations on the territory of the city are not protected. The two red bulbs in the middle of the port area, in the north of the city, in Desteltonk and Sint-Kruis-Winkel, are two stations that have been on the list since 2005. The problem now is that a very large industry has recently developed there. There are also stations elsewhere in Flanders where there has been a very large industrial development. So ten out of fifteen stations are protected. Those ten stations are divided over the city centre and the port area. For two stations, the city of Ghent indeed identifies problems for which we fully understand. It is a problem that will also arise in many other places in the country. These are stations that are historically in the system and were rural, but have experienced important and perhaps crucial developments. Those are the findings we are making today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u48	In view of what you are telling us, I wonder if Elia could not review these posts regularly, every two years, according to the economic or other development of Belgium. Is it too complicated technically?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u49	Mr Vandenberghe, I am sorry, but what you are saying is not entirely correct. You say that there has been industrialization since 2005. Now, Volvo has been around for much longer than 2005 and ArcelorMittal as well. You are telling me that they are not included, and that is true, but all the suppliers are in it. That would mean ArcelorMittal can't work anymore. The hospital of Gentbrugge has existed since the 1940s. So it's not true that this dates back to 2005. I still do not understand from your explanation exactly what criteria have been used. So you say that there are only two for the city of Ghent, and I agree with that, but it is all about the port area. No port in Belgium is affected except the port of Ghent. Security services such as the police and the fire department say that they cannot guarantee safety in that case. So if you say now that industrialization has suddenly happened, that it has expanded since 2005, that is not right at all. The port, with the companies located there, has been around for a long time. That is why I do not understand why the crucial aspect of that area was overlooked. Again, I really don't want to turn my back on other cities. At the last committee meeting, I also told the Minister that we must show solidarity. Some cities will be affected and others will not be affected, and I would like to fully endorse them. The city of Ghent wants that too, but not if it threatens to cause so many problems. You still have to explain to me why exactly those two posts are in it. After all, there are so many inevitable things hanging around. Not me or the mayor, but the security forces call that inconvenient.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u50	Mrs. Temmerman, I understand your anger. The companies you mentioned were among the eight exempt large consumers. The problem that has arisen in these two hundred posts, namely that the companies affected by the two terminals are also essential and necessary for the continuity of Volvo, ArcelorMittal and the six other large companies that will indeed remain fed, is a problem that may also arise elsewhere. We must admit that the plan does not take this into account. However, I am not saying that the posts St. Kruis-Winkel and Desteltonk in the north of the port were completely rural. SMEs and industrial areas were also involved in this issue in 2005.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u51	Mr Vandenberghe, the demarcation of the port area dates back to 2003. Then there was a demarcation of the port area. So it was definitely not a rural area in 2005.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u52	I'm not saying it was a rural area. It is true that several industrial areas in Flanders, Wallonia, Brussels and the centre of the country have been affected. It doesn't make sense that we're completely out of curiosity. Here you indeed have two major stations in the north of the Ghent port area that have a critical function. In the next round we will certainly look at them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u53	Mr Vandenberghe, there is the explanation, but there is also the future. Is there any way to change the plan? After all, when I hear that safety cannot be guaranteed, there is clearly an imbalance. We have recently learned that an imbalance can be remedied by an adjustment of the criteria, by a different order. In other words, can you solve the problem? After all, a switch-off plan that jeopardises safety is a bad exit plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u54	There are two safety issues. For the coming winter there is the 10% for safety. That 10 % is a guide value. That can be discussed further. A detailed inventory is now under way with Synergrid, the distribution system operators and the governors. What does this 10% mean for the safety issue? That 10 % is a guide value. It is not stated in the Ministerial Decree that this 10% should not be exceeded under any circumstances. That is a first point. In the long term, for the future, the list of cabins and stations will indeed be fully opened. That is also something that we should not just decide on.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u55	But it's possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u56	It's possible, but not for the coming winter. For the coming winter, as far as safety concerns are concerned, we can certainly work on that 10% as a guide value, not as an absolute limit.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u57	Mr Vandenberghe, I apologise for my emotions about this, but they are only motivated by concern. I hope you accept that. What can't we understand? If one respects the order of the disks, from 1 to 6, then those drives were not in it. It is still unclear to me, even after the explanation, why the order has been reversed. I have been told that if it happens automatically, the order is respected; now that it has to be done manually, however, the order must be reversed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u58	We didn't say we should. We have explained the problem to the Minister. We didn't look at individual disks. The Minister has said that it seems logical that we should reverse the order of scarcity, as it is different in the case of sudden phenomena. That's not a fixed rule. I would also like to say something else about that order. It is always proposed as if we will decide, at the latest on day 1, that people will certainly be in the dark. Unfortunately, it will often occur that the discs that are at risk for the next day will not have to be switched off after all. That will probably happen and everyone will be happy, we suspect. If we announce that the drives are 6 and 5 tomorrow at risk and we manage to get through the day, then we have not switched off. That's a possibility. What's to be done? Then the next day one has to decide which discs are at risk. Only at the beginning of the crisis is the order of those discs so fundamental. If there's a real crisis, it'll move.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u59	Mr Vandenberghe, I understand that, but why is it logical to reverse that order?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u60	That order is nothing more than a suggestion. We have also proposed that only a number of discs should be used. The order six, five, four, three, two, one, doesn't need to be held. One can also take three, four, one, two. So it's just a suggestion. As I said, there are no fixed criteria. In the end, it is up to the Minister to decide, taking into account the content of the discs. So we are making a suggestion without certain criteria. I would also like to return to the criteria themselves. In our presentation we explained that the composition of the list of posts has also grown historically, according to the development of the network and depending on whether or not the post is equipped with frequency relays. Those criteria determined whether or not a post was included in the list. In addition, other criteria have played a role, such as the question of rural, semi-rural, urban or industrial areas. In addition, we must achieve a sufficient volume of shutdown per zone. That is also very important. If we take these three criteria together, then we find that it is not obvious to find adequate posts. Thus, not just one criterion has been played, but a set of criteria has been charged to enable that list to be drawn up. Today I hear the message that the plan, the list of posts, is fixed and that it is not possible to change it before the coming winter. I do hear a lot of concern, though. After the winter, it can be verified whether these criteria are still current or realistic. Indeed, the use of the zones has also evolved, as has the destination of the zones, for example from nature or forest to industry or SME zone. The criteria can therefore be reviewed, with the details given to them. Today, however, except for the guide value of 10 % to switch on again, there is no margin to change anything to the list of posts themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u61	I think it's a little late. It is now said that these things can still be changed on the basis of what has happened today. Between 2005 and 2014, there are nine years in which this development has not even taken place, as it dates from before. I'm stuck with the question. Why do people now think they have a problem there? I have still not received an answer to the question as to what criteria have been used. You say there are no real criteria for Chapter 3. I read in the ministerial decision that there is an internal procedure for implementing the rescue code. It must contain those criteria. This internal procedure dates back to 2003.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u62	You're telling us there's no way to change for this winter. I am actually hearing what we have already heard on 10 September. I'm asking you to be careful. In committee, a concern was identified in the Ghent region. I've identified a second one in the Central Region. I would like to take some time to see what is happening in this area on the basis of the maps, because this disproportion must also be mentioned. Why is there no way to make an A and B zones to solve these problems? If necessary, take two more days to think about it before the cards are published. Maybe there's a way to change by distinguishing things. This may offer less risk that Ghent will be solicited at that time as it will fall down in the order of priorities. I ask you to have the same thought about the Central Region, and above all not to block everything today. Otherwise we will find ourselves in the same situation as last week: we said we couldn't change anything but we changed forty-eight hours later!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u63	As Mrs Tant has said and as we have always said, the list of stations is fixed. Activation modalities and volumes for the re-integration of priority customers, especially where there are security aspects, are of course not yet established. The activation decision will be taken by the Minister on the basis of suggestions from the network operator.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u64	Mr President, I would like to join Mrs Temmerman. As I said in my first speech, first of all, we also have fundamental questions about the fact that, according to the plan, decentralised energy production is being switched off. That is a great concern for us. We really don't understand that. Secondly, we also have questions about the situation in Ghent. I fear that we will find ourselves in the situation Mr Calvo mentioned at the beginning of the sitting. Shouldn't the politically responsible, the Secretary of State, be here? I understand that Elijah can only come here to explain how it has tried to act objectively, neutrally and technically correctly, but at the end of the journey, however, it is necessary to try to make a mix, which is considered, objectively and neutrally, with a number of political corrections. I understand that you understand that political corrections are possible at some point. So I fear that the committee will once again fall between two seats.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u65	Mrs. Ceysens, we don't have to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u66	It is up to us to proceed with this wisely. I hear you say that you will not change the plan for the coming winter and that you will have to go through it in the coming winter, but that you will have to draw up a different plan for the next winter. Fortunately it is not winter yet, we are lucky to stay a few weeks. The plan will not have to be corrected after the coming winter anyway; we ask that the relevant information that we have been able to dig up here, perhaps not before this winter, but at least now be included in the plan. And what can happen before the coming winter? I do not see why we should not do that with the political leaders.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u67	Madam President, Mr President, I would also like to thank Elia. After all, I believe that we have received more answers today than the day before yesterday. Allow me to briefly repeat my question from last Tuesday. She fits in with the harbor story. Of course, the plan will also hit the heart of our economy. To what extent did the switch-off plan take into account potential economic damage? It is a very clear question to which the Minister and the Secretary of State have not been able to answer. I hear Mrs Tant saying that two swords of Damocles hang over our heads, the sudden and unexpected power outage. In March 2014, the Federal Planning Agency calculated what a blackout would cost our country. It's about 120 million euros for the first hour. For two hours, we are going to go to EUR 170 million. I assume that you have already calculated what a brown-out, being the controlled, regional cut-off, will cost our country and, consequently, our regions. Can you share those calculations with us?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u68	This was actually a new question, while the answers to the old questions were not exhausted. So I suggest that you try to answer the questions asked at the start of the current session.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u69	One question concerned the status of adaptation to procedures in the event of a shortage. What is the status of the September 12 letter that Elia sent to the Secretary of State for Energy? In this letter, we did mention "unless you object, this will be incorporated into our procedure". What is Elia's follow-up? This letter of September 12 was an indication of the proposal that we made in that connection. We intend to send to the Secretary of State the famous internal note which describes the procedures that Elia must follow in case of a shortage and adapt it according to the proposal that we have formulated. Again, it is not up to the minister or ministers to approve this note. The regulations do not provide for the Minister of Energy to approve this note. We do, however, make ourselves available to him to take account of his observations, if any. It is a question of being able to tell the minister, in a situation of shortage, a few days before the finding of a shortage: we inform you that there is a risk of a shortage and we invite you to take awareness-raising measures and prohibition measures and, if necessary, we ask you for permission to activate means of relief. How do you consider that these removal means must be achieved, on the understanding that we have prepared procedures which are activation in increments of more or less 500 MW from tranche 6 to tranche 5? In this case, it is up to the Minister to decide what action to take. We will adapt our internal note to the proposal we are going to make. We will submit it to the Minister of Energy. It's up to her to see what she's doing with it. If she gives us her objections quickly, we will see to what extent we are able to adapt it if necessary. But from our point of view, from the point of view of legality, because I think it is this element which questions it strongly, we are fairly certain that these procedures are not contrary to any particular provision of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u70	Er wasook nog de vraag puts betrekking tot... the responsibility in case of discharge, which was already posed at the last audition, I think. Elia is a manager of the infrastructure, of the transport system, so there are responsibilities for the management of the infrastructure. There are liability clauses in its contracts (connection contracts, access contracts). Clearly, I cannot take a position, Elia can hardly take a position on the responsibility of suppliers. Elia can just take a position on her own responsibility, in terms of transportation. As long as it is not the result of a bad manoeuvre by Elia, it is a situation that was predictable, but for which it is imposed on us by the minister to remove. This is not a fault committed by Elia, and therefore there is no responsibility within Elia. As for the other tracks, I can hardly take a stand. Is the shutdown plan final? There is concern because it first announces something that will be changed again two days later. The list of posts is final. So that wasn't changed. It is the implementation procedures that have been amended, after unfortunately late identification of an unbalanced situation, in view of a target criterion which is set out in the Ministerial Decision. This is one of the few guidelines it contains, i.e. 5% of consumption per zone. After the imbalance has been established, knowing that the list of posts and the corresponding procedures for cartography and crisis planning cannot be affected, Elia proposed the solution of a partition in intermediate discs, disk A and disk B, as a performance modality to remedy that imbalance. There were also questions about agriculture and horticulture. There has already been a consultation with the chairman of the Boerenbond on agriculture and horticulture and on concerns about decentralised production. There has been no further concrete consultation, but we will certainly continue to do so. In addition, Elijah receives a lot of questions from SMEs and companies to enter into consultations. On the one hand, we also have our direct customers, who have their direct contact with us. On the other hand, we need to refer customers connected to a distribution network, such as smaller companies or private customers, it is not Elia who has made the cartography, to the distribution system operators in order to give them more information about their situation, which does not prevent us from actively participating in information sessions organised by the governors for the municipalities in order to provide the necessary crisis plans. We are therefore active in this, but only in our role in implementing the cut-off at the request of the Minister and identifying the posts that form the basis for the cut-off.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u71	Mr. Nollet asked about the Brabo project. If we had the Brabo project as previously planned, we would already have more than 1,000 megawatts on the northern border. Now, we are actually putting an end to this year's additional transfo. It is also a reserve, on the northern border, but it will not be able to debit because there are still investments to be made, which are alternatives that we began to consider after the failure of the first Brabo project. We're going to drain, inject 1,000 megawatts to Doel, which electrically actually somewhere will compensate for Doel 1 and Doel 2 shutdown. If there's an extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 and Doel 3 reboot, maybe we'll have to review that. But we'll find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u72	Is there a technical way to do both?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u73	We need to look at it. In any case, we are currently considering – we are working with the law that is now written – that we will be able to inject an additional 1,000 megawatts to Doel, which comes from the North, mid 2016. It was in our previous note. If Doel 1 and 2 start, but Doel 3 stays at a standstill, it will certainly be the same 1,000 megawatts we can inject there. If everything starts up again at Doel, I can't answer. We're going to look at this scenario. We certainly don't want to link import to Doel's production. I would like to insist on that. This must be kept separate. Decentralized production is indeed a phenomenon of the past five years. This is important and we will look together with the distribution system operators where we may be able to use it as a priority if they are significant contributions. There is also a lot of decentralised production wind and sun. I'll give you a somewhat simplistic answer. If there's a lot of wind and sun, we don't think we should switch off. Hopefully it will work that way. There is indeed a concern for CHP. We need to look at them in order to re-enable them as a matter of priority, and we need to take them into account as much as possible in another release, if it is decided. But CHP often involves a lot of small and scattered installations, while we work more at a macro level. It is not always possible to take those individual installations into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u74	I support the appeal made by several Members in the Chamber. It makes sense that there are a lot of questions about the shutdown plan. Those questions weren't there before, because in the past no one thought that cutting off and scarcity could be a reality, especially in 2003. I do not think it is politically easy to take the word shut-off in the mouth either. That is why many of these procedures have not been really looked at or challenged to date. Now reality is getting very close. I continue to point out that our starting point is technical efficiency, taking into account the criteria of the Ministerial Decision as far as possible. That was the basis for the list of posts. This is a good preparation for the coming winter, together with our partners, the administration, the crisis cell, the GRD and DNB. We must not put that into full question now. I think it is good to have the debate so that everyone can ask their questions and we can identify the pain points, but it is still very important to have the debate on what we can do to avoid the shutdown. I would like to underline that once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u75	In this regard, several members of the Commission have asked who should ensure that they do not reach a level of relief, i.e. reduce consumption and raise awareness among the public and public authorities. You did not answer that question. There is another question that many members have asked and to which you have not answered, whether a quarter of an hour after shutdown, hospitals will again be connected to the network.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u76	Indeed, Madam President, there is still a list of questions, including the one on hospitals, about which we cannot say anything else that there are agreements with distribution managers on re-engaging within a quarter of an hour. There are many issues that are the responsibility of Synergrid and on which Synergrid works: priority clients, the re-engagement of hospitals, security issues, street maps, social and economic impact analysis. In this regard, already in 2012, the SPF Economy and the Directorate-General for Energy began the study on this part of the issue. We are fully prepared to take this into account if future analyses help to better guide the development of such a plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u77	With regard to the issue of awareness-raising and reduction measures, the notification is made by Elia. We can detect seven days in advance, on the basis of our own analyses or notification from one of our suppliers, that there is a risk of a shortage. It's Elia who's notifying the minister. It is up to the minister to take the necessary action. The initiative to analyse the various measures to be taken is not a matter for Elias. It is therefore not up to Elia to communicate the results of the various working groups. We're associated with it, but it's not our responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u78	Is the risk notified to J-7 and J-1?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u79	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u80	What about the center question?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u81	(...) Of the 92% of Walloon Brabant, but it remains to be seen if it is in the center. The part in the south-east or south-west is already divided into two slices A and B. This must be seen as a whole. In any case, the equipment of some cabins is a bit old. I cannot answer you very concretely, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u82	Like the situation in Ghent, I would ask you to analyse this one. Maybe I'll take you off guard. Nevertheless, I ask you to look at this within the time limit – that is, within the next few days. It is a matter of avoiding a new imbalance, when you have just corrected one.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u83	You have repeatedly used this notion of imbalance. The one that we corrected for the south-east and south-west areas was relative to the ratio that was provided for in the ministerial decree and which highlights the unbreakable power in relation to the consumption of the area. This ratio was not good for both areas. So we corrected it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u84	He wasn't good, when you said earlier that he was acceptable. Semantic evolution is interesting...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u85	Please see it, it's with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u86	At least, like that, things are said.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u87	We have improved our procedures to tend...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u88	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u89	Mr. Nollet, please, you know you can reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u90	For the centre, the criterion, which is provided for in the ministerial decree, is that the discharge power on consumption leads to a result of 5%. Why target the municipalities around the Brussels Region, to speak in geographical terms – and we are trying to speak in administrative terms, when you have heard on several occasions that our remarks were operational? This is because the list of positions that are taken into account in dealing with urban phenomena has been drawn up to try to avoid urban centres. So, a fortiori, if you try to avoid the Brussels urban centres, you have to find other posts, located in the vicinity. In order to achieve the desired indicative ratio, i.e. 5 % of the deletable power relative to the consumption of the area concerned. [[...]] The regulatory indicator, towards which we must strive, is fully respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u91	I ask you to take the time to analyse it in detail so as not to have to change in 48 hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u92	To find out if I understood correctly, let us base ourselves on a period of fifteen days. On the first Monday, the release plan is applied in Zone 6 in the North, Zone 6A in the South. On Tuesdays, in Zone 5 in the North, in Zone 5A in the South, etc. The following week, the release plan was re-applied. On Mondays, in Zone 6 in the North and this time in Zone 6B in the South. Tuesdays, 5 and 5B. Which means that you have found a capacity of 600 megawatts compared to the foreground before us, so that you can take only a part of the South off.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u93	No, we haven't changed the cabins and the posts. No additional capacity was found. The slices have become a little smaller. Mr. Wathelet said it's about 500 megawatts. We were beyond 600 on the assumption that we're close to the tip and we're not clearing 10,000 megawatts but 13,000 megawatts. Now, the presentation we've made shows that we're still beyond the 500. So, we've got a little bit less by slice.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u94	So you took a lot of precautions at first, and now maybe we're taking a little risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u95	Once again, the list of posts was drawn up in the light of the problem of sudden phenomena. And so, these sudden phenomena do not necessarily occur in situations of shortage. They can intervene at any time. To establish this element, we have taken an average consumption. When you look at average consumption, it means that positions are loaded at a certain level. It is by taking from the beginning this average photo, if we add up the posts taken into account at the time of this average photo, that we can find that we have slices of more or less 100 megawatts. In situations of shortage, this means in situations of high consumption. A fortiori, each post included in the list of delestable posts is more responsible than it is in a normal situation. So, potentially, there is more discharge capacity in a post shortage situation than in a normal situation. We took advantage of this in order to be able to reduce the delestible slices in the south-east and south-west areas to better meet the criteria set out. I hope I have been relatively clear on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u96	I have one more question. Suppose there are about ten electricity suppliers in Belgium, if there is one that is not able to supply its customers, will the discharge plan be activated for everyone?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u97	Not yet! According to the information we receive, Elia informs the minister of the problem and the volume of capacity that we will miss. There are other measures, such as balancing market, for suppliers to find a solution between them. There is also demand management, there are campaigns to raise awareness and reduce electricity consumption. Before the discharge, there's a whole list of measurements.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u98	Will the public be aware of supplier capacity issues?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u99	We will do our analyses on the entire consumer and production market for import. Within this market, trade may take place between producers, between suppliers depending on surpluses or deficits. In terms of shortages, the whole physical situation of the system must be examined: available production, power plants, import capacity and expected consumption. And within this system, trade can take place until the very last moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u100	There's almost no one in the room and I don't want to hold Elia unnecessarily. I would therefore ask you to take the floor very briefly. We're not talking to a minister, we're not talking about replicas here.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u101	I would like us not to be here to prepare our citizens psychologically for the discharge. It should not be possible for relief, which I consider to be a dramatic situation, to become normal for the population. I've been delesting every day in Africa for several hours. I hope we don't come next winter to tell us here in committee that for the winter of 2015–16, we're going to improve what didn't work well during the 2014–15 discharge. This situation we are about to experience should be exceptional. I would like you to have with Elia and the other officials, like Electrabel, do what is necessary in terms of investments so that this situation does not happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u102	I do not agree with your analysis that, since there are no criteria, we can use the criteria we want. First, there are criteria in Chapter 5. And, beyond the criteria, there are general principles, including equality. A ministerial order may not derogate from it. I think it's a resort nest. Secondly, two situations have been identified which are problematic in terms of balance and feasibility, it is Ghent and it is the centre. I invite you to keep thinking about it. You said it would be up to the Secretary of State to decide. We'll question him next week. We also asked for documents: a document on the existing internal procedures, the document "J-7, J-1", to be clear, and a list of the investments that have been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u103	Mr Vandenberghe, I was very pleased with your final remark when you proposed looking at the switching plan, as I mentioned it. I started by saying that the dynamics that we are developing around the switch-off are great. I also understand this great dynamic from a political point of view. However, the dynamics that we are developing around the non-disabled should be at least the same. So I was very pleased with your closing sentence.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, on Tuesday afternoon we will hear from Electrabel and FEBEG as suppliers and then we will hear from CREG. It'll be a long afternoon!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u105	Mr President, I would like to thank you for giving me the floor once again. In my opinion, perhaps that was a misjudgement, my question from earlier was a perfect addition to Mrs Temmerman's question. I'll ask them again. It's a very simple question. To what extent does the switch-off plan take into account any economic damage?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u106	An initiative was taken in 2012 by the FPS Economy, Directorate-General for Energy. We have not been able to take this into account because we have been waiting for that study.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u107	Can't you estimate what a possible brown-out will cost our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u108	We can, of course, extrapolate the study of the Planning Bureau in a simple way on the plan, but that is an exercise which we really should not be doing and which any economic study firm can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u109	Allow me to call that disturbing.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u110	Tuesday afternoon, there will be no Secretary of State since it is Electrabel, FEBEG and the CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u111	Madam President, I agree with Mr Dierick that three hearings in one afternoon is a lot. Electrabel, CREG and Febeg together, I like a lot. The operator alone, Electrabel, must refer to Target 4, Target 3, Tihange 2...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u112	Very clearly, next week's debate, which should not be confused with the ongoing negotiations...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u113	No, I'm not talking about the negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u114	So next week's debate will focus on security of supply for this winter. This is not about the energy plan that we are told in the press and whose reality we do not know. Of course, Mr Calvo, we will also be talking about nuclear safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u115	I'm not talking about the future of Doel 1 and Doel 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u116	Let's avoid confusion. You want to bring in the Creg Wednesday afternoon?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u117	Can't we hear Electrabel in the morning and the Creg with the Febeg in the afternoon?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-18-54-commissie-ic006x.u118	You want in the morning and in the afternoon, right? In the morning Electrabel, in the afternoon others. The secretary tells me that the letters of invitation are already gone – that's what we decided on Tuesday.
