ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am pleased to see you able to ask you my question about the judgment of the Court of Justice which reached us the day before yesterday and on which the media reported in detail yesterday. They were talking about so-called benefit tourism, but they might have looked at the issue a little too broadly. After all, the media talked about all kinds of benefits paid to EU citizens coming from abroad to Belgium. They stated that the judgment meant that such a procedure could not be allowed to happen and that the citizens concerned could not come to Belgium simply because of the benefit. However, the analysis of the judgment shows that it is really only about social assistance. It concerns a case of social assistance in Germany. Nevertheless, I have a question for the Minister for Labour. Benefits tourism does not only occur in the field of social assistance but also in the context of unemployment regulation. You know, and this point has already been raised in this Chamber in the past, that an EU citizen can also come to Belgium to exercise the right to unemployment benefits. In fact, it is enough to have worked one day in Belgium together with a few similar days abroad. Such a provision also opens up the possibility of benefit tourism in unemployment regulation. Mr. Secretary of Labour, do you recognize the problem? Does it exist? Do you have any figures on the subject? How will you deal with that problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lachaert, it is true that the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 11 November 2014 has received a lot of media attention. Yesterday I had the opportunity to discuss this with the new European Commissioner for Work. I do not think there is any need to clarify the content of the judgment on the question of a Romanian lady in Leipzig. Your question is not about welfare benefits, but very specific about unemployment benefits. First, you asked about the number of cases, and I had that checked for you, of course. I can tell you that about 600 applications for unemployment benefit are submitted each month for which foreign periods are taken into account. The administration concludes from this that it is a relatively relative and limited phenomenon, viewed from the point of view of unemployment. As you said yourself, anyone wishing to benefit from unemployment benefit must have been active in Belgium for at least one day. I believe that we should now continue to follow that judgment. Together with my colleague, the Secretary of State responsible for social fraud, and other fellow Members, we will monitor this. At European level, too, we will consider how we can respond to this in an appropriate and alert way in Belgium, not only in the event that the European Court of Justice has given rise to its ruling, but in the whole of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I believe that the problem, as you correctly described, is not so marginal. After all, it concerns a few hundred applications per month. We must therefore look carefully at this. You will understand that it is sometimes hard for those who have worked for a long time in our country and pay contributions for unemployment insurance when they find that someone who has only worked one day in Belgium can receive the same benefit. I believe that the problem of benefit tourism, including the Secretary of State for Combating Social Fraud, should be addressed in order to maintain the social system in a fair way.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u5	Although Mr Lachaert has already stirred up a lot during the inquiry debate at the bank, I would nevertheless like to congratulate him on his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u6	Mr President, Minister, the Swedish car manufacturer Volvo Trucks fears 3 000 jobs. You also know that there is a car factory in Ghent where 2 200 people are employed and in Vilvoorde there are 1 200 people employed. So it's about 6 500 jobs in our country together. Minister, when these people read such reports in the newspaper, they are concerned and I understand that concern very well. That's why I want to make a call today. I'd like to call you to roll up your sleeves, not to sit down with the suits, to contact that company and to take that signal seriously. After all, you understand that where there is smoke, there is fire. If the workers want one thing now, it is clear; they want to know whether they can keep their job or not. That is why, Minister, I would like to hear from you what initiatives you have taken so far since these jobs were threatened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Kitir, unfortunately, that message also reached the newspapers. As you say, we must deal with this very carefully. I have had contacts with Volvo Trucks in the past and in response to this news I will contact you again to see how this file develops. Of course, removing 3 000 jobs worldwide is not self-evident. I hope that we will not be the victims of this restructuring. The FPS Employment, Labour and Social Dialogue has not received any official file at this time. Volvo Trucks' management has informed us that there is no concrete restructuring plan in place to discharge employees in Belgium. You, like me, are well aware of the motor vehicle industry and you know that such messages must always be handled with caution and briefly played on the ball. I will therefore briefly make the necessary contacts to get more text and explanation on how they will deal with this. I assume that we will not be strongly endorsed in the context of this restructuring and the 3 000 jobs that are in danger of being lost.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am pleased that you will take the necessary initiatives to ensure that the jobs are preserved in Belgium. However, this is not just a story of wage costs, Minister. If you want to defend the jobs in Belgium, you should also take with you that Belgian employees, especially in the automotive sector, always come out of class as the best students, especially when it comes to quality and flexibility. I hope that you take this matter seriously and that you choose preventive measures rather than cure them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u9	Minister, you are responsible for consumer protection in the new government. Consumer protection is very important. After all, it is important that people know what they are buying and that manufacturers and suppliers fulfil their obligations. However, we must be careful to ensure that the regulations in this area remain adequate. The question is: is the purpose, the protection of the customer, actually achieved? In the financial sector, Twin Peaks II has led to an enormous increase in the administrative burden on intermediaries. It has now come to the point that brokers and insurance agents are beginning to refuse certain policies because they are no longer profitable for them. In the current state of affairs, a broker has to meet so many formal obligations that he doesn't have time to focus on his core task, namely to provide advice and service to his customers. Who will be the victim of this, Minister? This is in the first place Jan Modaal, who does not have a large villa, who does not have a heavy car with omnium insurance, who rents a small apartment and needs family insurance and a modest fire policy. He'll be the first to get in trouble to find a suitable policy, if he can. Secondly, the broker himself is the victim. Usually it's a small entrepreneur who employs a few people, but certainly not a mass, and who just can't handle the workload anymore. The worst thing about the story is that all additional administrative burdens offer very little added value for the customer. The customer is sent home in packs of paper, but does not usually read it. This is just one example of a possible back-up. I would like to ask you when you will review the current regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Klaps, I will also take into account consumer issues if you have any doubts. The issue of administrative obligations for banking and insurance firms is a very important one. You put the finger on the... wound. I was just looking to find where you could put your finger anywhere, but I'm sure you can do that on the wound. The previous government adopted the Law of 30 July 2013 imposing a number of additional obligations. I have already consulted with Assuralia and the professional insurance intermediary association. It is clear that we must look for a level playing field, including as regards administrative obligations. A new Directive setting out information obligations on insurance products is being developed at European level. Also in the context of the implementation of the government agreement, we will continue to work on a level playing field on administrative obligations and the proportionate completion of the data, so that it is not more than necessary, but only what is important to deal with things properly. The Government will therefore amend the Law of 30 July 2013 to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer. I am glad that you are listening to the concerns of the sector in this matter and that you want to adjust where necessary. It is very important for consumers to be effectively protected. We cannot always preach administrative simplification and then impose this kind of obligation which, I repeat, brings little added value to the debt. I hope that we will all try to avoid this kind of modest policy for modest houses becoming a lot more expensive. We will soon have to set up a fund because people will no longer be able to get such policies, not because they caused twenty car accidents, but simply because they have a modest home.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u12	I congratulate Mr Klaps on his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u13	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the demonstration on 6 November was the scene of serious incidents. Property damage was caused, but mainly 112 police officers were injured. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the police officers for their commitment, but also to express our solidarity with the injured officers and wish them a speedy recovery. I would also like to draw a distinction between the minority of demonstrators who caused the above-mentioned incidents and the 120,000 people who demonstrated. I trust justice to determine who is responsible for these disturbances and to enforce the law. I turn to the issue of policing management during this demonstration. We know that the law is particularly clear. Mr Minister of the Interior, given our experience as a mayor, we know the text that allocates responsibilities in the event of the maintenance of order. The mayor, a political and administrative authority, has a general responsibility for the determination of the general security policy and the maintenance of law and order as well as for the deployment of sufficient resources in the event of a demonstration, which was apparently sufficient on 6 November last. However, he is not operationally responsible for the choices made during the event. He can simply give one or the other indication of an initiative that he would find unfortunate. Before asking my question, I would like to read out a text quickly: "The Chief of Staff has the autonomous decision-making power necessary for the practical execution of orders, instructions and directives. The fact that he is not a judge of the administrative order does not deprive him of the required autonomous decision-making power which is in accordance with the principles of good administration and the mandate regime." Your predecessor, Mr. Minister of the Interior, Mr. Duquesne, has confirmed this text. Mr Minister of the Interior, can you confirm in this context the interpretation I have just given? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u14	Minister, I am pleased that Mr Demeyer, on behalf of the PS, has at last, after more than a week, expressed his solidarity and sympathy today with the more than 112 injured agents who suffered brutal violence following the event last week. That is much better than the Brussels mayor of the PS has done in the past week: he did not get those words across his lips. At every demonstration there are provocateurs, at every demonstration there are infiltrators, Mr Jambon, at every demonstration there are hooligans. I've been through a few, along with you, wherever that was. At every demonstration, there are also people who behave irresponsiblely. In this case, worse than the demonstrators themselves, it is precisely the one responsible for law enforcement, in particular the PS mayor of Brussels, Mr Mayeur. Mr Mayeur is a political hooligan because he, instead of sitting in the command center, stood aside to observe the honours of the protesters on behalf of his party. Afterwards, he has never shown any sympathy for the victims who have fallen in the police. In addition, in the consigns in advance, he made it clear that his testimonies about the need for the demonstrators to be treated with the highest tolerance threshold, with all the incidents that eventually occurred afterwards. You said there'd be an investigation. I think more needs to be done. Indeed, under PS mayor Mayeur, there is a guilty omission. He has failed to carry out his task in a good, sound manner. Sanctions must therefore be imposed, Minister. I am counting on you, so that you will act honestly and firmly and not fail to do what needs to be done: call upon the chief culprit for the incidents, the PS mayor of Brussels, and, if necessary, severely restrain him and punish him.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u15	Mr President, Minister, I would like to join Mr Demeyer's statements in expressing our solidarity with the members of the police forces who were victims of the aggression, not hooligans, but people who took advantage of their presence in Brussels to show their hostility towards this city. Moreover, I have no doubt that the Antwerp dockers will behave differently when they demonstrate in their city. The first responsibility may therefore be to point out among these troublemakers and probably not among those who had to assume the responsibility of maintaining order in the circumstances. More fundamentally, with regard to this law enforcement operation, we were all impressed by these images of police cordons forced to retreat from the violence against them. The question therefore arises as to whether the very concept of policing, which is no longer based on specialized police forces, can still be assumed by police divisions or police areas that are not specially prepared for this mission. Let us not hide it: it is not the primary purpose of any police zone in the country to assume this task of maintaining law and order. With the well-known exception of the Brussels-Ixelles police force, of which it is true that it has staff to carry out such missions, the other police divisions do not have this speciality in their traditions, for many reasons, with the possible exception of a few large cities. Knowing how the general reserve that supported the supervision of the major events was reconstituted is a question that deserves to be asked. I shall therefore ask you two specific questions. First, what was the number of federal police officers mobilized for this demonstration? Have all the staff requested by the Brussels-Ixelles Police Chief of Police, via the Administrative Police Co-ordinator, been sent? Secondly - we are in the capital of Europe - what is the number of the Federal Reserve available at any time to deal with any serious incident that would occur? At this time, what is the number of personnel available to the Ministry of the Interior to deal with any event of a certain gravity?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u16	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have all been marked – in any case, I dare hope – by these totally unacceptable spillovers and violence by some of the more than 100,000 peaceful demonstrators. However, this is not the first time that dockers or other breakers have come to attack the city of Brussels. Troublemakers must be punished very firmly. As other colleagues have done, we must support the wounded, whether they are policemen or demonstrators, but we must now learn some lessons from what happened during the November 6 demonstration, just a week ago. Minister, was safety management assessed at the event? Were the reinforcements sufficient? Did they arrive in time? I wasn't at the demonstration, but the images showing these policemen in hindsight against the breakers were extremely intriguing. Has the Federal Reserve been mobilized? Was it sufficient and on time at the scene? Finally, has this event been sufficiently anticipated? We knew that there would be more than 100,000 people in the city of Brussels. We knew there was a risk of infiltrated breakers, since they had already come. Mr Minister, is it not time to put in place a structural reform that would allow us, in collaboration with the federal police, the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police and the Antwerp police, to anticipate and locate these dockers to ensure that they will not be present or infiltrate peaceful demonstrators? This would avoid unacceptable spillovers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u17	Mr President, Minister, at last Thursday's demonstration, more than a hundred thousand demonstrators went through the streets of Brussels to express their displeasure. We understand that action, but the violence associated with it overshadowed the action. Dozens of hotheads felt it necessary to set fire to different vehicles and other things. We have heard that there would have been some suspension of the orders given by the mayor of Brussels. We have also heard that during the demonstration on the Gaza conflict cases had already taken place with auxiliary agents, where the perpetrators were difficult to identify. Furthermore, we have received signals that when such matters happen, the members of the Railway Police have a place where they can hide until, as it were, reinforcements arrive. I personally think it is important to know how many people have been arrested. How much did the action cost? More importantly, we've been talking to the unions and the cops. What have we learned from this and what can we already use of it for the next actions? There are no immediate talks about demonstrations, but strikes are taking place in the different provinces. After all, we must be sure that the safety of those who take part in the actions is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u18	Minister, if there is one case that continues to reminisce, it is certainly last week's demonstration of destruction and violence against policemen. Violence against policemen is totally unacceptable to us as N-VA. The events have provoked a lot of reactions. There's the open letter to the mayor of Brussels because of his police officers. There is the criminal charge of the police union Sypol, officially against strangers but in fact against the mayor of Brussels. There were reactions from several police unions. They are talking, among other things, about the number of men deployed. 726 were used for this demonstration, while for other major demonstrations in Brussels it sometimes amounted to 1 600 men. Several policemen involved testified how reinforcement was refused, which makes them doubt the ability of the person responsible for managing the demonstration. Press photographers also expressed their surprise at the events and felt that the necessary orders had not been given. Mr Minister, of course we are now asking for an investigation. I understand you're in the middle of a thorough and serious investigation. Can you tell us the progress of that investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Minister for the Interior and Security, I was particularly shocked and shocked when I heard the heavy toll of the 6 November event. As with all major events, I was kept informed of the progress of the events at the event by the Crisis Centre. There were 112 wounded police officers in an action by administrative police. That is unacceptable. In fact, I'd say one wounded is one too many. I wish once again to express my deep respect and support for the police officers who have given the best of themselves in extremely difficult circumstances. To the wounded, I wish you all the best. Colleagues, 112 injured is not only unacceptable, it is not normal either. I am well aware of the indignation and displeasure that exists. I believe that this is also justified. I would therefore like to see how this can be avoided in the future. I intend to do this in full transparency, in accordance with the rules and with the necessary serenity. At the same time, all this must be done quickly so that a result can be achieved together with all the partners involved, including the social partners. At present, the BOCs, the basic consultative committees, of the various zones concerned are meeting. The BOC of the federal police will also come together. An overall evaluation will take place tomorrow at the Crisis Centre. The federal police, my staff, the local police of the various entities and also Antwerp are involved. The city of Antwerp will be present in preparation for the event on 24 November. Next Wednesday, 18 November, the Higher Consultation Committee will take place in which all the elements will be brought together. The necessary conclusions will be drawn at that meeting on what has gone wrong and where the responsibilities lie. We will then be able to take the necessary actions and, if necessary, adjust them. As far as the role of the mayor of Brussels is concerned, as I have just said, I propose to wait for the results of the basic consultation committees, Friday's operational debriefing and the results of the high-level consultation committees. I can also tell you that ten administrative arrests and two judicial arrests were made on the day itself, but this number may increase as the investigation progresses. Some members have asked about the cost. That day 831 policemen, 1 helicopter, 5 spray trucks, 6 sections cavalry and all kinds of equipment were deployed. In addition, during the incidents, 40 policemen from Antwerp were called up, who could be deployed immediately. In addition, of course, there are also direct and indirect costs due to incapacity for work, repair of equipment and so on. At the same time, on that day, there was also a strike by the prison guards, for which a capacity of 500 policemen was claimed, so I have to say that the available police capacity was completely exhausted at that time. As for Mr Maingain's specific questions, I do not have the information here. I'll send him the exact figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u20	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. I would like to confirm before this House that, on Thursday, the mayor of Brussels has expressed his solidarity with the injured policemen. On Friday, he wrote to each of them and the Brussels Municipal College took civil action in the criminal case, which I hope will lead to the required convictions. Minister, since we were talking about hooligans, I would like to suggest that you work with the football law from now on. This law makes us interested not only in the place where things are going to happen but also in the place where hooligans leave to ensure that if they are in a bad state of mind, and sometimes already in a state of drunkenness, they may not be allowed to leave. It's a lead to follow. Finally, I trust the meetings and the possible administrative investigation to demonstrate – I hope for the police and I am sure for the mayor – that things have been done in the rules of art and in respect of the prerogatives and responsibilities of each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u21	Mr President, Minister, I am not impressed by the crocodile tears of the Parti Socialist. It's repentance after sin. That's how we know that party. Unfortunately, it is no different in this dossier. Those tears don't send 911 wounded cops a message at all. They had a message to a firm, solid and well-organized leadership. There was no such thing, so sanctions must be imposed. Mr Minister, I would like to make one more point. One element in the whole debate has not been addressed, in particular the fact that one responsible person has not yet been mentioned, namely the trade unions themselves. They have organized the event and must also guarantee a proper and well-organised order service themselves. Maybe there's a solution to that. After all, they avoid their responsibilities as they always do. Give legal personality to the trade unions. Ensure that they also have to justify themselves technically and legally when they organise such events, which to date has not been and never has been the case. Maybe that can finally happen to this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have taken note of the fact that my proposal to continue the debate on this matter is referred back to the Committee on the Interior, and that we may be able to hold hearings there from the various parties concerned. I'll come back with my concern. I'll take a look at your numbers. But what I know, subject to verification, is that on the day of the demonstration, the mobilization of the Brussels police areas corresponded to the equivalent of more or less ten platoons: five platoons for Brussels-Ixelles, five platoons for Brussels police areas. A platoon is 30 men or women in these police areas. This means more or less 300 personnel coming from Brussels police areas. There were reinforcements during the day also coming from Brussels areas. Coming from the federal government, and you have just said what happened in particular because of the prison strike, there was a platoon formed by the railway police – of which it cannot be said that it is the first mission to maintain law and order, they are no more prepared than others for this kind of mission. The Brussels General Reserve was able to send two sections; it was 18 staff members. After that, 65 came from the general reserve of the rest of the country. So, less than 100 members of the federal police came in reinforcement on the day of the demonstration. I'm asking you to check the numbers. If that is the case, you will see the whole problem of maintaining law and order in the capital of Europe when a demonstration takes place almost daily.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers. Pending the investigation, one word must be retained: anticipation. Other events will take place in the coming weeks, they have been announced. The anticipation is about two realities for me. On the one hand, the coordination of the police forces involved. We talked about the federal reserve. When other police areas are called, they must be trained for this purpose and adequately equipped so that it is not an impossible mission. On the other hand, there is anticipation aimed at preventing, for example, the dockers of Antwerp, but also other possible breakers, from arriving at the place of the demonstration. The judicial investigation unit, created precisely to identify the breakers with the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, must be fully activated, in conjunction with the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police, the Antwerp police and the federal police to prevent these breakers from arriving and setting fire to the city of Brussels or, tomorrow, to other cities, where peaceful demonstrations will take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u24	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your clear answer, which shows that you will take action to avoid what happened in Brussels in the future. I would ask you once again to look at what happened during the demonstration on the Gaza conflict, to keep in mind what the Railway Police are doing and not just to look at Antwerp on 24 November. There will also be actions in other provinces, which are equally important for CD&V, where the necessary security measures will also have to be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u25	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I note that the investigation is ongoing and I hope, as you say, that it will be completed as soon as possible. We can learn a great deal from this, so that future events would be much less chaotic. Minister, I have every confidence that you will conduct that investigation objectively, while respecting everyone's rights. That is very important. I don't want to remember a quote I read in De Standaard: Mayor Mayeur said, among other things, that those who were disturbed by his approach should look for another police area. Such a quote bothers me. Ik zou zeggen: If that's true, then for me, it's a major mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u26	Mr President, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at this very moment, this government is campaigning to ask the inhabitants of our country to eat mainly one-pan dishes this winter and to postpone an evening ironing or showering. Unfortunately, our citizens and businesses cannot be sure of the supply of electricity, of security of supply. How could it have come to this? Now, our old nuclear power stations are dropping. In Objective 4, it is apparently easy to enter and commit a sabotage act. Objective 3 and Tihange 2 are crack reactors and these problems have been on the agenda for the plenary for two and a half years. There are eight thousand cracks in the target 3 reactor vessel and two thousand in Tihange 2. Yesterday, Mr Jambon, our group, in your capacity as a new minister of nuclear safety, asked you about the perhaps one hundredth question in the Committee on the Interior. You replied that your department, the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control, is still in the process of research and that we do not yet know what is going on, but that next week we would know whether or not the old nuclear power stations will be restarted. That is why we were surprised to read today that GDF Suez, the operator of these plants, is already saying it, because those plants are opening up again, the restart is imminent. Our surprise was great, although, just last weekend in mind, it is understandable that GDF Suez gets wings. In fact, the Minister for Energy said that the nuclear exit was in the government agreement in 2025, but it might not be implemented, that nuclear interest would be reduced and that the opening period of Objectives 1 and 2 would be extended. That was the message from the Energy Minister last weekend. Mr Minister, I have questions about this, because the statement by GDF Suez is in fact contrary to what you said yesterday. Who is in charge in this country, you, the government or GDF Suez? What is the state of the investigation? Are those results available? Can Parliament have these results? That is a very important question. What is your reaction to the very crisp statements that were made this morning? You are the Minister of Nuclear Safety. Well, please make things clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Calvo, we are all aware of the problem of shutting down Objective 3 and Tihange 2, and I will answer your questions very specifically. What is the future of Target 3 and Tihange 2? The future of both reactors is in the hands of the FANC, no more and no less. As the FANC decided on the restart in 2013, this will also be the case with this possible restart. The FANC's task is to ensure nuclear safety and to assess whether the operator's file is sufficiently substantiated to justify a restart. The FANC currently has questions about the tests carried out by Electrabel and it has yet to comment on the methodology followed by Electrabel. In other words, there are still a lot of stages to go through in the FANC's investigation before there can be a reboot. The FANC should therefore handle this dossier in complete serenity and independence. In connection with the reaction and communication of GDF Suez: this was done following the presentation of the annual results. I have just outlined the work ahead of the FANC to get a yes or no on a restart. So I can quite rightly say that GDF Suez's communication was at least premature and is not currently based on the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u28	Mr Jambon, you are talking about premature communication, but for the Ecolo Green Group it is unacceptable communication. You're giving the papers in the field of nuclear safety and the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control is calling the shots, not GDF Suez. The security of our inhabitants is decided in Brussels, not Paris. That must be clear and you do not have the opportunity to clarify it. Mr Jambon, these reactors have been under investigation for two and a half years and many international experts have doubts. If there is any doubt about the safety of these nuclear reactors, they must be closed. The interests of the shareholders of GDF Suez are subordinate to the millions of people living around Doel and Tihange. I hope that this will also be your attitude as Minister for Nuclear Safety. It will be an important week and you must not miss your start in this respect. You must certainly read the reports of the past few years and then the choice has been made quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u29	Minister, according to annual tradition, Foster Care celebrates Flanders, the former Foster Care Federation, the Week of Foster Care. As of tomorrow, foster care will be in the spotlight again. Minister, since 2006 we have been working on a proposal on foster care, which has been updated since certain powers have been transferred to the Communities. This proposal lays down a statute for foster care and we are pleased that the N-VA has also supported it. If I have understood correctly, it is mainly a search for a rapprochement of adoption and foster care. It is true that the law on adoption and the law on foster homes has been going through a whole process of evolution. Adoption used to mean that a child was recorded in a new family and that the roots were broken up, while the trend now is to look up those roots to give them a place. For foster families, the main goal was for a child to be temporarily taken out of his family and taken into a new family context, and then to return to his natural parents. That is a very specific situation. Now the trend is also long-term foster home placement. The foster parents have long been asking for more certainty about their status, which we want to take care of, but to be tailored to foster care. This should give the foster family the right to solve everyday practical problems. Just think of the application of a kids ID, which now requires the consent of the parents. There should also be a right of blockade in the case of long-term foster home placement, so that children cannot be taken away. In fact, there has been a scheme for foster care leave since September. The coalition agreement contains a passage on foster care. How will you put the proposal into practice? Can that be achieved quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u30	Foster families play an important role in society today. It goes without saying that the day-to-day responsibility of the foster parents for the child must be arranged in a manner which is almost tailor-made to each foster child individually. After all, every foster care situation is different in nature and duration. Tailor-made work is therefore in place. You are right to say that there is obviously a difference between adoption and adoption. In a foster family situation, parents still have to retain primary responsibility for education, as is also enshrined in the Convention on Children's Rights. In the first place, children must still be raised by their parents in a foster family situation. That is a difficult combination, and that is why the government agreement stipulates that we should develop the status of foster parents. I will talk about this in my policy statement next week. In any case, we will have to consult the Communities on this, because part of the competence for the organization and supervision of foster care belongs to the Communities. We will have to work out that legal status federally in consultation with the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u31	I thank the Minister for his reply. We assume that consultations with the Communities will be conducted in a good way. We also assume that the drafting of a statute can also be done in good consultation with Parliament, with the organisations of the foster parents themselves and with the representation of parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u32	Mr President, Minister, I have little pleasure in standing here today. In the meantime, the report of the follow-up committee, which is well known to you, is three years old. There have undoubtedly been enormous efforts, both by the Justice and the Church. That can also be said and underlined. It is a pity, however, that we are faced with new facts today. Minister, the work of the committee has shown that preventive and disciplinary measures are very important and that they prevent new victims. I understand that to take disciplinary measures, one cannot rely on rumors and gossip. We need hard facts for this and we need to know what we are talking about. In the meantime, the legislation has been adapted and there is the possibility of obtaining access to a criminal record, including for disciplinary authorities. In the dossier that concerns us today, we notice that the Church has waited over a year to take preventive measures again, while it had committed itself to proactive action in the future in committee. What worries me is the statement by the spokesperson of the diocese that the diocese would have contacted the parish twice in order to take preventive measures. However, the parquet would have let the diocese know not to do anything and wait. Mr. Secretary, the ball is being bounced back to you. Is it true that the Justice Department is standing in the way of preventive measures? I have already indicated that it is necessary to have access to an ongoing criminal record in order to be able to take preventive action. Knowledge of facts, not just rumors, is important. Is there an instruction to allow disciplinary authorities who have submitted themselves to an injured or bourgeois party in general to have access to the criminal record so that preventive action can be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u33	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, like you, I am concerned about these facts that date back to 2002. At the diocese of Bruges, these facts were not reported by the victim until 2013. Bruges' parquet forwarded the case to Kortrijk's parquet. The notification system has therefore worked well in this respect. Justice, as you know, has many facets and rooms. I can only ask myself at the appropriate court. They have informed me that the only written communication with the diocese dealt with the victim, in particular with the notification that the investigation is ongoing and that the parties will be informed of the further handling. We then asked the court whether instructions were given to the diocese to leave the case blue for the time being and refuse access. The prosecutor assures me that this has not happened in any way. Therefore, I cannot answer that question other than that the court has not given negative instructions to leave the case blue or to refuse access rights. You have asked me for an instruction to the prosecutors to ensure that the right of access is exercised smoothly when a disciplinary inquiry is initiated by a diocese. I didn't expect to answer that question. I have no knowledge of such instruction, but I will ask myself. At the moment, I have no indication that the public prosecutors would be difficult to find out about the right of access, which is evident today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u34	Mr President, Minister, we share the same view on one point, namely that sexual abuse has absolutely no place in our society and that it must be combated at all times. I am somewhat reassured by your reply that no instruction was given to refrain from disciplinary action. This proves once again the usefulness and efforts of the follow-up committee, which we will undoubtedly have to continue. The hearings are scheduled. We will also question the diocese and those involved. Minister, you are at the beginning of a parliamentary term. It may be necessary to check whether the right of access is going smoothly so that preventive action can be taken in cases of sexual abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u35	Mr President, Minister, I wonder about the government's fraud policy. On the one hand, we have the LuxLeaks case, which concerns billions of euros and for which the Belgian Government does not intend to do anything, saying that there is already a transparency tax and that this is enough. On the other hand, a Secretary of State decides to investigate alleged frauds in social benefits, the unemployed, by collecting their bills of water, gas and electricity to determine whether they do not fraud in the composition of the household. Moreover, this Secretary of State is responsible for respecting the privacy of our citizens. I'm still wondering. It can be seen that, when it comes to the lifting of bank secrecy in Belgium, there is a whole series of very cumbersome privacy procedures. But, when it comes to the unemployed, apparently, privacy does not matter. Why is the government shooting bazooka at so-called small social fraud and using a cork gun to fight big tax fraud? I'm asking you the question. Would it not be better to check Albert Frère's private jet tank rather than the unemployed's electric meter? That being said, in a more general context, Mr.Minister, we realize that, in the end, the whole government's policy is a policy that is very favourable to big capital; index jumps, deductions from employer charges are granted. On the other hand, this is a very unfavourable policy for all workers, including those social welfare recipients who are being hunted out of measure, I believe. Minister, why this difference in fraud? Like the President of the European Commission, would you be a friend of great capital?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u36	Mr Van Hees, thank you for your question. First of all, I would like to point out that the government has recorded fairly modest amounts of tax fraud and social fraud, not because it does not want to fight this fraud, but because of realism about income. The debate on fraud is very essential, because it concerns the basis of the rule of law, in which everyone has rights but also obligations. In this context, it is, of course, the duty of the public authorities to address all those who have to contribute. At the same time, the government must also ensure that those who receive amounts from the government receive their amounts in a lawful manner. It's a knife that cuts both ways. The government wants to tackle both tax fraud and social fraud, of course in priority the larger organised fraud, which certainly exists in the area of social fraud. However, the government wants to go a step further in the area of tax fraud. The government wants to tackle what, strictly speaking, is not fraud, i.e. what is being built in a specific way or in a particular way. We also want to address matters which are not strictly fraud, but which can be asked for reasons of fairness. Our viewing tax or caiman tax is aimed at tackling just those structures that are not strictly fraudulent, on the basis of fairness grounds. So we want to tackle both tax and social fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u37	Mr President, Mr Minister, I can hear you well, but I see that the same return is set for tax fraud and social fraud, when we are well aware that tax fraud in Belgium amounts to EUR 20 billion, while social fraud amounts to a much lower amount. I also note that if we look at the LuxLeaks case, in terms of ruling, Belgium does not have to teach Luxembourg a lesson. In fact, the text of the government agreement provides for a further extension of the ruling on which colleagues will be questioning you earlier. In my view, extending the ruling is a problem. Rather, we should consider reducing it. That said, you want to restrict the anti-abuse law, control the controllers. In addition, we know that you will reduce the staff of the FPS Finances. In doing so, minister, apart from the fact that the government is a friend of great capital, is it not a friend of the great fraudsters?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u38	Mr President, Minister, last week there was Luxleaks. Twenty-six Belgian companies and families, including the Spoelberch family, were involved in a huge scandal, in particular the avoidance of taxes through legislation in Luxembourg. This week there's Beloleaks. The Spoelberch family is the largest shareholder of AB InBev. AB InBev has made a deal with the Department of Prior Decisions to pay only 4 % taxes on the profit made. Knowing that there was a profit of EUR 140 million, not a small beer, and that then EUR 5.5 million were taxed, you will notice that these are shots, Mr Beke. The population is moaning under an enormous tax burden on the labour it carries out day after day, while the federal majority is pursuing an increasingly suffocating policy day after day. Now there was AB InBev and in 2011 there was the company Total, which also received a ruling from the Prior Decision Service. For the people at home: that is actually no more or less than an arrangement in backrooms for large multinationals to pay less taxes, something that an ordinary taxpayer cannot do. Total sneaked the profits to the Bermuda Islands. In 2004 there was Interbrew, the predecessor of AB InBev. Then my predecessor, Vera Dua, asked how it was possible that such things could be made available in all mystery. The then Finance Minister made the current legislation in 2004. Mr Reynders' legislation is under attack today. You will have questions from European Commissioner Almunia about these deals. After all, these deals are very unfair and allow for what you accused Luxembourg last week, in particular the organisation of fiscal competition. My questions are simple. What will you do to increase the transparency of tax deals that are made in backrooms? What will you do with this example of AB InBev? How strongly will you take action against tax competition, particularly in Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u39	Mr President, Minister, it is a good thing that we can again talk today about fair taxation. After all, the coalition agreement has twice stated that the strongest shoulders must bear the heaviest burdens. Last week we took what is happening in Luxembourg as a criterion and asked ourselves whether it is fair. We must look through the same glasses at what is happening in our country. When certain constructions come to light, we must dare to ask whether they are just and why they are, why the administration authorizes certain constructions. Mr Secretary, why is this happening? Is that financially interesting for our country? Isn't that legal to avoid? Does it mean anything economic? Is it about jobs? Last week it was said that something like Belgiumleaks cannot happen, because we publish neatly and explain online what exactly is agreed with the administration. Well, apparently, there is a lack of supervision, transparency, because it is now revealing facts in which the citizen who wants to anticipate, who wants to understand the legislation, had no access to the possibilities offered by the committee in this area. I therefore wonder whether the lack of transparency is in line with the OECD guidelines on this matter. It is also important to assess the Belgian position at EU level. I said last week that it is important to include this issue on the agenda at European level. It would be ridiculous to tax each other for the devil and to compete fiscally with each other in neighbouring countries. Mr President, we have parliamentary advisory committees for everything, such as the P Committee for Police and the I Committee for Intelligence. I believe that it is urgent for a committee F to take a critical look at the autonomy of the ruling committee. CD&V has already launched this proposal and I think it is very important for the legislator to understand what is happening in reality, to learn lessons from it and, where necessary, to change the legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u40	Mrs Almaci, Mr Deseyn, thank you for your questions. I'll take the liberty of summing it up in five points. Firstly, as regards AB InBev, the 2004 amendment provides for the possibility for each taxable person to rely on OECD rules on possible double taxation. That's what's in store here. The ruling committee has taken a decision, which apparently goes in such a way that the BBI contests it in a rule of law. We will have to wait and see how the matter is finally settled. I can only point out that many Western countries follow this OECD regulation. Secondly, for the impact of rulings, Mr Deseyn, I have asked the responsible services, but there are no systematic statistics on the impact of rulings on our economy and on our taxable basis. I asked for those statistics to be compiled as far as possible. I will, of course, give it to you as well. Third, as regards the monitoring of the ruling committee and its decisions, the decisions are transparent and can be consulted free of charge on the website of the ruling committee. In a number of cases, the questions raised by the ruling committee to the companies concerned are so profound that the commercial strategy and organisation of companies should be almost or completely exposed. This must therefore be handled with caution. I also refer to the issue of professional secrecy in the administration. Fourthly, as regards the transparency of the ruling service in an international context, it goes without saying that we will do all we can to further increase it. I would also like to point out that, just today, at my request, the administration asked Luxembourg very explicitly in order to have access to all the non-leaked Luxembourg rulings with taxable persons. Fifthly, within the European Commission and within the OECD, we will continue to work loyally with the other countries concerned to further promote initiatives to strengthen international tax treaties and to combat international tax avoidance. Two weeks ago, I signed the famous BEPS agreement on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting in Berlin with 46 other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u41	Mr President, Minister, I do not understand it anymore. Last week you were very clear and firm about Luxleaks and about the lack of transparency. This week you say about the lack of transparency in the own ruling service that I have to understand that the lack of transparency is due to professional secrecy. You could also simply ask questions with the ruling service an sich and the fact that that service results in cases such as the Beloleaks of AB InBev. It is very strange that what you want to impose on Luxembourg, namely transparency in this area, should also be provided to Parliament, because we also have the right to impose all the information that is not yet known on the matters we are dealing with. This actually indicates that you want to organise fiscal competition with your country. Above all, however, you do not believe that the other European Member States should do the same. We really need such schizophrenia as a pain in the tooth. Moreover, it is at European level that you are also playing doubles. After all, one day after Luxleaks in Europe, we discussed the Parent-Subsidiary Directive, which the Netherlands is opposed to. It concerns the directive on double taxation. There is a clause for this, in particular an anti-abuse clause in the directive. The Netherlands is against that clause. Belgium and the United Kingdom have been behind the Netherlands. So you are playing the game of deception and of divide and rule, which you are also playing with the citizens. The multinationals will continue to pay low taxes, while ordinary citizens and the ordinary self-employed and SMEs will continue to moan under the tax burden you impose on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u42	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Something can certainly be done about fair taxation and certainly also about transparency, possibly by anonymizing certain data. CD&V is not so crazy about taxes, but we are very sensitive to a fair distribution of charges. Indeed, this government is calling for an effort on the part of the employees and also on the small self-employed and SMEs, who are already de facto subject to an added value tax on their business assets. It would therefore be particularly unacceptable not to ask for a fair contribution to those who organise themselves well or to those who only cash out. Minister, that would not be in accordance with the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u43	Mr President, Minister, earlier, our esteemed colleague from the PTB, Mr. Van Hees, asked you if you were a friend of great capital. Very modestly, with great humility, as a liberal, I will ask you if you are a friend of small capital, small venture capital, crowdfunding. If I allow myself to intervene on topical issues, it is because this week your press officer referred to your intentions on crowdfunding. To put the context in perspective, it is not a novelty, it can even be said that this system is very old, since participatory lending, the call for participatory funds, is already centuries old. But it has experienced – perhaps that's what it's called overseas – a real boom in recent years with technological developments, notably thanks to the Internet platforms that have put forward this new participatory financing formula. The previous government had already taken very interesting steps, which were in the right direction and which allowed, in an innovative way, to try the experiment by allowing a call for funds in a simplified way without having to go through a prospectus below 300 000 euros and while trying to protect the investor, namely the individual. Very often, this ceiling is limited to EUR 1,000. Unfortunately, after some time of experience, the results are not very conclusive. You can even say it's a real failure. If neighbours like France, the Netherlands and England have launched this technology with a little more success, we find that in Belgium we are almost 65 times lower in types of fund-raising than in France. Minister, my question is how you understand this new technology. Are you going to allow tax incentives, the deductibility that would allow more people to use this investment? In a few days, the KB will embark on the experiment to structure this call for funds. Have you, Minister, made contact with the banking world and have you had contact with other banks? As far as tax relief is concerned, do you imagine deductibility? Do you already have programming and on what tempo?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u44	Mr President, crowdfunding - financing by the general public - consists of raising funds from the public, often via the Internet, in order to finance a specific project. The government wants to use this carefully, for the simple reason that there is certainly a need for additional economic activity and, above all, for creative financing of this additional economic activity. To the extent that a relatively new technique such as crowdfunding can contribute to this, we certainly want to encourage this. At the same time, you referred to the law of April 2014 and, of course, it is also a matter of balancing, of protecting the small saver, because it is smaller amounts from possibly smaller savers and smaller investors. That is the balance that I want to make very carefully. I absolutely do not want to go over a night of ice. On the one hand, attracting funds in this way to finance projects is very welcome, but at the same time I would like to remain very cautious so that the necessary insurance mechanisms or security mechanisms are built in to prevent abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answer. I also draw your attention to the fact that while this mechanism is of interest to SMEs, spin-offs and start-ups, it is also of interest to artists. Some have been able to finance themselves through this mechanism. We are sensitive to this method of financing, which very often complements, in a more simplified way, the tax shelter. We thank you for integrating this aspect into your thinking.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u46	Mr President, I must confess that I am somewhat hesitant here when our country is building its foundations with the proposal of the majority to transform the province of Antwerp into the province of Central Brabant. I am reassured now that I have read that the Governor of Antwerp has said: "Antwerp remains Antwerp." Now I feel a little easier to ask my question. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u47	Of course. Welcome to Limburg, I'd say. Minister, my question is about fair taxes. Last week I was pleasantly surprised twice, because I could read in the press statements that are direct quotes from the sp.a-election programme. I would like to mention those remarks here. First quote: "If efforts are required from everyone, capabilities must also contribute." That comes directly from the sp.a-election programme, but amazingly enough it was a statement by an ex-premier of our country, Yves Leterme. A few days later, a new quote appeared, which I would like to give to the sitting: "People expect us to demand very clear efforts from the wealthy." That too has been picked directly from the sp.a-election programme, but it is amazing to hear it from the mouth of Minister Kris Peeters. In fact, efforts have been made in the previous government to get an added value tax approved and CD&V opposed it at that time. I remember statements by Kris Peeters, not yet a Deputy Prime Minister, but simply a figurehead of CD&V, who clearly said before the elections: "No capital tax with us." I have also reread the CD&V election programme and there is no mention of a capital gain tax. But suddenly, today, CD&V says there should be a capital gain tax. That's why I ask CD&V which CD&V we should believe: the CD&V from a few months ago, the CD&V from during the coalition agreement also in the coalition agreement doesn't contain a letter about a capital gain tax or today's CD&V, which is behind the facts? Mr President, you indicate that I must conclude, and I think I am the first to hear it from you. I had addressed my question to the head of government, who unfortunately is not here today. I would like to ask who is actually speaking on behalf of the government. Is it Deputy Prime Minister Peeters or Deputy Prime Minister Jambon, who says the opposite of Deputy Prime Minister Peeters on the basis of the same coalition agreement? I would have liked to have heard the Prime Minister about this, but I understand that the Minister of Finance will help us out of need and doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u48	Mr President, Minister, every year the OECD makes recommendations on the economic situation of its member countries. This morning, we learned that, in a provisional version of the recommendations it intends to make to Belgium, the OECD puts forward the taxation of capital gains, with the main aim of reducing taxation on labour, particularly on the lowest incomes. Indeed, our country represents a real paradox: labour is extremely taxed and the income of capital is scarce. I would like to point out that the system of taxation on capital gains is particularly light. While, during the election campaign, extensive tax reform was present on all lips, including among the parties now in the majority government, none of this appears in the government agreement. We were in favour of a shift from labour taxation to capital taxation. Unfortunately, we see nothing; on the contrary, you are attacking the purchasing power of low and middle incomes. On the other hand, you have indeed anticipated another of the OECD recommendations: the increase in consumption taxes. That reinforces the tax injustice that you have created. Minister, do you intend to take into consideration the part of the OECD's recommendations that Belgium should increase the tax on capital gains? If so, how will you respond?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u49	Minister, it was written in the stars that you would have questions today about the capital gains tax. It was even written in the papers. I note that Mr Leterme is saying a few things about this. I wonder whether Mr Leterme had ever been Prime Minister and perhaps better thought of that at the time. I note that Mr Verherstraeten makes statements about this, remains very friendly and is not looking for an alternative majority. I note that Mr Jamar makes statements on this matter, which he clarified yesterday in the Finance Committee. I note that Mr Peeters is making statements about this. I hear a lot of statements from Mr Calvo, including on this subject. I also hear of it sp.a, I hear of Ecolo, I even hear of the PS. That is a bit strange: the capital gains tax has been in the programme for decades, it has been in power for 26 years and nothing has been achieved. People talk about it, they argue for it. At least it's a very popular theme. Mr Minister, my question to you is very simple. The capital gains tax is not in the government agreement, it is not in Mr Jamar's policy letter. What is the government's position?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u50	Mr President, with regard to the OECD recommendations, this organisation prepares country reports every 18 months. It is in the process of finalizing the report on Belgium. His delegates were here two weeks ago and a Belgian delegation will visit the OECD at the end of November. It is therefore perhaps too early to conclude at this stage what the OECD will recommend to us. We have to wait and see. The same OECD, like the European Commission, is placing Belgium in third place in the area of capital taxation. That's not at the top, but it's also far from the bottom. What is the government's position? Let me briefly remind you of the strategy of this government. We are putting the budget in order through a reform on the expenditure side, which is historically relatively unique, and we are working on a tax shift to take a number of positive measures, including with regard to purchasing power and competitiveness. The questioners have all asked about the government's position. The government states in its government programme, which is ultimately the only real voice of the government, that a further tax shift should be investigated. I assume that's what we'll do within the government. What will be discussed and when will be the subject of further discussion within this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your incredibly clear answer. It's like a CD&V answer, I might add. Let me paraphrase the mayor of Antwerp. Do you know what criminal is? Criminally, you do not want to collect 2 billion in potential income from large assets and at the same time you want to deal with the people who work today. That is the criminal of the choice that this government makes and apparently does not want to revise, despite the large statements of CD&V.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u52	Mr Minister, at the reading of Mr Peeters' statements this weekend and at the reading of Mr Jamar's press articles and statements on Monday, we had hoped for a great deal of progress in this area. After yesterday's surrealist Finance Committee, Mr Jamar's volte-face and the CD&V's refusal to support our recommendation on the subject, we understood that these were once again fine words! As my colleague has said, how, in a difficult social context, can you dispense with such recipes? Both the Conseil Supérieur des Finances and some universities have estimated them at several billions! How can you dispense with such revenues that even have the merit of promoting tax justice? If you change your mind, know that we have an open text for co-signature!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u53	Minister, you replied that this matter will be further investigated by the government. The N-VA is behind that. This is a case that can be investigated and discussed, but in the context of a global treatment, within a real tax shift, not within a tax lift. Under this tax shift I understand that the burden on labour must go down clearly, that the wage burden must go down and that taxes on labour must also be reduced. It must not therefore be done in the context of a reorganisation operation to close some well and levy an additional tax, but in the context of the principle of correct or equitable taxation. I hear sp.a and Ecolo-Green pretend we are opposed to that, but who could possibly oppose that principle? (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u54	You see that as a tax lift, not a tax shift, that's the problem. That's the fundamental difference between us. For you it is an additional tax, so more taxes, not for us. I would like to draw the government's attention to a number of points. First of all, the middle class isn't supposed to pay for this. Secondly, an exemption for the small saver seems to me to be important. The negative values must also be taken into account. Finally, it is a break-up of the coalition agreement, an open discussion that can be entered into, but we will also have to discuss a number of socio-economic points.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u55	Mr President, Madam Minister, since you took office, your policy on rail mobility has not reassured us. We talked about numbers and savings. As part of your policy statement, you also said that you would not touch rural lines. Recent events indicate the opposite. Indeed, the daily newspaper De Morgen of 8 November last talks about replacing certain railway lines with buses. In particular, lines 42, 43, 44 would be covered as well as lines 165, 166 and 167, which are in particular in the province of Luxembourg. Every time we talk about savings within SNCB, it is always the rural areas that are the target, to the detriment of the citizens and to the benefit of the big cities. The SNCB Group, as a public undertaking, must ensure a quality and fair public service. In the province of Luxembourg, commuters and students are very numerous and more and more concerned. So replacing trains with buses is not the solution. This lengthens the journey significantly. The capacity is not the same as for trains and this causes traffic jams. However, it is well known that the state costs 8 billion euros a year. Replacing trains with buses is not the solution. It's kind of complementary. Minister, what about the savings? Do you confirm the option of replacing trains with buses? Is this a real alternative you want to defend? If so, what lines would be affected? Finally, neither your colleagues in the Regions nor the transport companies seem to have been consulted before your declarations. Are you planning on meeting them soon? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u56	Mr President, Mrs Poncelet, thank you for your question. I took up my duties a month ago. Since then, like you, I have been asked every day by associations, citizens, the various companies that are asking themselves questions about the changes made in the next transport plan which, I would remind you, will come into force on 14 December 2014. I would like to remind you of the key elements and dates of this transport plan. Article 162 of the Act of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain economic public enterprises provides that SNCB shall draw up a transport plan in fulfilment of the management contract. Any significant changes to this plan shall be subject to the approval of the Council of Ministers. In this context, the Board of Directors of SNCB unanimously approved the structure of the new offer at the meeting on 7 December 2012. I insist on this because I don't really like your little political games. I recall that the PS and the CDH have approved this transportation plan and that you must also take responsibility for it. At the meeting on 14 December 2012, Mr.Labille, after having read a letter, highlighted the risks associated with the simultaneous implementation of the transport plan and the new structures of the SNCB Group. The Board then decided not to approve the plan and to postpone its implementation. On March 25, 2013, my predecessor asked SNCB to continue its study with a view to implementing a new transportation plan in December 2014. Already at the time, he insisted on the need to involve regional public transport companies. I agree with him on this point. I will return to that point. On 19 July 2013, the Council of Ministers approved the SNCB Group's multi-annual investment plan, thus enabling SNCB to ensure consistency between the future transport plan and the agenda of major infrastructure projects. As of December 20, 2013, SNCB's AC unanimously approved the new plan and put it into service in December, with the understanding that some adjustments will still be possible without calling into question the principles of the new transport plan. At the beginning of January 2014, SNCB informed regional public transit companies of future schedules. The aim was to give the different timetables. Contacts have taken place. This is reflected in the responses of the Walloon and Flemish Ministers to parliamentary questions on this subject. That said, we are far from having a comprehensive mobility plan, which I regret. I must therefore take note today of the amendments to the transport plan decided unanimously by the members of the Board and the former government, in the absence of genuine coordination with the Regions. I will do what is necessary to make up for this failure. As you have understood, honourable Member, I would like to see a global reflection, in consultation with the Regions, for the benefit of all Belgians, societies and the economy in general. I repeat, mobility does not stop at regional borders, it must also be conceived and coordinated in a global and national way.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am reassured that you are going to consult with the companies and the Regions and that we are moving towards a more serene future. I hope so! However, as you make a lot of references to the past, I invite you to consult what SNCB had done in 2011 and 2012, namely analyses of certain sections to study the possibility of replacing trains with buses. The conclusion was negative. Let us not go back to the studies that have already shown that it was not effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u58	We shall now turn to Mrs de Coster-Bauchau's question to Secretary of State Tommelein, but the answer will be given by Minister Peeters. I note that the Minister is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u59	Mr. President, he was here two minutes ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u60	I would ask the government to respect Parliament and to be here if necessary. [[Applause]] I propose that the sitting be suspended for 10 minutes. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u61	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u62	This question was first addressed to Secretary of State Tommelein and then passed on to Minister Peeters. But it turns out that Minister Borsus will respond. This is not a correct way to act. This is not a serious way of dealing with Parliament. I must choose my words carefully and thus continue in Dutch. I will specifically ask the government, on behalf of all of you, not to do such matters anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u63	Mr President, the minister, yesterday, opened a major trial at the Brussels Correctional Court, that of the so-called Cachalot case. This is not supposed fraud, Mr Van Hees, it is a real social fraud! The case is of importance because it involves an entire organisation, with fifteen defendants who sold false working documents through front companies allowing access to social benefits, whether they were unemployment benefits, holiday grants or family allowances. This is not supposed fraud, 2,996 false documents have made it possible to obtain about 20 million social benefits! The point is that through their tax returns, they recovered an amount for which they had not been paid tax by the employers. So you're setting the size of the file! Since the false beneficiaries were people in precarious situations, the Labour Auditorate chose not to prosecute them, considering that the ONEM had already punished them sufficiently. Minister, how are we going to control these front companies better, knowing that today it is estimated that there will still be between 10 000 and 12 000 fictitious relations in Belgium? In addition, it would be interesting to optimize collaborations between police, ONSS and Justice to avoid reaching the court in 2014 for events that took place between 2006 and 2011. At the presentation of Mr. Tommelein, it was said that all frauds should be prosecuted. Every fraud is a crime. I therefore do not share what was said by my colleagues in the PS who said that there was a hierarchy of frauds. No, social fraud like this is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u64	Mr President, Madam Member, thank you. First of all, I must ask you to excuse this little incident. My colleague Mr Tommelein was not of bad will, believe it. The exchange of information between my colleague and the Secretary of State had not been communicated, so my colleague Kris Peeters had left the House. I'll try to replace him. There is indeed a case that is now before the Brussels Correctional Court. Even if there are a number of partial confessions, I would not like to express myself in too detail on a case currently before the Court of Justice. However, since this information is public, it should be noted that the situation has grown to an unusual extent. These are criminal acts that took place between 2006 and 2011, with nearly 3,000 criminal acts, over 65 fictitious companies created and used over time, and 45 officials involved in the acts that are now being charged with them in the courts. The damage is estimated to exceed EUR 22-24 million, to the detriment of a number of public institutions or bodies, ONSS and other interlocutors, ONEM or other public instruments or institutions. Through this exemplary dossier, we can therefore see how much there are also whole sections of social fraud that need to be examined with the highest priority by all those who decide (the parliament, the government and the administrations). Thus, as Bart Tommelein summarized yesterday, we were able to record three elements which I believe are important in the fight against social fraud. Firstly, the maximum exchange of information between stakeholders, between administrations, between institutions, all those and all those who, in either way, are aware of all or part of the elements that could identify these infringements. Secondly, the strengthening of a number of sanctions. As we know, the sanction must be effective, it must have an exemplary dimension. Thirdly, to be able, in terms of priority and speedier, to instruct our administrations, their investigation and control section, to be able to carry out the research which has led, today, to the identification of this alleged fraud. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, true solidarity must benefit all those who really need it. We must therefore also be ruthless towards those who want to use our social security systems for the benefit of people who should not benefit from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u65	Minister, thank you for your answer. You outlined the Secretary of State's main priorities: making legality more attractive and, of course, more effective control!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u66	By letter dated 26 August 2014, the President of the National Committee on the Rights of the Child asked the Chamber to make use of the possibility to appoint an observer to attend the meetings of the Commission. By letter of 26 August 2014, the Chairperson of the National Commission for the Rights of the Child invited the Chamber to appoint an observer to attend the meetings of the Commission. In accordance with Article 7 of the Cooperation Agreement of 19 September 2005 on the establishment of the National Commission on the Rights of the Child, the Presidents of the Federal Parliament (and of the parliaments of the federated entities) may, if they deem it necessary, designate an observer to attend the meetings of the Commission and thus carry out a monitoring of its activities. In accordance with Article 7 of the Cooperation Agreement of 19 September 2005 on the establishment of the National Commission for the Rights of the Child, the Presidents of the Federal Parliament (and of the parliaments of the federated entities) may, if they deem it appropriate, appoint an observer to attend the meetings of the Commission and by this means monitor the progress of its work. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 October 2014, the letter of the President of the National Committee on the Rights of the Child and the annexes were sent to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 October 2014, the letter from the President of the National Commission for the Rights of the Child and the annexes were transmitted to the political groups. Ms Meryame Kitir was nominated by the sp.a. Ms Meryame Kitir was proposed by the sp.a. group. Ms Vanessa Matz was nominated by the CdH Group. Mrs Vanessa Matz is proposed by the cdH group. Mrs Stéphanie Thoron is proposed by the MR Group. Ms Stéphanie Thoron is proposed by the MR Group. Since the number of candidates exceeds the number of mandates to be taken, we must take a vote. As the number of candidates exceeds the number of mandates to be filled, a vote should be taken. The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers have already been distributed. I propose that this vote be held at the same time as the first secret ballot for the nomination of the candidate State Councils. I propose that you proceed to this vote together with the first secret ballot to be held for the presentation of the two lists of candidates to the Council of State. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u67	Mr President, as regards the presentation of a list of three candidates for the vacant post of State Councillor, it was not decided yesterday in the Conference of Presidents to proceed to a vote. Conversely, for the appointment of an observer to the National Commission for the Rights of the Child, the Conference of Presidents clearly decided that there would be a vote. On today's agenda, the appointment to the Council of State is absolutely not included in the classification of votes. Not only has this not been decided in the Conference of Presidents, but it is also not on the voting agenda. I make a clear difference to the appointment of the observer to the National Commission for the Rights of the Child, for which the Conference of Presidents decided to vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u68	Colleagues, I have two answers. If anyone objects to the merging of votes, we will vote separately, on children's rights on the one hand and on the Council of State on the other. Moreover, the issue was indeed on the agenda of the Conference of Presidents. The item has even been on the agenda twice. It moved from last week to this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u69	Mr President, I repeat: this has never been discussed or debated in the Conference of Presidents. However, I would like to point out that, for appointment to the Council of State, the parliamentary tradition is to respect the list presented by the Council of State; this practice has been applied all the time. If the list presented is not adopted, it should be debated in the Conference of Presidents – which was not the case – and hearings should be held, such as last week in the Senate. Today, in no way has a vote been planned. On the contrary, it has been planned to comply with the list submitted by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u70	Mevrouw Fonck, ik lees u voor wat er op said staat document: "Conseil d'État – Appointment of a French-speaking State Councillor and a Dutch-speaking State Councillor." This was clearly on the agenda of our meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u71	Mr President, the appointment of a French-speaking State Councillor and a Dutch-speaking State Councillor is indeed on the agenda of our plenary session. The role of the Conference of Presidents held yesterday was to define the modalities for the plenary session. Would a vote be taken? Would the proposal of the Council of State as drafted simply be implemented? You know very well that, as a general rule, we simply endorse the proposal made by the Council of State, which seems to me to be a very healthy way of working. It is a question of trusting an institution to which we are asked to make a classification, which is submitted to us and which can be validated or not. Traditionally, the classification presented by the Council of State is simply validated. In that case, there is no question of voting. No vote is taken. The will of this new majority is, after having asked the Council of State – an independent authority and which we must respect – to proceed with a ranking, to sweep the latter purely and simply to go to search for a candidate not included in the list of the first three candidates and to have a majority vote – where each one will be held – for the nomination of the candidate. This is really giving a slap to our institutions and, in particular, to the Council of State. Either we follow the usual procedure of application by confirming the classification proposed by the latter, or we proceed to a vote in order to give your support to one of your boyfriends by not respecting the ranking validated by the vote of the General Assembly of the Council of State, independent authority, I repeat. Choose well and be well aware of what you are doing!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u72	Mr President, I would simply like to point out that I do not know any democracy in the world where a vote in Parliament does not add any democratic added value. If we proceed to a vote, that is the most democratic way of dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u73	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u74	Mr President, I would like to remind you that last week the Senate also made nominations. The Senate has been wise enough to organise hearings which seem to have been so educational that the order has been reversed because one of the candidates has fallen completely into the basket and has not been able to answer any of the questions put by Members. I believe that this practice is the proper right of an assembly such as the Senate. I would suggest to you, Mr President, that we also provide for hearings in the future so that we can hear the candidates. It is not the intention to choose one or the other political direction, but to judge whether the proposed candidates are appropriate. This is also provided for in the legislation. I therefore disagree with the view that it is a tradition to accept the names proposed by the Council of State in no uncertain terms. The precedent was made in the Senate last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u75	I take note of your proposal, which will, of course, have to be formalised.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u76	Mr. President, there was a tradition. It is always possible to change traditions, but it is good to know it beforehand. The tradition, as my colleagues have said, was in the Conference of Presidents to accept or not the list presented by the Council of State. If it were accepted, we did not vote individually for the candidates, but we confirmed the order of the Council of State. If the proposal of the Council of State was not accepted, then we discussed in the Conference of Presidents how to make the choice on an individual basis. Mr Vuye speaks of democratic surplus value. It would be interesting, in terms of democratic added value, if the proposals of the Council of State were not supported, each Member would be able to get an idea through, for example, hearings. As we did not discuss it in the Conference of Presidents, we believed in good faith that it was simply support for the Council of State. If this is not the case, I think it is necessary to say so in order for democratic work, possibly involving hearings, to take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u77	Mr President, everyone has spoken. Let us be very clear about tradition! I hear what was just said, a moment ago, by my colleagues at Ecolo-Groen. The tradition is not simply to respect the ranking of the Council of State; the tradition is that if this ranking is not respected, it is said and discussed in the Conference of Presidents. It is then decided whether or not a nominative vote is taken. On the other hand, I am amazed to hear that democratic added value is simply to push a button rather than trust and build on the expertise and qualities of the different candidates. I would have thought that in a situation such as this, members of the majority would have a sense of responsibility enough to judge the experience and quality of the people rather than make their little arrangements with friends by having otherwise, Mr President – and it is to you that I turn to – completely flouted the Conference of Presidents. I repeat here: it has not been decided in the Conference of Presidents to take a nominative vote on the candidates for the Council of State. This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u78	Mr President, we have heard different opinions. It is true, however, that the Conference of Presidents did not decide that we would vote individually today. That's right. You must acknowledge that, and the majority will also acknowledge that. It's true it's not a tradition. We usually follow. However, we want to reverse tradition. I therefore propose that we do the business as in the Senate and postpone the item and proceed to hearings so that we can vote with confidence. In the past, we relied on the knowledge of the Council of State. Now we will not do that, but we will vote free. I therefore believe that we should hold hearings so that we can vote with knowledge. I therefore propose, Mr President, that you prepare yourself very well for the forthcoming votes and that we can effectively decide in the Conference of Presidents how the plenary will proceed and how the votes will take place in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u79	Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of our House, and in particular of Mrs Fonck, to the fact that the proposal made by the Council of State, black and white, is not unanimous. Obviously, there may also be debates, as here, regardless of what is taking place in the Conference of Presidents. In fact, we would benefit from hearing and forming our own opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u80	All I can say is this. Firstly, I take note of Mr Van Hecke's proposal, which has been remanded by Mrs Temmerman. I must say that I am personally in favour of this proposal, but we will have to talk about it and formalize it. That is a first point. Secondly, there can be no delay here, because you have seen in the documents that there is a limit date, which is very close, not to say that it is the last possible day. I therefore propose that we proceed to the vote, but with due regard for Mrs Fonck's remark, namely that we separate the votes and that we vote first on the appointment of an observer to the National Committee on the Rights of the Child.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u81	Mr. President, you're inventing us today...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u82	Your n'invente rien, Madame Fonck!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u83	Mr President, today you are inventing a vote that has not been decided in the Conference of Presidents. We can decide today to do auditions quickly. Anything is possible. And then proceed to the vote on the basis of the qualities and expertise required for a State adviser. What is still the purpose of the Conference of Presidents? I would like to be explained to me, including the majority, what the Conference of Presidents still serves if, in any case, the next day, something else is decided and if, on the other hand, when nothing has been said about it, you decide alone without the accession of the Conference of Presidents, without warning the Conference of Presidents and by giving rise to a point above the vote of nominatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u84	Mr President, Mrs Fonck's arguments are well understood. However, we must not forget a basic rule of any parliamentary functioning. An assembly is the master of its work. Therefore, a vote must be taken in our Assembly. The Conference of Presidents has its positive aspects, but it is not the Conference that will decide what Members will vote. The assembly decides and is the master of its work.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u85	Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Miller that, in order for democracy to function properly, we must also respect the Rules of Procedure. The functions given to the Conference of Presidents are mentioned in the Rules of Procedure and the Conference of Presidents determines how the plenary session works. If, when there is something which, supposedly, has not been fixed in the Conference of Presidents, we must not commit ourselves to it, I swear to you, we will have a lot of pleasure! We'll have fun every day! If every time we have not committed ourselves to a moment or a time of speech, we must not respect it, if every time a procedure has not been mentioned as every time it has been applied according to tradition in Parliament, we must not respect it, I promise you a lot of pleasure! Mr Miller, of course, Parliament is sovereign. Who would I be to say something else? Why is the opinion of the Council of State being sought in this procedure? Because it makes sense! Mr Miller, you are smart enough to know that a parliament is nothing if it does not feed its democratic debate with the institutions which, as is the case here in particular, it must designate the members. If, at some point, we decided that it was the Council of State that had to rank us, it meant something. To say that if we do not want to respect it, we must therefore hold hearings in order to form our own opinion, I agree! But in this case, there is a ranking of the Council of State! Because you want to appoint a person other than that listed by the Council of State, you do not conduct hearings and you are going to designate someone who is not included in the top three rankings of the Council of State, it is simply a blatant lack of respect for an institution such as the Council of State. What you do is simply choose your person rather than form an opinion and be worthy of your parliamentary mandate!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u86	Mr Wathelet, I take note of that. Mr Miller, you too will have the floor one last time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u87	Mr President, there is still a slight personal fact in Mr Wathelet's remarks. I recognize that he too is intelligent; so I see no problems at this level. Nevertheless, Mr President, first of all, I have heard, like all members of this House, that you have found the proposal made by Mr. Van Hecke and that it must be formalised; that is normal and I also agree with this. Secondly, an assembly is still in control of its work. Thirdly, as you said, Mr Wathelet, this is indeed an "opinion" which is given by the Council of State. It is not the Council of State that will vote here.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u88	Mr President, all of this leaves the impression of a "stuut" - as it is said in some places - that we have organised something not clean. I think it's a little problematic. There are two votes: one for the presentation of a list for a Dutch-speaking State Councillor, and the other for a French-speaking State Councillor. For Dutch speakers, does anyone absolutely want to vote in their individual capacity or does there exist an agreement to vote in accordance with the presentation of the Council of State? Let's say it! If everyone agrees, there is no need to move around to sign his agreement. As far as Francophones are concerned, Idem! Since we have not heard in the Conference of Presidents that there is any problem, there should be no problem; therefore, why move? If there is one, let the group that has a problem reveal itself so that we can know. Was there a maneuver? I don't know, but it would be interesting to fix things. Mr President, could we be sure of seeing, in this assembly - indeed sovereign, Mr Miller - whether a group has the will not to respect tradition?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u89	Mr President, I think there is a consensus that hearings should be scheduled. The only question that remains, and that you have raised, is that of deadlines. I recall that in other assemblies the time limits were extended by default. Perhaps the legislative services can shed some light on us. Is there a sanction in the law? Have there been any precedents in this chamber? From memory, it seems to me that, yes. If we could check this out, we could conduct hearings since everyone seems to have acquired this idea. It could also be retained for the future, regardless of the parties in the government. Mrs Fonck, I have the memory of rankings of the Council of State that have not necessarily been well respected, including by your party. I'll send them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we proceed to the secret ballots. As Mrs Fonck has suggested, we are starting with the appointment of the observer to the National Committee on the Rights of the Child. The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers were distributed. Since the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. The ladies Yoleen Van Camp and Nawal Ben Hamou are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Yoleen Van Camp and Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. At the call of his name, each member is asked to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the gallery, from my left to my right. I would point out that only the ballot papers bearing the name of a candidate nominated for the vote are valid. In addition, the votes cast on more than one candidate have been invalid. I would remind you that only ballots that mention the name of a candidate presented before the vote are valid. Moreover, the votes cast in favour of more than one candidate are void. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u91	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? The vote is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u92	The next item is the nomination of a list of three candidates for a vacant post of the Dutch-speaking State Council and the nomination of a list of three candidates for a vacant post of the French-speaking State Council. The next item is the submission of a list of three candidates for a vacant post of French-speaking State Councillor and the submission of a list of three candidates for a vacant post of Dutch-speaking State Councillor. The lists of three candidates nominated by the Council of State, for the vacant posts of a Dutch-speaking State Council and a French-speaking State Council, were communicated to you at the plenary session of 23 October 2014. The lists of three candidates nominated by the Council of State for the vacant seats of a French-speaking State Councillor and a Dutch-speaking State Councillor were communicated to you during the plenary session on 23 October 2014. Since the nominations are not unanimous, the Chamber of Representatives may, in accordance with Article 70 (1), eighth paragraph, of the laws of the Council of State, either confirm the lists proposed by the Council of State or propose two other lists of three names which are expressly justified within 30 days of receipt of the nomination. Since the presentations are not unanimous, the House of Representatives may, in accordance with Article 70, § 1, paragraph 8, laws on the Council of State, and within 30 days of receipt of the presentation, either confirm the lists submitted by the Council of State or submit two other lists of three names which are formally motivated. As the time limit was interrupted during the parliamentary recess, a new 30-day period began on the day following the appointment of the Permanent Bureau of the Chamber, which is 15 October 2014 (see Art. 70, § 1, 11th and 12th members of the coordinated laws of the Council of State). Since the deadline was interrupted during the parliamentary holidays, a further thirty days began to run on the day following the appointment of the final Bureau of the House, i.e. on 15 October 2014 (see art. 70, § 1, eleventh and twelfth paragraphs of the coordinated laws on the Council of State). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 September 2014, the following documents were submitted to the political groups: the nomination of candidates by the Council of State, the minutes of the public session of the General Assembly and a copy of each application with the corresponding CV. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 September 2014, the nomination of candidates by the Council of State as well as the minutes of the public hearing of the General Assembly and a copy of each candidature with CV were forwarded to the political groups. I suggest you proceed to the secret ballot. I propose that you proceed to the secret ballot. Documents containing the names of the candidates (Articles 568/1 and 569/1) have been distributed. Documents with the names of the petitioners (Doc. Nos. 568/1 and 569/1) were distributed. The ballots for the first candidates N and F have already been distributed. Ballot papers for the first F and N candidates were distributed. Since the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Ladies Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to place his unsigned ballot papers in the ballot boxes when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. At the call of his name, each member is asked to submit his unsigned ballots in the ballot boxes, going up to the rostrum, from my left to my right. I would point out that only the ballot papers bearing the name of a candidate nominated for the vote are valid. In addition, the votes cast on more than one candidate have been invalid. I would remind you that only ballots that mention the name of a candidate presented before the vote are valid. Moreover, the votes cast in favour of more than one candidate are void. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u93	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? The vote is closed. I declare the ballot closed. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u94	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u95	Votes 147 Votants Blank or invalid 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... White or invalid Valid 144 Valables Perfect majority 73 Absolute majority Mrs. Meryame Kitir received 45 votes. Ms. Meryame Kitir won 45 votes. Mrs Vanessa Matz received nine votes. Mrs Vanessa Matz won 9 votes. Mrs. Stéphanie Thoron received 90 votes. Ms. Stephanie Thoron won 90 votes. As Mrs Stéphanie Thoron received 90 votes, this is the absolute majority, she is appointed as an observer to the National Committee on the Rights of the Child. Ms. Stéphanie Thoron, having obtained 90 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, was appointed as an observer to the National Commission on the Rights of the Child.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u96	Votes 136 Votants Blank or invalid 9 White or invalid Valid 127 Valables Perfect majority 64 Absolute majority Mrs Ann Carette received 11 votes. Ms. Ann Carette won 11 votes. Mr Koen Muylle received 116 votes. Mr. Koen Muylle obtained 116 votes. Since Mr Koen Muylle received 116 votes, which is the absolute majority, he was declared the first candidate for the vacant post of State Council (N). Mr Koen Muylle, having obtained 116 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, was declared the first candidate for the vacant post of State Councillor (N).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u97	Votes 136 Votants Blank or invalid 9 White or invalid Valid 127 Valables Perfect majority 64 Absolute majority Mr Marc Joassart received 49 votes. Mr. Marc Joassart obtained 49 votes. Mrs Wanda Vogel received 78 votes. Ms. Wanda Vogel obtained 78 votes. As Mrs Wanda Vogel has received 78 votes, which is the absolute majority, she is declared the first candidate for the vacant post of State Council (F). Ms. Wanda Vogel, having obtained 78 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, was declared the first candidate for the vacant post of State Councillor (F). We shall now proceed to the designation of the second candidates N and F. Now we are making the appointment of the second F and N candidates. The ballots have been distributed. Ballot papers were distributed. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u98	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? The vote is closed. I declare the ballot closed. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u99	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u100	Votes 138 Votants Blank or invalid [[14]] White or invalid Valid 124 Valables Perfect majority 63 Absolute majority Mr Marc Joassart received 85 votes. Mr. Marc Joassart obtained 85 votes. Mrs Elisabeth Willemart received 39 votes. Mrs Elisabeth Willemart won 39 votes. Since Mr Marc Joassart received 85 votes, which is the absolute majority, he was declared a second candidate for the vacant post of State Council (F). Mr. Marc Joassart, having obtained 85 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is declared second candidate for the vacant position of State Councillor (F).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u101	Votes 138 Votants Blank or invalid 13 White or invalid Valid 125 Valables Perfect majority 63 Absolute majority Mrs Ann Carette received nine votes. Ms. Ann Carette won 9 votes. Mrs Patricia De Somere received 116 votes. Patricia De Somere won 116 votes. As Mrs Patricia De Somere has received 116 votes, this is the absolute majority, she is named second candidate for the vacant office of State Council (N). Ms. Patricia De Somere, having obtained 116 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, was declared second candidate for the vacant post of State Councillor (N). We shall now proceed to the designation of the third candidates N and F. Now we are making the appointment of the third candidates F and N. The ballots have been distributed. Ballot papers were distributed. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u102	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? The vote is closed. I declare the ballot closed. The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u103	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u104	Votes 137 Votants Blank or invalid [[10]] White or invalid Valid 127 Valables Perfect majority 64 Absolute majority Mr Raphaël Born received 12 votes. Mr Raphaël Born obtained 12 votes. Mr Walter Vandenbosch has received one vote. Mr Walter Vandenbosch obtained one vote. Mrs Elisabeth Willemart received 114 votes. Ms Elisabeth Willemart won 114 votes. Since Mrs Elisabeth Willemart received 114 votes, which is the absolute majority, she was named third candidate for the vacant post of State Council (F). Ms. Elisabeth Willemart, having obtained 114 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, was declared third candidate for the vacant post of State Councillor (F).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u105	Votes 137 Votants Blank or invalid [[14]] White or invalid Valid 123 Valables Perfect majority 62 Absolute majority Mrs Ann Carette received nine votes. Ms. Ann Carette won 9 votes. Mr Luc Vermeire received 114 votes. Mr. Luc Vermeire won 114 votes. Since Mr Luc Vermeire received 114 votes, which is the absolute majority, he was declared a third candidate for the vacant post of State Council (N). Mr Luc Vermeire, having obtained 114 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is declared third candidate for the vacant post of State Councillor (N).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u106	I propose that the members of the committee responsible for supervising the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee I be appointed. I propose that you appoint the members who will be members of the Standing Committee P and Standing Committee R follow-up committee. It's about 13 permanent members. These are 13 actual members. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the breakdown is as follows: I should like to recall that, in accordance with Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the distribution is as follows: N-VA: 3; PS: 2; MR: 2; CD&V: 2; Open Vld: 1; sp.a.: 1; Ecolo-Green: 1; cdH: 1. The chairmen of the political groups have sent me the applications of the members of their political groups who will be part of this committee. The presidents of the political groups have sent me the nominations of the members of their group who will be members of this committee. N-VA: Conseil Degroote, Peter Buysrogge, Hendrik Vuye; PS: Laurette Onkelinx, André Frédéric; MR: Denis Ducarme, Philippe Pivin; CD&V: Servais Verherstraeten, Franky Demon; Open Vld: Patrick Dewael; sp.a: Karin Temmerman; Ecolo-Green: Stefaan Van Hecke; cdH: Christian Brotcorne. Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of seats to be taken to the political groups which have nominated candidates, it is not necessary to vote in accordance with Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of eligible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be given to political groups that have nominated candidates, there is no vote in accordance with Rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby declare elected candidates who have been nominated. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated elected.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u107	By law of 19 January 2010, the Belgian Survival Fund was replaced by a Belgian Food Security Fund. Pursuant to Article 7 of this Act, a working group "BFVZ" is set up consisting of members of the Chamber, including a chairman and a first and second Vice-President. Under the Act of 19 January 2010, the Belgian Survival Fund was replaced by a Belgian Food Security Fund. In accordance with article 7 of the Act, a working group "FBSA" has been set up, comprising, inter alia, members of the Chamber, among whom are appointed a president and a first and a second vice-president. The Conference of Presidents of 12 November 2014 proposes to designate one member per political group. The Conference of Presidents on 12 November 2014 proposes to appoint one member per political group. The following names shall be communicated: The following names are provided: N-VA: Renate Hufkens; PS: Gwenaëlle Grovonius; MR: Kattrin Jadin; CD&V: Roel Deseyn; Open Vld: Ine Somers; sp.a: David Geerts; Ecolo-Green: Anne Dedry; cdH: Georges Dallemagne. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u108	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, and with the exception of the proposal No. 546/1 by Mr Éric Thiébaut, Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and Mr Willy Demeyer who withdraw their proposal, I consider it adopted; these proposals are sent to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there are no comments on this subject and with the exception of proposal No. 546/1 by Mr Eric Thiébaut, Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and Mr Willy Demeyer who withdraw their proposal, I shall consider it to be taken into account and refer the proposals to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? Pas d'observation? It is thus decided. That will be the case. In line with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 November 2014, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Karin Temmerman and Mrs Monica De Coninck and Mr Emir Kir) amending the law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and removal of foreign nationals with regard to the better protection of unaccompanied minors, No. 579/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u109	- the legislative proposal (Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mrs Meyrem Almaci, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mr Kristof Calvo) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 to combat transfer pricing abuse, No. 587/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u110	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 November 2014, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (Ms. Karin Temmerman and Monica De Coninck and Mr. Emir Kir) amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and removal of aliens with a view to better protecting unaccompanied foreign minors, No. 579/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u111	- the draft law (Mr Georges Gilkinet, Ms Meyrem Almaci, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Messrs. Jean-Marc Nollet and Kristof Calvo) amending the Income Tax Code 1992, aimed at combating transfer pricing abuses, No. 587/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u112	Are you sure you don't mind? Pas d'observation? It is thus decided. That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u113	The interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises on 5 November 2014. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises on 5 November 2014. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 001/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Jan Penris; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Inez De Coninck and Mr Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr Gilles Foret and Mr Veli Yüksel. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 001/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Jan Penris; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs. Inez De Coninck and Ms. Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr. Gilles Foret and Veli Yüksel. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u114	I would have offered the Minister my soutien. I would like to support her in her policy towards the Belgian railways, particularly with regard to the problems of strike which she and we all face. That was also the tone of the debate we had in committee. I considered at that time that passengers were entitled to a guaranteed public transport offer. I also considered that it should be possible to guarantee it even at strike times and that we should be able to sanction those who do not respect that basic right. I spoke to the Minister about this. She replied evasively, but I encourage her to do so. I call on the government and in particular on it to draw up the necessary measures to ensure that workers who enter into public service activities outside normal collective employment relationships are properly sanctioned. I support the Minister. I hope that the majority will support us, but I have already noticed that it simply wants to move on to the order of the day, which has been taken note of.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u115	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 87 Yes No. [[16]] No Abstentions 35 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-13-54-plenair-ip015x.u116	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 20 November 2014. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 20 November 2014. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 20 November 2014, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 20 November 2014 at 2.15 p.m.
