ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u1	Mr President, Minister, first of all I would like to point out that my question is a direct result of a confrontation I have as mayor at local level about the proper functioning of justice. Like my predecessor and his predecessor, the two previous mayors of my city, I intervened at some point in the religious life of the sikh community, which is absolutely not evident. That does not happen with the greatest pleasure, not by me or by my predecessors. There was always the same reason, in particular that in and around the Sikh Temple in Vilvoorde a number of people are found, with a certain system, who reside illegally in the country. They're mostly Indian origins and they're linked to human trafficking. It was a sigh of relief when, about a year ago, effective sanctions were pronounced against a series of people responsible for the organisation of trafficking in human beings, with 12 people sentenced together in November 2013, with a joint prison sentence of about 54 years. That sigh of relief was relatively quickly over. My police services and others have been given very strong indications over the past few months that the network could recover. Once again illegals are found in and around the sikh temple. The direct reason for me to decide to close it was the fact that eleven people were found who visited the temple very frequently. They were literally picked up underground. They stayed illegally in a hole under a certain business premises pending a seat in some obscure car heading for England. Last September, another ten illegals were found in such appalling circumstances, including a minor. After the arraignment, the persons concerned were released at the highest speed, albeit with an order to leave the territory. In the case of the minor, the case is a little more nuanced given the regulations. During the trial of 6 November 2013, the judge issued sentences and effectively sentenced persons for organising human trafficking in and around the Vilvoord sikh temple. Are the penalties implemented effectively? The victims of trafficking who were illegal in our country, in particular those who were literally liberated from underground in September, were arraigned by our police forces and released the same day. How can you justify that? What procedure should be followed when leading unaccompanied minors who are victims of trafficking in human beings?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u2	I will try to answer your questions exactly, Mr Bonte. Firstly, trafficking in human beings is not the same as trafficking in human beings. Trafficking in human beings relates to exploitation by labour or sexual exploitation, while trafficking in human beings involves helping to cross borders with a view to obtaining a capital advantage. In the first case, therefore, it is the exploitation that is central. In the second case, it is more about organising the illegal crossing of borders for a fee. The criminalisations of both crimes are different and the measures taken against the victims are also different. Without going into detail about the case you mention, I can confirm that there have been several convictions against a dozen people who were part of a network of smuggling people from India. It is therefore a case of smuggling, not of trade. That network was involved in the clandestine transport of persons, mainly to the United Kingdom, where the surroundings of the Sikh Temple in Vilvoorde would have acted as a point of contact and transit according to the routes used by the network. A verdict condemning the perpetrators was issued on 6 November 2013 and was followed by an appeal ruling in March of this year. The perpetrators have been sentenced to prison sentences and fines, some to effective prison sentences, others with delay. Some of the unsubs were convicted in absentia. The execution of those sentenced to effective prison sentences, some of whom were subject to an immediate arrest and whose judgment was not delivered by default, is normal: account is taken of the arrangements for the execution of detention and, depending on the duration, of the sentences pronounced, which were not all the same, according to the degree of involvement of the perpetrators. In the case of prosecutions, the perpetrators of such smuggling are generally a priority. Furthermore, there are two directives, of the College of Attorney General and of the Minister responsible, on the detection and prosecution of offences relating to trafficking in human beings or to trafficking in human beings. Secondly, as far as the victims of human trafficking are concerned, the usual procedure is to issue an order to leave the territory. In most cases this administrative treatment is applied. Criminal proceedings may be considered against persons who have been victims of human trafficking if, in addition to their illegal residence, they have committed several other offences. This does not, of course, preclude special treatment in certain situations, depending on the priorities of the local authorities or the nuisance caused. In the case of trafficking in human beings, a very different procedure applies, since in the case of exploitation by labour in violation of human dignity or sexual slavery, special protection measures are applied, in accordance with the provisions of the international texts by which Belgium is bound. This implies the referral of those persons to specialised facilities and the installation of a 45-day reflection period so that they can obtain from the traumatic complications incurred and decide whether or not they want to participate in the investigation, by making statements or lodging a complaint against their exploiters. If that is the case, a system for issuing residence permits shall enter into force. These measures can sometimes also be applied in the case of human trafficking, but only in the case of their heavier forms and always on condition that the victim cooperates in the investigation. On the basis of the prior information available to me, I have no indication that this would be the case here. As far as your third question is concerned, there are special procedures for minors. In addition to the procedure for determining the actual age of the person concerned, a guardian should be appointed for the unaccompanied minor alien and the person concerned should be referred to the competent services for the accommodation of unaccompanied minor aliens or to Fedasil. Moreover, for minors in housing and specific follow-up, specialised centres are provided for, in accordance with the applicable procedure in the context of trafficking in human beings and heavier forms of trafficking in human beings. In general, the best interests of the child are always taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You said you would try to answer the precise questions as accurately as possible. I have a few comments to make. You rightly point out that, as a non-lawyer, I am a little sloppy in using the terms trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings, which have different legal connotations and content. In practice, however, I can assure you that the border is sometimes thin, even in this case. If you know what amounts need to be coughed up when people are already effectively illegal in the country, I think that the border between smuggling and trafficking is more of a legal-academic distinction. Secondly, Minister, you are referring to the judgment of November 2013. In this constellation it may be impossible to be very precise, but the data I get shows that only a small number of convicted persons are actually serving prison time. Let me remind you of the context. All indications indicate that the network is recovering perfectly. They have been sentenced to one year's effective imprisonment. You refer to the March judgment which confirms that. Then it turns out that only a minority of the 11 guilty are actually in prison. Thirdly, Minister, I find this most painful, in reply to my question on unaccompanied minors, you refer to the procedure. In any case, there will be guidance and a guardian appointed. In the meantime, I've already figured out that procedure. In this case, the young person has never been with his guardian. He was arraigned and released immediately thereafter. He never even got in touch with his guardian. So he's back in the hands of the same smugglers. I say that to show what reality is. All services, including judicial services, were particularly pleased this year in March to be able to stop malpractice by legal means. However, all indications indicate that the problem is not under control. If I compare your answer to practice, there is a huge gap between theory and practice. I deeply regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament 77 by Mr Van den Bergh and 111 by Mr Bonte are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u5	Mr Minister, you are well aware of the problem of abolishing the municipal criminal record and have been waiting for years. According to the latest information provided by the VVSG, at least according to its publication, the FPS Justice made itself strong that the connection of all Registrys to the Central Criminal Register would be a fact by 31 December 2014. However, transitional periods would be set for certain aspects until 1 January 2018, such as the integration of municipal registers, population changes, friendly settlements and so on. Of course, I have every sympathy for this, because nothing can easily be introduced. However, a sample at a number of Registrys tells us that the Registrys were still not informed about the connection to the Central Criminal Register. How can such a connection still be achieved effectively in the few time that we have left until the end of the year? Is that realistic? Is the date of 31 December 2014.................................................................................................................................................................................................... What are the steps to be taken between today and the full connection of the Registrys to the Central Criminal Register? In what way and when will the Registrys be kept informed?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u6	Minister, I have also tabled a question on the same subject, but I am mainly focusing on the municipalities and their staff. They too still have a number of questions. I believe that the pooling of all data in the Central Criminal Register is a good thing. However, we must ensure that the amendment is correct and good for all those involved from 1 January 2015. That is my concern and perhaps that of Mr Degroote. After all, we are only six weeks away from the deadline of 1 January. There is still a great deal of uncertainty about what the announced change will mean for the municipal criminal record. Is 1 January still feasible? Is everyone ready to make the switch? What about the transition period? If I understand correctly, there is a transitional period of three years, until 2018, during which both municipalities and the Justice Department will provide data. It is likely that nothing will happen at municipal or urban level after that transitional period and that no work will have to be stopped there? Can you confirm that? Will it be the case that, during the three-year transitional period, a search has to be carried out twice each time, in the municipal and the Central Criminal Register, in order to be able to provide an extract? Will the citizen receive two documents? Could you give us some explanation? What will happen during the transitional period? In what way will the software be made compatible with that of the Central Criminal Register? Will there be any training for the employees involved or will it be guidelines that can be found on the website of the Central Criminal Register?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u7	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, Mr Degroote, I will try to answer your questions, albeit the answers will be a bit mixed up. The 1997 Law on the Central Criminal Register already provides that all Registrys must register their information for the Central Criminal Register. Each authority has for a long time its specific application, e.g. MACH for police courts, REA/TPI for courts of first instance, etc.These data are forwarded to the Central Criminal Register. From 1 January 2015, all new convictions will be entered in the Central Criminal Register without the manual intervention of the Registrys or municipalities. This is also planned for all additional types of information, such as friendly settlements and information bulletins, by 1 January 2018. By that date, the complete backlog should also be eliminated, with the scarce resources that are ours. European convictions of countries connected to the European system ECRIS are also automatically registered in the Central Criminal Register without the intervention of the Registrys or Municipalities. ICT applications and access to municipalities are still under development. The expected end date is around the reported date. Then there is still a test to be done. This implies that there will be a delay in the connection of the municipalities. The start-up will be done in consultation with these municipalities. As far as the information provided by the Registry is concerned, communication is always provided at the right time with regard to the opening up of new types of information. You know the purpose of the Central Criminal Register. I therefore believe that I should not go into this in more detail. The practice whereby the same conviction is transmitted by the Registry to the Central Criminal Register and to the criminal register of the municipality where the convicted person resides or resides is decreasing. There's only one central register left. I come to Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's question. On 1 January 2018, the municipal criminal records will disappear permanently for the purposes of the consultation of the Central Criminal Register by the municipal administrations. In parallel, the project of direct interrogation of the Central Criminal Register is being investigated by the citizen. The objective is that the Central Criminal Register will eventually contain all convictions, including those currently registered only by the municipal criminal register. For historical reasons, all police sentences which do not infringe the penal code, or are accompanied by a decline in the right to direct, are registered only in the municipal court and not in the Central Criminal Register. This changes on January 1st. The information bulletin mainly contains three types of information: a complete sheet of the National Register, any convictions and any friendly solutions. An analysis within my department takes place to optimise the transmission of this information and, if necessary, to make the necessary legislative changes. At present, the authorities and authorities have access to the National Registry and the Central Criminal Register, which are competent to take note of this information. The question is thus essentially about friendly solutions. The dual search objective is to do everything possible to avoid double interrogation and the simultaneous delivery of two documents from different sources. This issue is currently the subject of a joint analysis by the ICT framework service of the Justice Department and representatives of the municipalities. The application of the municipalities will communicate with the Central Criminal Register via a web service. For each type of extract requested through the software of the municipalities one will receive an extract from the Central Criminal Register per turn. In recent months, a working group has been set up consisting of the departments of my department concerned and the associations of towns and municipalities of the various regions and of representatives of the companies supplying computer applications to the municipalities. It is therefore in close cooperation with these actors that the issue of extracts from the Central Criminal Register is prepared by the municipal administrations. In addition to the training which will be provided at least to these associations and companies, practical guidelines will also be distributed by my department for the benefit of all the municipal officials concerned. I hope I have answered most of your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. From this I learn that the definitive disappearance of the municipal criminal record will in fact take place on 1 November 2018. On my first question, namely whether the date of 31 December 2014 is still realistic, I note that you answer that there will be a delay. You say that the Registry will be informed at the right time. As far as these two aspects are concerned, therefore, I am somewhat hungry. Can you give us a clearer timing or is that not yet possible? [[The Minister shakes no]] That's not possible yet? All right, I get that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. However, there remains uncertainty for the Registrys and the people of the city services. You spoke of a working group with people from your department and the VVSG. It is the task of the VVSG to inform all cities correctly so that officials know what to do after 1 January. It is a nice story that will free up manpower for other tasks in the cities and municipalities. Today many officials are working on this full-time or almost full-time. So it's a way to work more efficiently. However, I would ask you to ensure that the transition is properly monitored and that there are no uncertainties.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u10	Mrs Temmerman is not present for her question No. 195.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u11	Mr President, Minister, you will also have read recently that Touring, the motorists' association of interests, is concerned about a arbitrariness that would exist among the police judges in our country. What's it about? In one arrondissement, motor vehicles are very quickly forfeited in the event of traffic offences, while in another arrondissement, such punishment will be less rapid. Touring itself speaks of a dramatic determination. She goes very far in her statements; she finds it murdering for the credibility of our punishment policy. She asks that the police judges consider whether that is the next step to make the legislation more unambiguous and firmer. It is, of course, a fact that minimum and maximum penalties are often very far apart. It is clear that a judge must look at each case separately. In any case, the court retains its discretion, leaves no doubt about it. However, I think we should be able to have a certain unity. There must be no arbitrariness, the difference must not become too great between the various districts. That's why I have the following questions. Firstly, do you share Touring's view on the arbitrary punishment of police judges? If that is the case, what actions will you take to improve the credibility of the system? In the context of road safety and a slightly more homogeneous approach, are you considering making the confiscation, which is now optional, compulsory and amending the law in that context? Perhaps you wish that not for all cases, but for some cases? Such compulsoryation could in any case avoid certain discrepancies between districts. My next question concerns figures, Minister. If you don't have that at the moment, I understand that and I'm counting on me to get them later. Do you know what we're talking about? How many cars have been forfeited by the police judges over the past year? Are there indeed such large differences? Maybe the soup doesn't turn out to be as hot as it gets served? How does the number of confiscations relate to the figures for previous years? Do they rise or descend? What is the result of this and how does it relate to previous years? Finally, police judges still do not have the opportunity to see how many traffic fines a defendant has accumulated in the past. Of course, that could also help with the punishment measurement. Apparently, there's no record of that anywhere. Will you solve that problem, too? If so, what steps will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u12	As you yourself say, the penalty measure belongs to the discretion of the judge, whose task it is to weigh each case brought to his attention individually and to give an opinion on the appropriate sanction for the offence committed by the offender in honour and conscience. I would also like to remind you that the judiciary is independent of the principle of separation of powers. As far as road traffic offences are concerned, the court has a broad framework for deciding the most appropriate sanctions for the perpetrators of the crimes to be tried. I refer to the law of 16 March 1968 on road traffic police. In it, the main sanctioning of traffic offences is mainly aimed at fines and their immediate collection. In addition, the law also provides for other forms of punishment, ranging from the obligation to install an alcohol lock and cancellations of the right to direct to even the deprivation of liberty in the event of overlapping and repetition of traffic offences. In the case of repeated offences, therefore, more severe penalties have been introduced, including imprisonment and confiscation of the vehicle. The legal framework for the immobilisation and confiscation of vehicles is specifically defined in Articles 50 to 54a of the Road Traffic Act. In the event of the imposition of an appropriate penalty for road traffic offences, the court may also impose the immobilisation and confiscation of the vehicle as an additional penalty. It is also possible to mobilise and forfeit the vehicle in all cases where the right to drive is temporarily suspended. So, as Minister of Justice, I cannot share Touring's view. No statistics are available on the number of Audi A6s forfeited. I would like to refer to the Minister of Finance for the possible proceeds of the number of cars forfeited. As I indicated, the main sanctioning of traffic offences is aimed at fines. Anyone who commits a traffic offence will receive a proposal from the police for immediate collection. If it is not paid, the King's Attorney may propose an amicable settlement by means of an order to pay the fine. In the event of late payment, the case shall be brought before the police judge by the Public Prosecutor. It follows, therefore, that in the event of a timely payment of the immediate recovery or the amicable settlement, the criminal proceedings shall lapse and the case shall be definitively closed without the intervention of a police judge. At the level of the court, however, information may be available on any amicable settlement that may be dealt with on a case-by-case basis. In the case of repeated infringements, the court could include the number of prior friendly settlements in the consideration of whether or not to subpoena the parties concerned before the police judge.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for the answer with a refreshment of the entire penal arsenal. However, that is not the point in the story. You're right that the judge has to decide for himself. That's his job. We must not interfere with that. What we can do, however, is to amend and revise legislation here and there where necessary. Road safety is an important aspect. The confiscation is in many cases optional. One might consider making that punishment mandatory in some cases. Punishments are more severe in the event of recidivism, as you said. We should be able to apply a mandatory penalty there. That choice must be made. I think it's an interesting thought trail to investigate. After all, we know that the numbers of repeated accidents are not so low. The police judge is not always aware of previous convictions, because the criminal record has not always been updated. People don't always know what the convictions have been. That's the pain point. We need to work on that. You also say that most of the work is pecuinary. I think taking someone's car is also a pecuriary measure, which may have more effect than a fine. After all, we know that the collection of penalty fines is not going to be optimal today, and I am glad that we will now do something about it. If the inning cannot be optimized, it is always interesting to see a different thought trail. One can compare that to taking a little child's toys. That punishment senses that child immediately, while, if you take his allowance, he will feel the penalty only if he wants to buy something. Maybe that thought trail should be looked at.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u14	Question No 247 by Mrs Özlem Özen is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u15	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Frédéric and I are, as you will have seen, from the same region and we are bringing up the same problems. This has already been the case for some time: the infrastructure of the courthouse is in a rather advanced state of degradation. Some work has already been undertaken in the past, but the resources granted so far were too modest to allow the deterioration to be halted in full acceleration. Some rooms had to be closed for security reasons. This could, in the long run, affect the whole building. Beyond a major infrastructure problem, it is the exercise of judicial activity as a whole, as far as the Verviers region is concerned, which is hampered here. In order to maintain a local justice system, accessible to the citizen – I understand that it was also the wish with the reform of the judicial landscape as we endorsed it under the previous legislature – it seems to me essential to ensure the functioning of services based in Verviers, although this former district is now part of the judicial district of Liège. I therefore hope that you will consider this issue in its entirety. Minister, in what way do you intend to overcome the important problems concerning the Verviers courthouse? Do you have a study of what work should be done? Do you already have any schedule elements about the work, which you could communicate to us? What budget can be allocated according to the needs that will be expressed, for the guarantee of local justice in Verviers?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u16	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the same dramatic problem, which is not solely related to the Verviers courthouse. Mr Minister, if you do not know the beautiful Verviet region, in the east of Belgium, Mrs Jadin and I would be happy to invite you. Make sure you have boots or a suitable combination and a helmet for visiting the courthouse. I went there exactly a year ago. I invited my parliamentary colleagues from all sides, because this is a practical and non-political debate, a fundamental issue for the public services of the Verviers district. I have been able to see myself, who is far from being a handyman, the extraordinary danger that people who frequent this courthouse - professional actors but also those who are litigants - and the problems they face. There are serious problems of old age: huge cracks, unusable rooms and outsourced services. Decisions were made to store in the building located in Crafarue – temporarily – the archives that were in the attic of the courthouse as they threatened to fall into the lower floors. Some hearings are also held in this building, which poses some organizational problems due to the city's dispersal of courtrooms. Another commercial building, sis rue Xhavee in Verviers, was rented to store the archives that were located in the basement of the courthouse. Thus, the archives of the attic threatened to collapse and those of the cellars were covered with mushrooms and mould. All this is seen and photographed by the regional press. On 22 April, the courthouse inaugurated its new secure cell block. The prisoners' cells and the council chamber are there. Normally, the block should be able to accommodate up to 18 inmates; currently, it has only 5 blocks instead of 9. According to some reports in the local press, there would be very little chance that the renovation of the courthouse would begin in 2016, as originally planned. Indeed, the construction site is colossal and the problems of infrastructure continue to accumulate. Moreover, it would appear that the project to purchase or rent space in the new building built by T.Palm, located right in front of the courthouse, constitutes a file that is no longer in progress. I therefore put a question to your excellent colleague from the Régie des Bâtiments, whom I and Mrs Jadin will follow step by step in this matter. At the moment, it is becoming difficult to do justice at Verviers again, which seems particularly challenging to us. Minister, can you assure us of your willingness to see the work in the Verviers courthouse evolve? Can you guarantee the will to maintain an effective judicial tool and the investments that go hand in hand with Verviers? What do you intend to do to improve the accessibility of court places and to improve the working conditions of judicial staff? How long can we expect the situation to improve? What initiatives do you intend to take, in close cooperation with Mr Jambon, to find solutions to this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say out of report that I know the Verviet region well enough for having worked very hard with the colleagues in Liège. We met frequently in Stavelot or Verviers. However, I did not know the details of the building you mentioned to me. The problems related to the accommodation of the Vervietian courts are well known to my services. In collaboration with the Régie des Bâtiments, some measures have already been taken to provide additional temporary space to house mainly archives - in a former Finance building located in Crafarue and in a rented building, the former Manuubles establishments. Subject to confirmation by the Régie des Bâtiments, this space is scheduled to be made available in March 2015. In the meantime, DGOJ's Infrastructure Directorate has already implemented the shelving and committed the necessary budgets. Requests for tenders for the relocation of archives are being drafted. To the extent that the problems are related to the accommodation of services, proposals for structural solutions must come from the Régie des Bâtiments. A working group comprising representatives of the Board, the Infrastructure Directorate of the FPS Justice and the local judicial authorities has been set up within this framework. As for the study of the work to be carried out, a brief presentation of the work was proposed to the members of the working group, but a full report was not submitted. My colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments will be more able to give you a precise answer to this question. As far as the other issues are concerned, as you have already pointed out, I can only refer you to my colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. I promise I will work with him in the best possible conditions so that Verviers does not suffer too much delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm concluding two things. There is a desire to put the judicial infrastructure in order in Verviers in connection with the reform of the judicial landscape. You are quite right to say that needs have been expressed by your department. I therefore take it from the answer you have given us that there will therefore be follow-up on the guarantee of on-site infrastructure. It's a good thing, and I'm glad. As part of this reform of the judicial landscape, it is also necessary to be able to give members of the Judicial Order (officials, etc.) a period in which they can expect to work under adequate conditions. I will also address this question to your colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answer. I wonder if I'm not starting to get deaf because I haven't heard the same thing as Mrs Jadin! I have heard that a number of transitional and temporary remedies will be applied to accommodate archives and meetings, but I have not heard a firm commitment to the work to be undertaken and its funding. I know that this is the responsibility of the minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, but I think that the Minister of Justice is also concerned. I would not like the priority of the choices that will be made to ignore a reality in some parts of the country because the concerns are not always the same here and there! Therefore, know that we will be, the majority and the opposition, extremely attentive to the fact that we do not abandon a borough which is already clearly impoverished. Ms. Jadin wondered about the prison, but it was closed because the detainees could pass their hands through the walls, outwards! We have serious concerns about the future of the public service in the area of justice in Verviers. Even if you do not hold the purse cords, you are responsible for justice in this country!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u20	Mr. Speaker, Minister, under the previous legislature, the federal government endorsed the Masterplan 3 infrastructure project, which your predecessor, Ms. Turtelboom, had developed. It included the project to rebuild the prison in Verviers. As Mr. Frédéric has just explained, the prison in Verviers had to be closed, three or four years ago, by the mayor of the time because of the condition of the building. It could no longer guarantee the safety of those who worked there and those who were incarcerated. Under the previous legislature, it was decided to rebuild the prison on the same site because the enclosures had been properly fitted out by the services of the Régie des Bâtiments and corresponded to the current security standards. This new prison would have the same capacity, that is, 300 people. Minister, what interests me is how you will deal with this extremely important issue for our region. I would like to point out two essential elements: firstly, the judicial infrastructure which will still be installed in Verviers following the reform of the judicial landscape; secondly, as you know, there is a judicial district of Eupen in the German language where there is no prison. It will therefore be necessary to have one in the region anyway. Do you maintain this reconstruction decision on the old site, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, the dossier of Verviers prison is indeed part of Masterplan 3. The previous government had agreed in principle to continue the analysis of Masterplan 3 in terms of feasibility and necessity. This work must continue, as provided for in the government agreement. So for now I can only give a generic answer to the question, as I did last week about the Leopoldsburg prison. I cannot therefore extend myself precisely to the risk of giving the impression of wanting to advantage one region rather than another. The government agreement is generic in this respect and I cannot therefore provide you with more information on this specific issue. Nevertheless, I will keep you informed of future developments as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answer. I've been this file for a long time! I know that, as a result of this decision, since the Department of Justice has already expressed its needs per square metre and has transmitted them to the services of the Régie des Bâtiments, they have already begun the studies necessary to know the needs per square metre of this new prison and the time within which it will be built. Then it will be up to the government to choose the type of market: alternative financing, European market, etc. But obviously, it is important to come back as soon as possible to the content of this Masterplan, the infrastructure and the investments that will still have to be made for justice in this country. I will not fail to return to this matter at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u23	Minister, in the FPS Justice staff, the rumour is that some of the fixed-term contracts will not be renewed. The persons concerned are currently awaiting confirmation of this news and would like to know whether their position is concerned. My questions are quite simple, though multiple. Can you confirm this information, Minister? Can you elaborate on this decision, if any? I would also like to know what criteria will be used to determine the contracts that will be renewed and those that will not be renewed? Is a study conducted on the personnel needs of the various services? Are the performance of the various staff members concerned being examined? Within which time will the persons whose contract will not be renewed be informed? Will it be possible for them to argue on the need to maintain their function? In the case of a non-renewal, will they remain in a recruitment reserve for the remainder?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u24	Minister, after the announcement of the cuts in your department's operating budgets, we learned emphatically that a decision not to renew all the CSDs in prisons, including the Paifve Social Defence Institution, was communicated to the institutions on 24 October by the management committee of your department. Do you confirm this information? If so, how many contracts in total will not be renewed? Which institutions are specifically concerned, up to how many contracts and which function profiles are affected? When would the latest contracts expire? Have you assessed the impact of such a measure on the proper functioning of institutions and on ensuring respect for the fundamental rights of detained and/or interned persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u25	Minister, on October 24, 2014, the P&O Justice Steering Committee communicated the decision – and this is not a rumor – that fixed-term contracts in correctional and social welfare institutions would not be renewed. On the other hand, you have recently stated in committee that, given the cycle of transfer of officers between prison closures and the opening of new prisons, there are, for the moment, too many staff with DG PPE, but at the same time there is a lack of staff in other institutions. Mr. Minister, I think your finding of overstaffing is somewhat optimistic. Have you ever been able to identify those in need and those in excess in the various prisons and social defence institutions? How many CSD contracts should not be renewed? Are these all fixed-term or non-term contracts? Which establishments will be affected and up to how many jobs? Is there no need to wait for a complete review and full circuitization of the new prisons before taking the decision not to renew the contracts? Is it not possible to put people on the job and re-engage in the coming weeks or months? How can we ensure that all tasks will always be completed without the renewal of these contracts?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the closure of the recruitments decided by the government on 10 September and the savings which the Justice FPS must make from the staff appropriations, the Justice FPS Management Committee has decided that certain fixed-term contracts ending this calendar year may not be extended, on the basis of an in-depth and individualised analysis. The main focus is on functions within prisons and central services. On the other hand, this decision does not apply to members of the staff of the courts who will be in the jurisdiction of the Communities as from 1 January 2015, as part of the Sixth State Reform. In view of the transfer of the budgets as provided for in the financing law and on the basis of the agreement obtained from each of the Communities, it was possible to renew the fixed-term employment contracts of these staff beyond 1 January 2015. It was explained to the trade union organisations at the last high-level consultation committee held on 24 October that each fixed-term contract due to expire would be subject to a thorough review by the SPF Management Committee. This review will take into account several criteria such as the type of function held, the key function, the duration, the quality of the services, the service where the services are performed. The approach will be individualized. Replacement contracts do not fall under this measure and will continue until the basis for their award (e.g., career interruption staff members or, for example, 4/5 time) changes. The FPS Justice is committed to communicating decisions on whether or not to renew their contract as soon as possible. If they have been engaged on the basis of a reservation formed during a statutory examination, they will be reinstated in that reservation and will retain all their rights as winners of that reservation. In total, this was a limited number of contracts. During a trade union consultation we had on November 4, the figure of 33 contracts due between 2014 and 2016 was quoted. I come to the question of Mr Massin, who was tabled this morning and who was attached to the other two questions. It is a tradition that I did not know but which I very much appreciate in this committee. Mr Massin, I think you will not be satisfied with my provisional answer. Your reading of the answer I gave at our last meeting is a little optimistic. I said that in some prisons there were too many staff. I did not say that there were too many staff with DG PPE. In some prisons, there are too many staff and I said that we could not move personnel from Lantin to Leuze-en-Hainaut because it is too far away. It is therefore necessary to manage this imbalance, which is, among other things, the result of the closure of Verviers prison. This overabundance must be managed in some prisons. On the one hand, we will do so through a better allocation of staff to the extent possible. On the other hand, this excess of staff will be automatically settled by pre-pension leave, etc. I therefore do not believe that this overabundance of staff will be of long duration. For the rest, I can come back to this on the occasion of a new question from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u27	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, thank you for all these very comprehensive answers. I hear, and the last points have made me think again, that all this has still been done with a method, in a predictable way, and that there has been a concertation. This is obviously not easy for those concerned whose contract is not renewed, of course. I also understand that with some departures, some deficiencies could perhaps be filled in the near future, depending on the localities concerned. That's what I'm holding back. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u28	Mr President, I am far from sharing my colleague's optimism.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u29	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u30	Mr Minister, first of all, you have not answered all my questions, in particular the question of the impact on the proper functioning of institutions and on the respect for the fundamental rights of certain detained or interned persons. On the specific case of Paifve, I had no answer. In its policy statement, this government is committed to making effective, in particular, the law on internees, which we applauded; but when reading the letter that was sent to the institutions, and in response to the fears of Paifve's staff, we wonder how you will achieve this goal. I think that the question that we are raising here is, if necessary, a reflection of the nonsense of linear savings measures. You're part of a government that made this decision, so you're the victim, just like we are. I want to leave this card with you, and to tell you that in any case, you will find us as your allies, Minister, to claim with this government that, like some scientific and cultural institutions, an exception be made for the Department of Justice and precisely on that aspect. Taking a linear economy measure, in this case, without knowing the social and human consequences, not only for the workers but also for the inmates or the internees, seems to me to augurs for problems that would otherwise be more serious than your government would then cause if it persisted in these linear savings measures. So I am telling you, and I am telling you again, Minister, you will find us at your side in the demand for a review of this linear economy decision. I believe that the stakes are fundamental here so that, I repeat, you will find us at your side in this claim. I will come back to the impact of this measure on the proper functioning of the institutions, because I have not had an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u31	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, thank you for your answers. Sorry for the late arrival of my question, yet tabled Monday, just before the holiday of November 11. Too bad I can't send you the questions by e-mail: I have to go through the services of the Chamber. I will allow myself to return to you later. Indeed, beyond the elements that you mention, namely 33 contracts, that some would be terminated and that commitments would be made in other places, depending on the places with supernumeraries or deficiencies, the situation would merit further analysis. In fact, it seems strange and perhaps unpleasant to me for those concerned to observe that certain employment contracts will not be renewed while other prisons are considering new commitments. Beyond this, what worries me is the continuity of the public service. As you have spoken of a thorough review of each of the files, both in terms of duration, quality, nature, services, institutions, I hope that there will not be some difficulties within one or the other correctional institution, especially given that in some of them only one or two supervisors are planned for the entire wing. Such conditions lead to the hardness of the work and even to its dangerousness, which I hope it will be possible to avoid.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u32	Questions 286, 287 and 288 by Mr Maingain are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u33	Mr President, Minister, I do not intend to allow you to give the same answer as in plenary, but some very specific questions on the ordinary operating appropriations have not yet been addressed in the questions you have answered in plenary and, of course, I only wish to answer those specific questions. The deficits in the ordinary operating appropriations are very clear from a memorandum from the FPS Justice of 28 October to the Management Committee, which calls the alarm: "all ordinary operating appropriations for 2014 have been drawn up'. The examples given are very clear. Because of the failure to pay or late payment, companies have gone over the top. The note of the FPS Justice explicitly mentions a well-known Ghent scientific bookstore known mainly in legal circles and where contributions from you have been published, but other legal publishers are also in serious trouble. There are also high debts at DPLP, outstanding debts are up to 12 million euros, interest has already been paid on this. It is also said that we do not actually have a budget to pay for gas, water and electricity, only for stamps there is a budget this year. This situation is in addition to all the other problems with the invoices, to which you have already replied, with experts and staffing problems. My specific questions on normal operating appropriations are as follows. Can you confirm the figures to the Management Committee in the memo of 28 October and confirm the contents of the note? What action has the Management Committee taken on this note? I also asked what initiatives you would take to recover additional budgets. You replied to that in plenary, and I assume that this also applies to this budget. You said you could clear blocked budgets and draw on a reserve of EUR 40 million. How many delays have been paid in the last three years as a result of late payment of uncontested invoices? Then there is the specific point of maintenance work, which is also addressed in this note. Justice has invested in building safety, but they also need to be maintained regularly, otherwise the systems will no longer function, and there are already a number of problems on the ground. In what way will you give the necessary answers?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u34	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, I would like to thank you for joining me in the concerns expressed by Mr Brotcorne and Mr Temmerman, to whom I was given an initial answer in plenary last Thursday. You follow me in real time, of course, because you are aware with me that there was only one working day between last Thursday and today. On that day, of course, we worked very hard. Your concerns relate to part of the backlogs identified so far, in particular permanent expenditure on the purchase of non-sustainable goods and services, which are part of the operating costs within the resources programme of the Organisational Division 56 Ordinary Jurisdictions. The internal note from which you quote is only one of the elements of the file. The main point is that the appropriate inventory is first presented. Last Thursday, I indicated that, on the basis of the figures entered in the accounting system according to my administration, a total of EUR 136 million invoices were open on 5 November. For the basic allocation to which you refer, only the normal operating costs are covered by a total of 3 578 invoices for an amount of 13 million euros. Of these, 662 invoices date from before 1 August 2014 for an amount of 5 million euros. There are 57 invoices older than 1 January 2014, but on balance there are more credit notes than debit notes. Sometimes there is good news. In addition to the inventory, I would remind you of some of the action points, without wishing to repeat myself too much, as I announced them on Thursday. What can be paid must be paid as soon as possible. The FOD will release an additional disk of credits shortly. Where possible, redistributions between basic allocations will be implemented. My administration is preparing an application for the second item, to the Minister for the Budget, to use as soon as possible the additional administrative obstacles, including the EUR 7 million you quoted, for ordinary operating costs of the Court of Justice for the discharge of arrears. Thirdly, to the extent that there are legal disputes under the backseats, this will be covered by the interdepartmental commission. Fourthly, additional resources will at the latest be claimed against the next budgetary control on the basis of detailed radiscopy. Fifthly, internal control must be strengthened. In particular, it is important to ensure that both order forms and invoices are recorded correctly and in good time. Sixthly, in addition to the increased control measures, measures are being developed to carry out appropriate reorganisations in the management of such transactions where appropriate. The safety of staff and citizens will be ensured as a matter of priority. The backseats should be cleaned as soon as possible. However, one should also be able to save on normal operating costs, including energy consumption, office supplies, stamps and internal invoicing, such as between the FPS and its own Directorate of Prison Labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u35	I note that you do not deny or contest the contents of the memo of 28 October 2014 and, more specifically, the sentence in which it is said that three companies have already gone bankrupt due to non-payment or late payment. It is an internal note and it is not your responsibility for clarity either. It is very bad that companies such as a reputable scientific publishing house in Ghent are facing severe financial difficulties due to many years of defaults. I had also asked questions about interests paid on late-payment invoices. I believe that the figure could not be communicated. I'll check it out in writing. I hope with you that the necessary budgets can be increased very quickly. As you can see, we in the opposition are always very accommodating in this respect. However, we cannot do it alone. I really hope it happens. From the legal world many signals come that the water is on their lips. The quality of service is under pressure. It is in everyone's interest that the judiciary get oxygen as soon as possible to do what it has to do: to speak justice in a qualitative way.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u36	Mr Van Hecke, I know I do not have the last word. I didn't deny something, but that doesn't mean I agree. You refer to the note and to the three companies that would have gone bankrupt. You didn't specifically ask me about that. Therefore, no specific research has been carried out. I would hate for you to distract a beam from my non-denial.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u37	Of course, Minister, you are so smart to add that, but I also understand. I did not ask you specifically, but if it had not been true, I might have expected you to have said that we should pay attention and perhaps not accept everything from that note. Of course, it's in an official document from the FPS Justice Department. The only conclusion is that we must be careful not to cause business problems due to late payments. It's also about self-employed people. It would be very bad, should that still be the cause of financial problems in certain companies in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u38	Question No 307 by Mrs Özen is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u39	Mr President, Minister, for some time now I have been picking up signals from our courts and offices about problems caused by a shortage of registry staff. Reasons for this include the period of current cases during which no appointments have taken place. We have also adopted new legislation in the Chamber, including the establishment of the family court, which is intended to save the staff of the Registry. During the start-up phase, however, there is additional work for the Registry staff. I can mention other reasons, but I shall now confine myself to these. Because of this situation, there would appear to be currently around 450 vacancies for registry staff. It is reported that in Kortrijk and Ypres there is a deficit of 30% in clerks and in Ghent there is a deficit of 25%. This is solved with shifts and mutations. The reform of the justice landscape should also make it easier than before, but the problem is acute today. In my question I also mentioned the example of a peace court where it is stated that the Registry will not be open to the hours provided for by the Code, due to a shortage of staff. That is why I am asking for your response. Is the number of vacancies not filled or not filled immediately and which I mentioned correct? Are the percentages valid in the respective courts and do you have a more complete overview? I know that you have not been Minister of Justice for so long and that you cannot solve everything at once, but I would like to ask you what measures you have taken in the meantime. What answer do you, as Minister responsible, provide to those problems that are still being identified on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u40	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the reform of the judicial landscape took place on 1 April, moving from 27 to 13 courts from first instance and maintaining the former courts as departments. The principal guardians of the jurisdictions shall be responsible for the division of staff between the Registrys. At present, there are 313 vacancies for Registrars, a large part of which fall within the jurisdiction of Brussels, which is 159, where bilingualism is required for part of the Registrar's duties. For part of these jurisdictions, a publication of vacancies was foreseen in June 2014. These selections are currently being completed. In order not to jeopardise the support to the magistrate, there is the possibility of temporarily assigning staff to the Registrar and replacing them at the base within the budgetary margins. I would like to point out that this technique is already being applied to a large part of the 313 vacancies mentioned above. I am open to the proposals of the principal directors concerned to apply this technique to the other vacancies if necessary. You mention the situation in Kortrijk and Ypres, both departments of the court of first instance West Flanders. The appointment of the Registrar's Board is 92.5 % for the full jurisdiction. As regards the court of first instance of East Flanders, the occupation standard of the Registrar's framework is currently 86.6 %. I should note that the appointment of four Registrars is currently being finalized for the latter jurisdiction. There is no doubt that, within the budgetary margins, vacancies of Registrar will be republished.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u41	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-12-54-commissie-ic016x.u42	Questions Nos 25, 26 and 27 by Mrs Temmerman are converted into written questions. Mr. Maingain didn't show up. His questions Nos 287 and 288 have been postponed. Mr Terwingen is absent. His questions Nos 369 and 376 are postponed.
