ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your presence. We will work as determined at our previous meeting. We will first hear the FEBEG, which will give us a presentation. The questions will follow. Then, Electrabel, the same way. We'll see what time it is. Finally, the CREG is also here with the whole management committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u2	I give the floor to the FEBEG.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you all for the invitation so that we can explain FEBEG's position on the very topical issue of security of supply. We have divided our presentation into a number of parts and believe that it is useful to briefly consider what FEBEG is exactly. We will then deal with the issue of security of supply and, in particular, explain what the members of FEBEG are doing to avoid shutdown. Then we are entirely at your disposal to answer all your questions. We will divide the work a little, so the three people sitting here will all take the floor. I don't know what the FEBEG is. The FEBEG has 25 effective members, as you can see on this slide. They are major players and smaller players, all of whom operate on the Belgian market. On the following slide you can see the activities of the members of the FEBEG, namely: - about 8 000 direct jobs; - 23 billion in revenue; - about 90% of gas and electricity supplies in Belgium; - as regards the production capacity of the members of the FEBEG, it amounts to around 98% in Belgium. The issue that is very topical today, for which the committee is very interested and thus also the press, is the security of supply for the coming winter. There is, of course, also the possibility of phasing out certain zones. We would like to say that we regard this as an exceptional situation, partly because of the unavailability of a number of production units. At the same time, we also have a structural problem. We have a very tight production capacity. So it is true that there is not much to be done to get into an emergency situation. How we arrived at the structural problem is closely linked to the investment climate, which has been referred to several times. This investment climate has been very unfavourable for a number of years for parties wishing to make investments in the market that can be called very important, in particular investments in production units. With regard to the investment climate, we would like to point out that we, as a federation, in temporal non-suspecto, already gave a clear message in autumn 2008 that we found that the production capacity in Belgium was becoming insufficient to ensure supply in the long term. Following the call, the Energy State General took place in June 2011, with the four energy ministers and the stakeholder group. This discussion resulted in a reference to initiatives to be implemented by the newly formed government at the end of 2011. However, we would like to examine with you in more detail how the market actually works. This is important to understand the consequences of complexity and to see who can do what to avoid the shutdown as much as possible. Mr Van den Bosch will now explain to you how the market works on the basis of slides.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u4	Mr President, Madam President, there are indeed many parties involved. Many stakeholders are involved in all cases. By observing the classical situation, we could say that, for the physical flows of electricity, the chain includes the producers, then everything that relates to transport and distribution and, finally, industrial or residential customers. However, in recent years, the situation has become much more complex, since some customers produce their own electricity – they can be individuals, but also industrialists: solar installations, wind turbines, heat pumps or cogeneration appliances. Trade flows should also be mentioned. In this regard, balance managers must manage incoming and outgoing flows. This may include the own production of the supplier or producer included in the portfolio, as well as imports or internal and external purchases in the wholesale electricity market. Outward flows of course consist of consumer consumption, exports or sales on the wholesale market. The balance manager can work for one or more suppliers. Some are linked to a large number of producers. Trade flows are invoiced by the supplier to customers, who are also responsible for informing them. This is an important detail for what will follow. Finally, Elia, with all the spare products, is responsible for the balance of the network and brings together all the balance managers present on the market. It is clear that there are many actors. The government also plays an important role in this story. The government must provide the legal framework, which I do not need to explain here, but also for all the implementing decisions and regulations that follow, and of course also for the licences, which are important for producers. The CREG, which we will be hearing later, must ensure that the rules of the game are followed. The CREG has a supervisory role throughout the market. Elia takes care of the reserves and the balancing reserves and thus plays a very important role. Elijah ensures a balanced operation of the grid. Elia's also making sure there's enough grid capacity. Elia is responsible for the balance with the suppliers. Their portfolio of purchases and sales, own production and deliveries, should be in balance. Elia is also the customer's point of contact. When, as at present, there is a discussion on security of supply, the supplier can take a number of measures. He can try to optimize his wallet and try to buy even more. Mr Schoonacker will go into this in more detail. However, the emergency planning of the government also plays an important role. Elia's strategic reserves are contracted and ready to be put into operation. In case of problems, it is ultimately the government that activates the switch-off plan. That switch-off plan will take all actions that have an impact on the market. That is why we can draw the following conclusions. It is up to the government to put the switch-off plan into effect. In the end, it is the customers, but also the suppliers, who are affected by this, because they are affected by the plan that must enter into force at that time. That plan is, in fact, completely outside the functioning of the market and does not take any account of it either. The impact on suppliers will be explained by Frank Schoonacker, Chairman of our Suppliers Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u5	Clearly, as a supplier, we are a partner in this debate. At the same time, we, like the other parties in this case, are equally concerned with this issue. We do not neglect the impact. It is important, it is indeed very large with regard to FEBEG member suppliers. First of all, it is our job to manage our portfolio; to manage, on the one hand, volatile wholesale prices and, on the other hand, to assume our contractual responsibilities, that is, we have agreed to a price with our customers, so we will provide the price promised to our customers. We have a potentially open position on the sourcing side, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we actually assume our contractual responsibilities. It is also true, and I think this has been pointed out on several occasions in this committee, that as a supplier, responsible for balance, there are market mechanisms that make it all the more important for a supplier to be in balance and to maintain its balance. The evidence is there. I think it has also been discussed in the press. The imbalance tariff at a time when the situation would be tense, this imbalance tariff is frankly high. We are clearly talking about 4,500 euros per MWh, which is about a hundred times the wholesale price at that time. On the other hand, it's not new. Already in the past, we used to deal with this kind of imbalance. As a reminder, the intraday market, the "real time" market was in the past also already capped at €3,000 the MWh. As a supplier, it is a risk that we have long known and managed, it is a balance that we are trying to maintain continuously, day and night, 24 hours a day and seven days a week. However, a situation in which a discharge should take place has as much impact on us as on the customers we feed because it is not selective. In short, we are aware of this and we are making every effort to maintain our balance because the economic consequences are quite important, also for us. Specifically, what means do we have to ensure that we can continuously maintain the balance for the whole of our customers, for our portfolio? We have a number of possibilities and they are summarized on the slide. First of all, I would like to remind you that the market conditions have been fairly specific in recent years. Our President has already pointed out that we do not see any new investments at the moment, for example in gas installations. We note that the rules that are laid down sometimes dare to change. This is not really stimulating for a sector that should ultimately be able to invest with a time horizon of typically 20 to 30 years. It is best to opt for rules that are reasonably stable and remain guaranteed for a reasonable period of time. We experienced a very substantial economic crisis in 2008 and 2009, which had a huge impact on electricity demand. That has happened beyond our control. We are not happy with that either, but it happened. Since then, we have more or less established a stabilisation of demand for electricity. We come from a period where electricity consumption typically increased by 1.3 % per year. From then on, it's stagnated. We have missed a lot of additional questions since then. On top of that, the gas plants in particular are very difficult at the moment. Gas plants are the ideal complement, the ideal backup, because they are very flexible once they turn. Certainly the open cycle units can start up very flexibly, precisely to cope with the intermittent nature of some renewable energy sources. It is very difficult at present, not only in Belgium, for the simple reason that, as a result of certain events in other parts of the world, a lot of coal has been made available to the European production market. As a result, foreign coal plants run before the Belgian gas plants run. In addition, there is the exceptional standstill of a number of nuclear units, which must certainly be taken into account in winter. I think that the Members of Electrabel will come back to that later. In my view, no one can rejoice at the sudden disappearance of half the nuclear production capacity, which represents about a quarter of the stable production capacity in our country. The challenge has already been mentioned: the reception of interference, the reception of the fact that, for example, sun and wind are not predictable in the longer term. In the short term, this predictability is there, but we cannot quickly build power stations, in case there would be no wind, in order to quickly create electricity. At that particular moment that is a bit difficult. Moreover, we note the following in relation to solar energy. This isn't a judgment of value, it's just a determination. Solar energy cannot be stocked, or that is still very difficult and/or expensive at the moment. In Belgium solar energy is not currently contributing to the winter peak. It is just during the winter peak that we are faced with certain problems. If problems occur, it is typically between 17:00 and 20:00, so when it is dark in winter. At that time we cannot count on a contribution from PV cells, which is important in our country. In this context, we must now do what is possible and impossible to ensure that we keep our portfolio in balance. As member suppliers and also producers of FEBEG, we also do the following. We have maintenance plans and also check, for example, the availability of units. It goes without saying that any maintenance that can be brought forward or abandoned in one way or another, so that it doesn't have to happen in the winter, will also be effectively postponed. We have made every effort to ensure that all the means of production available to us are available to the maximum extent possible. If the worst happens, which we do not count on and which we certainly do not want to provoke, then some of our plants are equipped with the so-called black-start capacity, which enables us to start in the dark, so that these installations can start out of nowhere, without any external resources, independently and autonomously, on Elia's instructions. We are therefore making every effort, if the worst happens again, not to be prepared at the moment to restore supplies in the country as quickly as possible. In this respect, we are doing everything possible to ensure that production capacity will be available at the most and at the right moments in this country. Belgium is not an island, we know that. Elia has also made very important efforts to significantly increase interconnection capacity. We all have an interest in seeing to what extent there is still potential. This also means, in concrete terms, that we do not see Belgium as an island and that we, as suppliers and balance-holders, look for production capacity abroad. So we are buying energy elsewhere, especially in those neighbouring countries where there is currently a surplus of production. In addition to our own production, we also conclude purchase contracts on the Belgian market. We have traders operating in this market, from which we can buy natural gas, CO2 emission allowances necessary for CO2 emissions from our production plants, and also electricity, should we at some point have insufficient capacity or would we choose to buy electricity from other producers. It goes without saying that, for the coming winter period, we are gradually closing down our supplies completely. We have committed ourselves, through contracts, to deliver to all our customers; the energy we will then have to deliver, we are currently purchasing. We not only buy gas and electricity from other operators. We also have indirect producers. There are a lot of decentralised producers. There are many people with cogeneration units and the like who also have production facilities at their disposal, with which they supply heat to their own production processes, but on which we also count in our portfolio to supply ourselves in case of emergency. We also encourage them to be maximum available at the critical moments. It is true that we have discussed the sourcing, the supply, the provisioning, first of all. We would also like to emphasise very clearly that we as suppliers have not since this winter's problems have also developed products to encourage customers to consume less and to shift consumption to an earlier or later time. For example, cooling systems can be frozen deeper later at a certain time and then freeze them a little less later. We can also perfectly ask for water treatment plants to be pumped sooner or later. So there are many processes in the industry where flexibility is embedded. It is only there that I am perhaps simplistic with the use of that word 'to tap into the potential'. This is a sense of awareness that we need to engage in together. In practice, some industrialists are rather reluctant to make their processes flexible. I believe that we all have an interest in encouraging the consumers of electricity, the industrial processes, to be flexible, to ask them to offer this flexibility. It goes without saying that we encourage our customers to reduce electricity consumption globally. I'll come back to that later. Since we are affected as suppliers, we are of course asking to be involved in that process. Some of our customers will be switched off. I know that Members of this House are asking for clarification on what will happen when. We ask the same question on behalf of our customers, so that on the part of demand management we could call on our customers to moderate, spread, advance or leave their consumption so that a switch-off would not be necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u6	I would still like to talk about the following. In the medium term, I would like to avoid that in the next few years, we have to come back here to explain what we are going to do to avoid winter clearing. Frank Schoonacker has explained well what suppliers and producers members of the FEBEG are already doing, in the short term, to avoid as much as possible unloading: by working on the own means of production and on the measures we can take vis-à-vis our customers, by offering specific products to manage their demands, etc. The other market players, the government, Elia, etc., are busy taking on their responsibilities. But what is missing today, in our opinion, is the notion of "whole". As a FEBEG, we ask to be more proactively involved in the process. Together, we are responsible for this problem and everyone has to do what he or she has to do and what he or she can do. In this context, FEBEG wants to make a clear statement. We want to help find additional solutions. In particular, the extent to which interconnection capacity can be increased can be considered in the short term. Today, mostly commercial borders are mentioned, but perhaps, in extreme need, the technical boundaries can also be used to import a little more capacity or energy from abroad. We also want to actively explore the potential for sensitisation of demand. It is also very important to coordinate communication vis-à-vis the market and customers. If each person communicates with his or her own information, there may be a lack of clarity or consistency with the customers for whom this remains very complicated. The man on the street is not aware of everything that is happening on the market given the complexity that Marc has just explained to you. It is therefore very important that we draw up a communication plan together and agree on who says what and when. Committing to doing so together will also be a plus for those who are concerned today and for whom things are not very clear. We need to coordinate to avoid people staying "in the dark". This is absolutely to be avoided! So I'm gonna make a call. We want to participate fully in this, but let us do it together, not each from its own angle. As far as the medium term is concerned, I would like to return to the messages that FEBEG has already given in the past. More recently, before the summer, in our memorandum following the elections, we have identified a number of areas of problem and also put forward a number of solutions. It is important that we take that line again in order to establish a more structurally stable framework for energy supplies in Belgium. In this respect, we once again reach out to all other stakeholders to work on this together. Thank you for your attention. We are very curious about your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we now put a few questions to the three gentlemen, preferably one questioner per group.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u8	Mr President, I would like to thank the gentlemen for their clear presentation, which gave us a better picture of the position of producers and suppliers in this story. I take it this isn't the easiest position today. When I look at how the system works, I wonder if you will not be one of the biggest parties to the game in the end. We have balance responsibilities to ensure that they deliver to their customers what they require, for which there must also be sufficient capacity in the market, so that supply and demand can strike a good balance. I can imagine that you also have decentralised production in your portfolio, that you also have to buy on the market and that you have customers who may be switched off. How do you estimate the effect of the shutdown plan? That is my specific question. I can imagine that as a balancer you can achieve a good balance, or that your members can do so, but that this balance is disturbed by intervention from others: some of your decentralised production units are going out and some of your customers are going out. Does that mean that the incentive of 4 500 euros per megawatt hour, which you have to pay involuntarily suddenly, because Elijah decides to switch off, will put a huge pressure on you? What's the effect of that? Will you try to recover that afterwards? Secondly, it is about capacity. The solution with the strategic reserve was the least bad solution in the short term. What do you see happening in the long term? After all, I can imagine that as we do not receive any additional investment in production, on which we have control, that will become increasingly a problem and that more and more power stations will end up in that strategic reserve. How do you see that evolving? How should the link be made to the capacity market? It is very important to know which systems we can use to ensure that capacity is as cost-effective as possible. I would like to hear a little more about that. As far as interconnection is concerned, moving towards technical boundaries: as long as it is possible to do so safely, that seems to me to be justified. But then, of course, the question remains whether that capacity is available abroad. Of course, many of your members produce not only in our country, but also in other countries, which gives them a good view of what is on the market and what may still be produced there during the winter. Can you give us a visual on that? How likely is it that capacity is in stock there? I can imagine that the producers who have power stations abroad can tell us a little more about this than we have heard from Elijah, among others, over the last few weeks. Finally, I have a question about the economic framework conditions. We know that part of the problem is the price on the market, which is simply too low for certain plants. I am thinking in particular of gas plants, but also of other power stations which do not come without support. Can you give us a look at the specific challenges facing Belgian plants vis-à-vis other countries? What are the economic conditions that make it worse or more expensive than abroad? Can you give us some examples of this? This would help to correct our investment framework in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u9	Mr. Chairman, in turn, I thank the speakers for their clarifications, which allowed us to understand the current situation. I'll only ask a few questions. You called for more coordination. At the end of your presentation, you asked for technical solutions to be found in terms of interconnection, but also in terms of public awareness. My question is very simple: who do you think should accomplish this task? Isn't it for the FEBEG to give that boost? Or should Elia take care of it? Unless it's the CREG or the Minister? Can you tell us who you had in mind? Then, for the FEBEG, who will be responsible for activation of the discharge plan? According to your lawyers, who should pay any damages suffered by people who are deprived of electricity? Finally, I cannot help but ask you the following question. You said that gas-fired power plants were severely subject to coal competition. But are not subsidies that are generously granted to other sectors of production a source of unfair competition? I am thinking in particular of alternative green energies. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u10	Mr President, I would like to thank the three gentlemen for the explanation they have given here. I will not repeat the questions that have already been asked. Ladies and gentlemen, you say that you will take all the measures necessary to avoid a cut-off. Of course, we can only welcome this attitude and we expect you to take those measures. You have already listed a number of measures, including the black-starting plants. Other options include the purchase of production capacity abroad, the conclusion of purchase contracts to meet demand, including from other suppliers, decentralised production, encouraging customers to reduce consumption or to adapt to consumption and finally demand control. You have put that quite generally, but can you also have concrete figures on that? How much capacity is it possible? What's the worst case and best case scenario? On the basis of figures, I would like to get a little more insight into that. In your final conclusion, you say that you face huge challenges and that you can only cope with them if all partners work together. In the short term, but certainly in the medium term, you call for more coordination with all the partners involved. We can only support that. We, too, believe that we should work more closely with stakeholders. We are in favour of this in an energy pact. However, when you formulate that call now, it seems as if you now feel that you are too little involved. Has there been little coordination so far? Are you sufficiently involved in advance as a result of the problems that arise this winter? Are you in certain working groups or have you consulted with other partners, such as Elijah or the Secretary of State? I would like to know how you are already involved in the problems of the coming winter and how you estimate this, whether this involvement is too much or too little and what can be improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u11	Mr President, I would like to thank the three gentlemen for their explanation. The Open Vld fraction has always tried to focus on non-activating the shutdown plan. The previous committee meetings dealt mainly with this issue. I am glad that someone here is finally saying that the opportunity is not so great and that they are trying to use as much capacity as possible. Gentlemen, your request for cooperation between all stakeholders is a fair question. As mayor of a small municipality, I also note that the communication of the Interior and the Province to the municipal authorities is certainly not optimal. We assumed that your institutions were already involved. This must be done now in order to raise awareness in the short term, but also in the long term. In your plans you are also talking about CHP and biomass plants. Mr Patricia Ceysen asked the same question last week: how can they be deployed if they are also included in the exit plan? That doesn't make any sense. There are CHPs and biomass plants that will not be on the grid because they are in the first or second disk. That doesn't make any sense. I hope you will discuss that with the DNBs. So my first question is: how will you do that? I assume that the planned margins will also put pressure on suppliers' margins. So I have a long-term question for you. Are you negotiating with the DNBs to deploy smart meters? I do not mean quarter of an hour, but yet meters with which electricity consumption is measured at regular intervals at the level of the living room, so that each user can choose when to use what rate. This may be a long-term solution. This will create a system in which the consumer pays, just as the environment pays for the polluter. So far, my two specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u12	Mr President, first of all I would like to say that I almost fell off my chair just now. Some Members of this House are certainly turning things upside down. I would like to point out to Mr Wollants that the major victims of this whole thing are just the users, and I am referring in particular to families and SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u13	The users are indeed one of the major victims, but so are the small suppliers and producers, because it is just those who have ensured that users can get the best prices on the market. So let us not shoot at those who have made the market so flexible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u14	Mr President, I do not wish to open the debate, but I could not stop for a moment. I was pleased to note that FEBEG would also like to help resolve the damage that is being caused. I have three specific questions about this. Firstly, I have heard you say that you want to encourage customers to use rationally, that you want to help to make customers more aware. How do you see that? How does that work out in concrete terms? Have you made any arrangements about this with each other and with the suppliers? Have you guys gotten organized on this yet? Can you give us a more concrete explanation? Secondly, you have also said that you can still use the spare capacity. That sounds hopeful. Then we want to know how much that is about. How much is that gonna get? Third, you said you wanted to help me find the interconnectivity. Are there any concrete proposals? What do you think that's gonna do? They sounded to me like very good intentions, but we would also like to hear something concrete about these three matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u15	Madam President, Mr President, I would like to thank the gentlemen for their presentation. What has struck me most is a statement, which I endorse and share, namely that all players on the field must do everything they can to avoid a shutdown. The fact that the Federal Parliament has had to deal with this for several weeks now is unworthy of a prosperous country such as Belgium, so let us try to avoid it. Another statement that I have heard you make strong, and that I very much endorse, is the plea for cooperation. The slogan of our favorite Red Devil tous ensemble is just not reviewed. I fully share the plea for cooperation and coordination. However, I am getting a little nervous because we have been hearing similar presentations for four weeks in a row from people who say that we should avoid that cut-off, that we should do everything and work together. Then I wonder whether there will be no Secretary of State for Energy, even in current cases, to bring all those people of good will, that coalition of the willing, around the table. Surely there are seven days in a week where there can be a meeting, a coordination and cooperation? I would like to hear all these pleas for cooperation, but there must now be a Secretary of State who brings people together, otherwise we will have hearings in February in which people will say that they did everything they could to avoid a cut-off and that they wanted to work together, but they did not succeed. I don't think that's the intention. So much for my analysis of the message that I support, for the sake of clarity, and which I hope will be followed up by the Secretary of State, who needs to hear them, first and foremost, and accept the outstretched hand. I have four elements of questions and concrete comments. I partially agree with the slide in which you tried to outline the situation. You say there's nothing new under the sun, but they're exceptional situations. You refer to your cry for help in 2008, as there has been a cry from the CREG, from Elia, from Ecolo-Green and from many parties since 2008 and even before. There is a need for legal certainty. I agree that the situation is to some extent predictable. With which I disagree, your statement is that the situation today is exceptional and, to some extent, unpredictable due to the great unavailability of the nuclear park. I would also like to address you, because FEBEG is, after all, an interest organisation, not only from suppliers but also from producers. The problems of Objective 3 and Tihange 2 have existed for two years. So these problems are not new. Has FEBEG played a sufficient role in this with its members? After all, the situation is not that exceptional. Actually, precious time has been lost. The second question I would like to put has already been put very sharply by Mr Clarinval. Who is actually responsible in the event of a shutdown? Who's gonna pay? Our group also believes that compensation is due to people on contracts. Last week we discussed the example of colleague Metsu's dentist. If he's switched off, he can't work, but he does have a contract and should be able to do his job. Who's responsible for that? I understand that it is a legal gaggle of producers and suppliers. You are in fact uniting both of them, so I can imagine that this will bring exciting debates within FEBEG. The people at home do not have a contract with a producer or with a plant, but with a supplier. The supplier may make every effort in the world, such as investing in green technology, and does not drop anything, unlike the producers who work with old nuclear power plants. He is also being disbanded himself, and that is unjust. I suspect that you have already considered the question of legal responsibility to the full. How can we fully address the producers who are ultimately responsible for the chaos? I suspect that the fate of the suppliers, as well as the fate of the customers, is particularly important to you in this regard. With my third and fourth question I look a little more in the long term. As far as demand management is concerned, I have already made a clear plea, because I believe that this is an important building block of a progressive and strong energy policy. Who's gonna take the lead in there? You yourself say that as suppliers you can play a role in it, by developing packages in this area and engaging with the customers, making it possible to sensitise and achieve results. At the same time, demand management is also part of the strategic reserve and Elijah is also exploring the market by examining how demand management can be managed by consumers. I don't want to be extremely rigid, but I don't think that's an ideal situation. If we believe in demand-side management as a component of an energy policy, then I think it should be made clear who is in charge of it. What are your views on this? Do you believe in complementarity? That is what I would like to hear. I fear that there will be another situation in which many people are working on the same thing, which means that the best results will not be achieved. Finally, I believe that an energy pact, which our group is also in favour of, should include, among other things, an ambitious plea for renewable energy and for energy saving. An equally important question: which market design do we really want? What technology do we want to support? How do we prevent money from being wasted because things that should not be supported still get support? Mr Wollants raised the issue of the strategic reserve. How does the strategic reserve relate to the capacity market? That's what your presentation was about. I wonder what FEBEG's attitude is to mechanisms such as the public procurement that is now running for new or non-Belgian gas plants? Do you believe that as a structural instrument for energy policy, or not? That's a question to learn. I'd like to thank you for being here. I hope that your call for cooperation and coordination will be clearly picked up by my fellow Members and by the Secretary of State. I also hope that FEBEG will urge those producers who fail and who bear a heavy responsibility to accept their responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u16	Mr President, I thank the three speakers. I would like to make a preliminary remark. I jumped somewhat when I read in your slides that both customers and suppliers and system operators are subject to the release plan that does not take into account the functioning of the market. It's a bit of the hospital making fun of charity! If the discharge plan is activated, it is precisely because the market does not function optimally. I won't say it's some blackout denial to think that the release plan almost looks like a whim that's activated. We know why it is activated, if it has to be activated at any given time, and we also know all the steps that can be taken to avoid this release plan. If it is to be activated, it is because the market has not worked optimally. You have described several measures that you want to take and that you are in the process of developing. Have you quantified the additional capacity that these measures could generate? The issue of liability has been completely avoided. However, contractually, there are a number of obligations. What is your opinion on this issue? Who can ultimately be responsible in case of discharge? To the colleague who has just spoken, I would like to say that there is coordination since there is also contact with the Secretary of State and the various ministers of the federated entities responsible for energy. Although Mr Calvo has the impression that it is improvisation, it seems to me that he is well aware of the fact that the Secretary of State is doing everything possible to ensure that coordination can actually take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u17	Mr. Chair, I thank the speakers for their presentations. Like other colleagues, I was also shocked by some passages, including the one on slide 7 where you indicate that suppliers would be subject to the release plan. I do not repeat what my colleague, Mrs Matz, has just said, but I do think that this is the world backwards. It is the producers who, by underinvesting in gas-fired power plants, for example, and by favouring the nuclear option at all costs because it brings more money, have put us in a situation of shortage today. We have to shoulder our responsibilities. So I find it a little easy to postpone the fault by saying, "We, suppliers, we are suffering the relief plan." No! You are responsible for a situation that requires today to consider a relief plan. How can this sentence be interpreted if it is not as a way of saying "here, if there is damage, we will not accept it because we are just undergoing this plan"? Like a number of colleagues, I would like you to clarify your position on compensation for damage that might occur if the release plan is activated. Will the suppliers you represent assume their contractual responsibilities and indemnify consumers who suffer damage? Do you intend to force these consumers to take legal action to try to get that damage - with all the imbalances that this will bring because a small consumer does not always have the means to take legal action? I would like a clear answer to that question. I come to another sentence that you said and which also shocked me. You say that "we have to deal with the situation together." Together? Isn't that precisely your role? You represent the various suppliers. However, we are in a market situation where the various suppliers do what suits them according to their profit imperatives. If you group them together, perform this function and group them together so as to avoid a situation of risk of shortage. You are the collective of these suppliers, play your part! That suppliers, together, assume their responsibilities. When I hear a representative of Electrabel - we will have the opportunity to talk about it after - who says that he is not responsible for the supply of electricity in Belgium, I wonder about the responsibility you assume to meet the energy needs of our country. I have one more specific question. We're going to be at this risk of shortage. I assume, since you have 98% of the producers who supply the Elia network, that you have already made estimates, forecasts of those, among the different producers or suppliers you represent, who are most likely to be in a situation where they will not be able to fulfil their contractual obligations to provide consumers, compared to what is in in and out. Can you tell us, unless you did not make this estimate, but I suppose you did, which producers are in a more difficult situation at this level?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u18	Mr President, I would like to join my colleagues and thank the speakers. I understand that FEBEG is an association representing the whole market. However, I would like to clarify the exact role and responsibilities of FEBEG. In what way and how does it intervene in the subject that concerns us today? On the other hand, I have heard the words "together", "responsible", etc. But if I stand on the consumer side, after paying for our energy as we have done so far, there is something to be very disappointed with: the cooperation and solidarity of all is required, while we deserve better than what we are being served at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u19	I would like to go back to the notion of responsibility. You are, producers and suppliers, supposed to guarantee and honour the contracts you have entered into with your customers. You are responsible for the fact that all clients are provided in a timely manner with respect to their own request. You must offer, guarantee and honour these contracts. The small sentence of your presentation (slide 7), which some have already quoted, really raises a question. It feels like you're putting your hands in front of your eyes and saying, "It's not me, it's the others." I would like you to clarify this issue of contractual liability for your customers. We know that you have to guarantee balance and that, without a guarantee of balance, the price would be very expensive. This has been planned by the Secretary of State. We can also ask ourselves the question of compensation. How far are your responsibilities going if you don't honor your contracts? We would like very clear details in this regard. Then you told us about the lack of legal certainty for investments in Belgium. Legislation has evolved in this area. In parallel, you shut down gas-fired power plants only for reasons of profitability. When I say "you," it's not to name you personally, but rather those you represent. Is this market logic legitimate in terms of your contractual liability? Such a triangular relationship raises questions. You also talked about ways to reduce demand. In particular, you mentioned a technological potential that would be on the consumer side. Thus, the power of the refrigerator could be reduced, so that it could withstand two hours of power outage. Has this technical lead vis-à-vis large or medium-sized consumers been properly explored by suppliers? Is it still exploitable in order to reduce energy consumption today? Do you think it is up to you to dig this track or is it up to the SPF Economy or the GRD? Anyway, who should be responsible? I agree with you when you say, who says what and when? The importance of the message that we will deliver to citizens, SMEs and the self-employed and the importance of communication coordination were highlighted. I will not judge the initiatives taken by certain suppliers but, as a public official, it seems to me that chaotic communication should be avoided and, above all, individual communication from certain suppliers who could simply guarantee the balance of their own portfolio. They would alert their customers when it is the balance of their business portfolio that is at risk and it is not at all the danger of a waste disposal plan, i.e. a peak of consumption and a lack of energy. Coordination must be comprehensive and not specific to each supplier in terms of its customers and its trade balance. The communication must focus on the interests of the whole country and on the need to avoid any relief plans. In this regard, has the Secretary of State ever contacted you about a comprehensive communication and how to communicate with all your clients with the same message? Has this coordination already taken place? Are you ready to participate?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u20	Mr President, Madam President, I would like to begin with the most pressing and concrete question, namely the question of responsibility and possible damage. I would like to start with that, because I have heard the question several times. The customers all have a contract with their supplier. There is no doubt that suppliers will strictly comply with the contracts, there is no doubt about that. We therefore fulfil our responsibilities, as agreed with the customer in the contract we have concluded with him. Of course, the customer may also have taken out certain insurances himself. In that case, it is possible that a call is needed with his insurer. For the rest, we can say that common law applies and that all the discussions on it can be of a legal nature very quickly. In this sense, it is not possible at the moment to give very specific answers to this question, particularly since we can assume that any damage should occur, it will have to be considered individually. Thus, general statements in this respect are not possible, except by saying that there is a contract and that this contract will be respected. In this context, I would like to reiterate that suppliers, as well as customers who, if there is a switch-off, are most certainly also victims, are equally affected by the decision to switch-off. That decision will be taken by the government, on the advice of the transmission system operator Elia. Why do you have to suffer? Because at that time, regardless of whether the supplier or his balancer is in balance or not, a certain part of the customers will no longer be supplied. The supplier will be technically impossible to supply the customer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u21	Producers must ensure security of supply. If, at some point, a minister has to decide on the release plan and Elia has to cut some cabins, as foreseen in the release plan, it is because there is not enough supply for the demand at that time, it seems to me. There's some kind of upstream responsibility. To say that you suffer it as much as anyone else because you will no longer be able to provide your customers seems to me a little exaggerated. Or explain to us in more detail. I'm trying to summarize the question I see in my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u22	There are situations in which everyone in Belgium is in perfect balance, but we still have to take measures to relieve them because energy is going elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u23	For example?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u24	Very concretely, as a supplier, we can have all the production needed to feed our portfolio, but there are not just suppliers and producers that are active in Belgium. There is trading, traders, which are active, which can be in imbalance. And even purely technically, electricity - whether you like it or not, it's the law of physics - takes the road to less resistance. If there is a neighbouring country where it is cold, very cold, there is a risk that some electrons will leave there, whether we like it or not. We can't help it. We can be in perfect balance in Belgium and the electrons leave anyway. There are situations in which you can be in trouble.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u25	I think it is equally important to repeat the laws of physics on a regular basis. But it's not the time to get stuck in abstract theories. The situation you are describing may arise, but not in the coming winter. If there is a problem in the coming winter, it is because the park of a number of producers is not active and they do not honour their commitments towards their suppliers and indirectly towards their customers. That is a very different situation from the one described by Mr Schoonacker. Our committee's question is who will pay in that case. If you say that you accept as suppliers that you will not receive electricity from the producers, you will open Pandora's box. You're actually saying you can't honor your contract. Then customers could respond as follows: if you as a supplier do not provide anything when there is no power, they will also not have to pay their invoice if they do not have any money. It's as simple as that. I would ask you to clarify this, otherwise you will open Pandora's box. The situation is different from that described by Mr Schoonacker.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u26	I would be wary of predicting what will be the effective cause if there is to be a switch-off. You can imagine different scenarios. Already saying that a switch-off is due to the taking up or not of responsibilities, now or in the past, of producers and suppliers, I think that is a bridge too far.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u27	My question is based on a situation that you yourself describe.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u28	Mr Calvo, it was just for clarification. We will continue to listen to the representatives of the FEBEG.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u29	I now turn to another issue, namely the call by several Members for coordination. Who should take the initiative to put the parties around the table? We believe that this is rather the role of the Secretary of State. At that time, we have not yet received any invitation to do so. That's why we're calling here. This is very important to us and we are ready to get around the table with our partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u30	Why FEBEG? We are an organisation with suppliers and producers and we are trying to defend the common interests of our members. We are also active in the social sphere, in negotiations with the trade unions on the wage and working conditions of the sector. That is also an important point. We also follow up economic records, both from producers and suppliers and with regard to what is happening in the various regions. That is why we want to come out on these issues. There was also a question about the margins of the suppliers. I'd like to show you a slide on that. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u31	I propose that you show them in the second part, devoted to Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u32	One of the fellow guarantors made a study analysing the margins of the different suppliers, based on the National Bank's accounts from 2010 to 2013. It looks at different situations, but the most relevant is the post-tax situation, taking into account one-off revenues, i.e. the structural situation of the suppliers. The graph shows that in 2010 the margin of the suppliers was about 2% and that this decreased to less than 0.5 % in 2013. Hence the need to create a good framework and ensure that suppliers can do their work even further.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u33	Many questions have been raised concerning the balance, the market of tomorrow, the economic framework conditions and the flexibility volumes available. I bring together some questions relating to this topic. Firstly, I would like to talk about the effect of a balancer on balance. It goes without saying that today, much more than before, a lot of decentralised production capacity has been added in this country. If certain cogeneration units and certain wind turbines connected to the distribution network are switched off by Elijah switching off a higher high voltage station because it is located in one of the six discs, it will indeed have a direct impact on the equilibrium of the balance responsible. It's lost that production at the time, and he's probably also lost his customers in that distribution area. The cut-off is not now being selective. That is why we say that the suppliers and the balance-holders are also affected by the cut-off. There is no selective interruption now. If a particular piece needs to be switched off, this applies to all customers located downstream of the switched-off transformer post. This applies to all suppliers operating in that network area. That is indeed a concern that we share. The balancer, on the one hand, has been deprived of a piece of production capacity while, on the other hand, he is struggling with an imbalance, at EUR 4 500 per megawatt hour. Of course, we share that concern. Secondly, as regards interconnection with abroad, Elia now guarantees 3,500 megawatts at any time. That's because of a number of security contrasts. The challenge that needs to be addressed is to see to what extent, in the exceptional circumstances in which one has to choose between switching off and turning on a little more interconnection capacity, one can go a little further by switching on additional interconnection capacity for a short period of time. This is the suggestion put forward in this committee: should these 3,500 MW be kept as an upper limit on an ongoing basis? Could exceptional circumstances not prompt us to go beyond this, in order to avoid being relieved? There were several awards to gas installations. We must ensure that gas installations in this country do not suffer any specific disadvantages compared to gas installations abroad. FEBEG has found that there are disadvantages and this was also addressed in the Memorandum. I can give you two examples. Today, in Belgium, we have to pay an injection rate for Elia to inject electricity with a C.T.E.G., a steam and gas turbine. At present it is also impossible in Belgium, for example, to book capacity on the gas network on a daily basis. We have to book that for a whole year, or not. In Germany, for example, gas plants do not have that disadvantage. This means that, since they can book much more flexible gas and do not have to pay an injection rate, they can respond much more flexibly to the market and therefore have no competitive disadvantage compared to the Belgian gas installations. These are two very concrete examples in which the Belgian gas installations have a disadvantage over, for example, Germany and the Netherlands. In addition, specific explanations were requested concerning the specific situation of gas and profitability. Such an installation shall generate sufficient margin during the year to bear fixed costs of network costs, maintenance costs, personnel costs, etc. Unfortunately, today we find that these installations are structurally loss-making. It's not that it makes too little money, but it loses money. Director-General Marc Van den Bosch has just pointed out that in a free market environment, in a market where margins are minimal for suppliers, it is not feasible in the long term to ask them to keep in service certain assets which are currently loss-making. There is therefore no superprofit on these assets, quite the contrary. It's just structuralally losing. In this sense, the strategic reserve is indeed a good solution to ensure in the short term that certain relatively modern gas installations can still remain on the market. As John has just said, the FEBEG is ready to begin the debate. Perhaps we should look at how to structure the market model in another way and find a way to pay for reliability, the reliability of starting a gas plant, for example. The advantage of such a power plant is that it rotates when you push the button. For the moment, in the design of the current market, which has worked well so far, it must be seen, objectively in our view, that this is not a malfunction of the market but that it is a complement to the present market. This is called a capacity market. The call we make, as FEBEG, is indeed to study, together, to what extent such a capacity market, in coordination with neighbouring countries, can provide a more stable framework so as to have a fair return on gas production tools. This would support and compensate for the intermittent nature of certain renewable energy sources. I think that has given us the context for the gas assets.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u34	I would like to add a few words to that. Mr Schoonacker has just outlined a number of competitive problems of the Belgian gas plants in relation to the gas plants in our neighbouring countries. That is, of course, relative. Gas plants in Germany and the Netherlands are also very difficult to compete with compared to lignite and coal plants. What makes the situation in Belgium even more difficult? In the past it was decided to cut off nuclear energy, as well as coal power stations. As a result, flexibility must be guaranteed, especially with the technology of the gas plants. That is the problem, because these plants are not profitable. In the Netherlands and Germany one can call on the coal plants, which gives one a bit of a dual policy. On the one hand, there is the strong promotion of green energy and, on the other hand, there is the use of coal-fired power stations, which are highly polluting. I think it is important for the future, for the medium term, for our country to be able, within a central Western European context, to achieve a clear choice of technologies, of the energy mix that we want in the future. It must therefore be given the necessary stability in order to create an investment framework capable of ensuring supply in the longer term. This is not easy, because although we can make courageous decisions by making choices for a particular technology, with which we want to ensure supply for many years, confidence will of course come back a little slower. The regaining of confidence will take some time to get the parties that want to invest in the market to invest effectively. After all, these parties will always apply economic laws. The choice was made to create a free market for energy, which means that there are also free market rules in this area. So we cannot expect to invest in uneconomic things.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u35	Some questions were asked about flexible volumes. There were also questions about the potential in terms of unbearable capacity. I see that there are also representatives of the CREG at the back of the room. It's an exercise that's hard to do. I know that some are investigating, sorry not to give you more concrete figures. A study was conducted by FEBELIEC (Federation of Belgian Industrial Energy Consumers), with Elia. At that time, at the level of the industry connected to the Elia network, there was a capacity of 600 MW, most of which was already sold to Elia in the interruptible capacity of a fully normal and current functioning of the equilibrium market, including the tertiary reserves, the reserves that can be activated within a quarter of an hour. There was an additional capacity of 140 MW, if I have a good memory, of which 100 MW were offered as part of the demand side strategic reserve – if I correctly interpreted the press. It is estimated that there is a potential of around 1,000 MW to 2,000 MW in this country at the moment. The only drawback is that for the moment it is not obvious at all to be sure of the entire capacity. Not all industrialists will be ready at any time to lift their share of this 1 000 or 2 000 MW. They will have to make a choice: if it brings them too little to be able to remove, they will choose to continue their manufacturing process. The production process will always be predominant for these industrialists. He will always produce first and then see if he can generate more revenue in second order on the side of the electricity market, he will always make that assessment. In this sense, one can never guarantee, even if there is a huge potential, that that capacity is available at any time. So it is a very pertinent question and a very justified question. I sincerely apologise for not being able to get any specific information out of my hat on this matter, because it contains just that uncertainty at the moment. The suppliers, who all offer such products to customers, still have a huge amount of work to do, indeed, to adjust their consumption, level peaks, forwards or backwards. We are indeed moving towards a new model in which the off-peak hours are not necessarily at night but can occur perfectly in the afternoon, for example when we are producing massively with PV installations. We are aware of this, which is a transition that we must make and for which we must all go together. In the short term, if communication is coordinated, the suppliers will of course also tell their customers that, even if they don't have a smart meter today, I'm talking about the smaller, residential customers if they can, in the period between 17h 00 and 20h 00 they should think for a moment when they light certain lights, that they should turn off certain lighting, that they should delay the use of the dishwasher for a while, because all those little bits will help not to activate the switching plan. So that's pure sensitisation, we don't have the technical tools today to activate that automatically. We already have these tools with certain industrial customers, where we can automatically carry out certain actions with the push of a button in our central dispatching, but we do not yet have them with the residential customers. Returning to the question of who should offer such products, that is also a question that was asked very specifically: we are market players, so who are we to say that we want a monopoly? We are not monopolists, we are just active in the free market. We note that today we are feeling competition from certain spare products purchased by network operators. We ask that we simply give ourselves a fair chance of competing in that market and then we will probably make offers to our customers to make that underbreakable capacity available to us and we can make it available to network operators. We simply need to ensure that there can be no disloyal but loyal competition, so that we can develop products there to ensure that flexibility exists, both on the distribution networks, because that is the market for tomorrow, on the wholesale market and on the transmission network. Together, we will be able to offer this type of product in the context of better management of the balance and stability of the network. So I answered the technical questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, how will we continue to organise the work? We still have two panels on the agenda, namely Electrabel and the CREG, and it is already after 16:00. What do we do?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u37	Madam President, with regard to the order of business, I think that every contribution must be made for what it can bring. There are still elements that need to be addressed here, but this can be done quickly. You mentioned the question of whether we're keeping the CREG today...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u38	That's the question! The whole Steering Committee of the CREG is present and I would not like it to make a presentation to five Members!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u39	Until what time did you plan the work?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u40	I am at the disposal of the committee!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u41	Me too.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u42	Usually the assembly disperses around 5:00 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like the CREG to be able to make its presentation to all Members. If you tell me you have obligations and you have to leave earlier, we can get the CREG back on another day. If there are only four Members in the room for the presentation of the CREG, it is a lack of respect for the regulator. I don't throw the stone at anyone, I just want to know if you're free until 7:00 p.m. or if you prefer the CREG to come back. She's ready, she could still be back this week. I know that some Members still have questions to ask the FEBEG. There will still be a fairly thick presentation from Electrabel, which will be followed by a series of questions. The CREG wouldn't start until 6:00 p.m. in my opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u43	Madam Chair, I think your call is clear. For proper work, it may be better to shift the intervention of the CREG but it will have to be planned next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u44	Or this week!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u45	Yes, you are right because next week we will receive the Secretary of State for conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u46	I apologise, but I did not quite understand what was agreed on the further programme. I believe that last week we agreed to work until 18:00. If the agenda is not finished, perhaps we can continue it at another time, tomorrow if necessary, for me. The representatives are here now. Perhaps we can just listen to what they have to bring and ask questions at another time? It's just an idea, in view of the agreed end at 6:00 p.m., which I'd like to keep.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u47	We are also in favour of stopping today to bring back 18:00 and the CREG at another time, but perhaps better this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u48	In particular, I think it is intended that we should give the representatives of the CREG sufficient time to keep their exposé. If we want to do this thoroughly, I fear that another moment might fit better.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u49	We will apologize to CREG but it is also interesting to hear from suppliers. We could eventually meet Thursday afternoon at 2.30 p.m., as usual. Can this be appropriate for CREG?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u50	Madam President, I have come a long way and am able to work more than two hours in the afternoon. Why don't we start a little earlier? We could start in the morning and work a whole day. Starting at 2:30 is a little short. It would be better to plan Tuesday morning and Tuesday afternoon, without wanting to abuse...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u51	Could we possibly meet tomorrow morning? On Thursday mornings, it's complicated given the group meetings. As a result, there is usually no provision for a commission. We will still decide today. Some colleagues still had questions for the FEBEG.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u52	Madam President, very quickly, in order not to delay the proceedings, I note that when we ask the question of responsibility, the answers vary according to the interlocutor. The answer today is very clear from the suppliers: they are not responsible because they have a contract. Elia said the opposite a few days ago. It seems to me that there will be a legal debate which may arise when the time comes. Compared to coordination, you said that there might be a way to increase the ceiling of 3,500 megawatts of import. I always thought it was a limit due to a technical problem. You said there was a way to get past that ceiling. Could you explain the technical aspect to me? I have no other comment. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u53	Mr Clarinval, like myself and other fellow Members, seems to be having difficulty with the fact that responsibility remains diffuse. I think it is important that people are nuanced, and I understand that there should be some legal caution. I will not say as other fellow Members say: you are the bad guys, you represent big business and the responsibility lies entirely with you. I don't want to be that unsavory. I regret, however, that you do not distinguish between the various responsibilities for the situation that may arise and which we also hope will not arise. As a representative of suppliers and producers, you want to count on our empathy by saying that we must not forget that the suppliers are in some way the victims. But then you must be equally clear about the responsibility of certain producers. I honestly do not understand why that is not possible at this stage. I suspect there will be a debate on this within your organisation. If I were to represent one of the logo dressing machines on your third slide and I had no way of dealing with nuclear power plants with cracks or nuclear power stations where people can walk in and out, I would ask myself whether FEBEG still represents me. Those suppliers also have a problem with the customers with whom they have a contract. I really regret this. I understand that some nuance is important, but you need to be more specific about it. Unless we're wrong, and there are good reasons not to. I would still like to hear about that. In addition, at this stage, I have been pushing less importantly towards FEBEG's position vis-à-vis the ongoing public procurement. There is a discussion about this: is there any mention of new capacity, whether domestic or foreign? That's what I'm looking forward to. As far as compensation is concerned, we consider it legitimate, as has been said, that people who are cut off and whose contract is not honoured are entitled to compensation. That is a complex issue, but you must be clear about it. If you see suppliers and producers as a whole, without distinction, you actually pave the way for customers who will not pay if they cannot pay. If the suppliers accept the fact that there is an insufficient level of production, and they do not honour their contract, customers may soon also say that they cannot pay, that they therefore do not pay their invoice, even if there is electricity. I would like to get some clarity from you about this at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u54	We understand that in the medium to long term, if we are to avoid more and more frequent flooding, the new government will have to take steps to invest in power plants that would increase our capacity. They would thus become profitable for producers. In the short term, it is certain that we are facing serious problems. In this case, the only solution is import. You talked about the interconnectivity capabilities, defined by Elia up to 3,500 MW, but what about the import capacities? Does the role you play as a federation imply that you act as a link between all your members? Some of them may have import capacities, others may not. If we total them, instead of reaching 3,500 MW, we may only reach 2,000. Did you perform a catalyst function? Do you maintain relations with foreign federations to guarantee Belgium greater import opportunities?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u55	Gentlemen of the Febeg, the Secretary of State, whom we received on 17 September, found your silence to be intriguing. His comments are contained in the committee's report. Today, we are no longer faced with silence, but with a call for concerted action. In this context, you have mentioned several interesting dimensions – I am thinking of the idea of meeting quickly in this regard. I'd like to go back to a few things. Even if you are very careful about encryption, you have identified a potential of 1,000 or 2,000 MW of flexibility. Elia's reminder that the imbalance rate was 4,500 Euros/MW will certainly make matters easier. You believe that, despite this risk, prices are not enough to activate the 1,000 to 2,000 MW of flexibility. That's where I don't understand anymore. If that is the case, let's go further in the threat to avoid undoing! This is a first question that will not leave you silent, as the Secretary of State said. You are suggesting – and I assume you will do it again when you are "all together", to repeat your remarks – the question of interconnection beyond 3,500 MW. This is a very important question and I wanted to dig it in your presence, even if I had planned to put it to the CREG. This is an issue that CREG has already worked on. As they are here, I propose that they can develop it during their audition. The CREG has already faced many times with Elia as regards the method of calculating these 3,500 MW. I do not know whether that is what you are referring to or whether it is to the judgment of the Brussels Court of Appeal of 14 October 2011, which refers to the possibility of going further. It's worth investigating, because if we can go beyond it and if it's just a divergence on the risk to be taken, there may be a series of solutions. Could you explain it to us? You won't be here on Thursday, but the CREG will be there and I'll talk to them about it. Last, the customer will legitimately turn against his supplier. The supplier entered into a contract with the customer. But the supplier - in any case some of them - will turn against the producers who are unable to produce what they had promised. The chain of responsibility is relatively well identified. Do you have a list of potentially difficult suppliers? Some are not because they themselves are producers and can produce the quantity they have announced and for which they have entered into supply contracts. Others are potentially more in difficulty. Is it accounted for somewhere? Would you be able to exchange the necessary €4,500 per MWh in more tense times. Or will you let each client act individually? Could we have this potentially difficult list of suppliers, if it exists?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u56	Thanks for the answers. I think the story of interconnection is important in terms of production capacity abroad. When we asked Elia whether it was possible to get more interconnection, the answer was that more interconnection was okay, but there was still electricity to go through it. We will have to see how that goes. The responsibilities, that's a very difficult story for me. As a government, we have encouraged our citizens to invest in capacity that depends on weather conditions. At a time when problems are about to arise, we are talking about scenarios such as the one we experienced in January 2013: there was no solar energy on the grid and there was very little wind, which meant that we had to clear it up with the classic power stations. I'd be careful to nail one or the other to the cross as responsible. Who is it? Who did it? A lot of VREG's fuel mix is an important tool for this. The VREG has a nice portfolio of power sources that have nothing to do with nuclear power plants. At the same time, there is a batch of nuclear power on the invoice in Iceland, while there is no interconnection and no nuclear power plants there. In particular, I would like to say that we must pay attention to playing the black-and-white. Let us, above all, see how we can end up in a safe situation in the long term. Today we are talking about emergency measures, but formulating an energy vision and ensuring that we get out of them in the near future...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u57	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u58	I didn't say that, did I? Mr Calvo, I would ask you to listen to my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u59	I'm trying to understand you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u60	You often have problems with that. I know that, especially when it comes to the energy turn and the coal stories you tell. I think the story is about how we are getting back on track. I do not think we have too much time for this energy vision. I understand that there is certainly a willingness to cooperate. I think we should open this wide, unlike the earlier States-General of Energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u61	The answers I have heard confirm the collapse of the energy market. This worries me for the coming winter but also for the following winters. No solution has been put forward except to increase profit margins by means of a series of gifts that the State would give to energy producers, in addition to those, tax and other, which already exist. Questions about the profit margins of gas-fired power plants are good, but the question may also be raised as to whether the margins on nuclear power plants are not too high. Your position is clear on these issues. On the question of responsibilities, it is clear that you will not take them. I asked a question you didn't answer. My colleague Nollet rested it. It was about knowing which suppliers will be most in difficulty this winter to meet their obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u62	Mr President, I wanted to know whether the FEBEG has been mandated by the producers to represent them. If so, what is this mandate? One of the speakers said that for a gas-fired power plant, it was enough to push the button. According to the information in my possession, it seems that for a TGV, even when under voltage, it takes four hours before being in production.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u63	You said that you are expecting a signal from the Secretary of State for Coordination, but you have not responded with regard to own communication from suppliers, to their own commercial danger that they will no longer be able to respond to their customers' requests. I am not talking about the situation, in J-7, where the release plan is announced; but about the situation where, without Elia's special alert, suppliers communicate with their customers because they themselves do not know if they will be able to supply these customers in a commercial way while the shortage is not there yet – instead of a coordinated communication that you have called for. Compared to Mr Nollet's question about the 1,000 to 2,000 megawatts, if I understood correctly, you could offer more of this type of product, but today we do not offer this type of product to recover those 1,000 to 2,000 megawatts and we should find another economic model in relation to this type of product. Especially in relation to Elia and the transportation fare. I believe it is not in the context of this winter; but perhaps they will answer us in relation to that. There is a shock phrase that has been said, it will have to be studied by everyone: we are in a liberalised market, it is the rule of the market that decides, and we must not expect unprofitable investments. It was pronounced by the president. I think that at some point, politicians will have to draw all the consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u64	We gaan terug proberen de vragen – to bring together some questions. There were several questions about the 3,500 megawatts of import capacity. It is Elia who fixes it; it is in the hands of Elia to manage this whole of the capacity; it is not for the individual members of the FEBEG to manage this interconnection capacity. It's Elia who's handling this. We are fully aware of the fact that Elia must operate her network according to well-defined safety criteria, even at European level, for the clarity of the debate. Unloading is also a potentially exceptional situation. Do we make the choice to make one or the other? It is in this context that we dare to defy this limit. We do not ask for or suggest a deviation from the European standard called N-1. This means that at any time, the system operator must be able to continue its activity if an element of the system triggers. It can be a power station, a line, a post,... Whatever! It's the N-1. We have the situation with N - component in the network - whether on the production side, on the sampling side or in the network itself and we remove one of these elements, no matter where in Europe. Definitions are applied at European level and it is logical that Elia's network as well as the capacity available for the import still exploitable should be dimensioned, taking this criterion into account. Our suggestion, to go quickly and possibly for this winter,... We have all heard in this committee that there are investment projects at the same time. As a result, in the long term there will be more physical import capacity with neighbouring countries and even with countries with which we are not yet interconnected. It is simply a short-term suggestion to temporarily reconsider the electrical system and the balance on the grid, for short periods, without putting it into extreme difficulty but for the clarity of the debate and to admit perhaps even more production capacity. In the same order, I can answer a question that has not yet been answered. Yes, there is currently overcapacity in both the Netherlands and Germany. So I understand Elijah's question and concern in that regard. Elia asks if that capacity is available. Elijah provides, in a manner of speaking, a water supply, but wonders whether there is enough water on the other side of the border to allow it to flow through. Well, that capacity is currently available, including in the form of gas installations, but above all coal plants in both the Netherlands and Germany. Activation of the 1,000 and 2,000 MW against a "waiting rate" of 4,500 euros per megawatt hour is a very important incentive. To activate it massively – we are talking about large volumes – we must distinguish between two elements. It would never be feasible or imaginable as a supplier to activate... let's imagine that everyone has, tomorrow, an intelligent meter. I didn't say everyone had to have one. Let's imagine that tomorrow, a supplier has in his portfolio a multitude of contracts with his customers to postpone certain consumptions. This will never be done manually, but always automatically. On the side of our current residential clientele, we can only raise awareness in a coordinated manner. You can't say, "My wallet's in trouble, I'm going to make a call." If I do, I'll only do it to my clients. If I'm unbalanced, it helps the overall balance of the network if I reduce the consumption of my customers and other suppliers would not suffer, in the example you gave. On the other hand, we must be able to automate it. If we find industrial customers, it's not them who will push the button, but it's us, in our centralized dispatches, or the different representatives, who will activate or trigger certain equipment, who will advance or postpone certain consumptions. We need the time to implement it. Increasing that rate now would just be a penalty that won't help during the difficult winter that we may be going through. It is clear that we must give fair value to demand management. In this context, the product will develop, I am convinced. It is not by increasing the fine today that tomorrow, 24 September, we will have an additional 1000 MW. That would be unrealistic. Let's keep it reasonable! There was a third question concerning the public procurement procedure. As has just been said, FEBEG calls for a joint study on how to review the market for existing and new installations where appropriate. In this sense, the call for tenders is an initiative that was taken at a certain point in time. For the record, I do not know what the statute is at present. We are also waiting to see what the results are. I think we really need to enter into a fundamental discussion about how we could structure that market tomorrow, so that existing installations will remain in the market if they are willing to be flexible and to cope with the unpredictable nature of certain installations. Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, we must continue to replace existing installations which have become obsolete. To this end, it is necessary to consider whether they can ensure a reasonable return on capital. In this context, there remained a very small technical question of start-up time. It all depends on the type of gas-fired power plant we're talking about. Some of them are open-cycle. They operate like aircraft reactors, which start in a quarter of an hour at full speed. Their performance already exceeds 40%. These are very modern and reliable tools. This combined cycle was designed to achieve maximum performance. In terms of thermodynamics, two technologies have been assembled in a single production unit, which is extremely flexible. It reaches full power in a few minutes. It is true that the start-up takes some time, because, to optimize efficiency, steam takes more time to be preheated. The order of magnitude is therefore four to eight hours. It all depends on how the station was shut down. Once again, if you know it in advance, you can prepare for it and start the slice early enough to make it flexible at the right time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u65	Mr President, I should perhaps like to comment on the questions of the responsibilities that have been raised by various parties. I can answer the question of responsibilities as follows. I was a safety officer in a company a long time ago, and when the question arises as to who is responsible for an accident at work, there is no answer. If you look for solutions, you will get answers, so that you can often avoid another accident next time. I therefore believe that we should learn from this by first of all trying to ensure that these situations do not occur anymore. Responsibilities can be very diffuse. The President has already spoken about this and Mr Schoonacker has also spoken about overcapacity in the Netherlands. Each supplier will do the best it can to buy or produce its own energy, here or abroad. This creates an entire chain, as we also try to demonstrate in one of our slides, to bring the energy to the customer. Nothing rules out that at some point some element can fail. We must learn from that. A week ago, for example, we ran out of power for two hours in the backyard of Eandis. I hope that Eandis has solved that problem and will ensure that it does not occur again, or at least tries to learn a technical lesson from it. I think we should try to put this whole chain into effect. It was asked which suppliers could be the most affected. I'm sorry, but I can't answer that question. In an organization like ours, there is no talk of commercial aspects. We should not, either, because otherwise we might have to go to an investigation committee to check on cartels. So such issues are absolutely not discussed in our federation, and I would also like to distance myself from them. I do not want to and cannot say how the exact commercial flows between producers and suppliers run, because we do not know anything about this, as we do not discuss it. I have to be very clear about that. Responsibilities also raise the question of the relationship between FEBEG, customers and suppliers. Well, I think that every supplier, every balancer, is doing its best not to sit in that case, given that it has EUR 4 500 hanging over its head. I am asked if we have a mandate. Yes, of course we have a mandate, because everyone realizes that if something goes wrong in the chain, there may be a problem. It is clear that every supplier is trying to avoid this. I don't know if I can say more about that right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u66	Thank you for all these answers. Of course, you can stay with us to hear Electrabel. Colleagues, after consultation by the Secretariat, we propose to hear the CREG tomorrow afternoon at 14.00.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u67	We will continue with the people of Electrabel. I assume that they too have prepared a presentation that we will see on the screen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u68	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving us the floor. Many of you are once again seeing Wim De Clercq, our responsible nuclear production. Since we assume that the most important aspect of this discussion is nuclear energy, we have re-represented it here today. He will talk about the very exceptional situation in which our nuclear park is located, but also about all the efforts he, his people and all the suppliers are making to get the facilities to function as quickly as possible and, above all, in safe conditions. That's their collective priority. He will also talk about all the efforts Electrabel makes with his entire park in Belgium to effectively deploy any megawatt that can be used and thus contribute as much as possible to avoiding power cuts. That will be the second part of his presentation. I am happy to give him the floor now.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, the situation of our nuclear park is exceptional today. You will see on this slide a small overview of the nuclear capacity available today in Belgium. Three of the seven plants operating in Belgium are currently unavailable, in particular Objective 3, Tihange 2 and Objective 4. In my speech, I will return to this in more detail, well aware that the core step law stipulates that Objective 1 will be shut down from 15 February 2015 and Objective 2 from December 2015. You will notice that half of our nuclear capacity is unavailable today, which corresponds to about 20% to 25% of total capacity, non-intermittent, not taking into account wind or solar energy. It's an exceptional situation. You can see this very well on the right-hand graph, which shows the availability of our nuclear park in the last 15 years. Then you will see that the nuclear park in Belgium, which we run, has historically had very good availability rates. We have availability that rotates around 90 %. In doing so, account has been taken of planned unavailabilitys such as revisions and unplanned unavailabilitys, such as a shutdown. You will see that these figures remain stable until 2011, after which availability has decreased by 15% due to the problems with Objective 3 and Tihange 2. The fact that half of the nuclear park is unavailable is therefore certainly not a phenomenon that has been occurring for several years. I think the graph on availability is very clear. Let's take a closer look at the files of Target 3, Tihange 2 and Target 4. I'd like to start with the file on Target 3 and Tihange 2. When the power stations were restarted in May last year, a number of long-term conditions were attached to that restart in consultation with the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. One of the conditions was to check the material properties of the reactor vessel. This had to be done by carrying out tests on test pieces that had been irradiated and on test pieces with hydrogen inclusions. It was therefore necessary to examine whether the hydrogen inclusions present in Objective 3 and Tihange 2 did not evolve with time. Then I'll give you a little history of what's happened since then. Power stations were restarted in May 2013 and several long-term actions were launched at that time. In the spring of this year, after a number of materials were irradiated in January, I explained that in one of the committee meetings just before the holidays, a number of tests were carried out, namely the tensile test, the ductility test and the fracture toughness test. The result of the fracture toughness test showed that this value did not match what experts expected. Since the result was not in line with expectations, the unexpected result could not be explained and since we could no longer guarantee that both units could be operated with full nuclear safety guarantees, we as an operator decided on 25 March to stop Objective 3 and Tihange 2 early and to begin the revision, which was planned for a few months later. The revisions were carried out in the meantime. I'll come back to that later. An impressive campaign of additional tests was launched, in collaboration with the people of Tractebel Engineering, the study bureau of the group. Two additional radiation campaigns were carried out with the people of Laboralec and the Nuclear Energy Study Centre in Mol in April/May and July/August. What happens during such a radiation campaign? In the short term, irradiation can simulate the entire life of a reactor. At one month's time, increased neutron fluxes can simulate 40 years of residence in a reactor. Those tests were carried out on different types of materials. More than four hundred test pieces were subjected to the tensile test, the ductility test and the fracture toughness test. That test programme was constantly updated to give an explanation for what was adopted in March after the first irradiation campaign. The tests of the second radiation campaign have been completed. We are still in the process of testing the third radiation campaign. We can already rule out a number of issues, but we were not able to draw any general conclusions at the beginning of September. It's too soon for that. We can exclude, for example, that what we established in March is not linked to an error in the irradiation procedure in the BR2 reactor at Mol. At some point there was some doubt as to whether the circumstances were representative. We could have ruled out all of those cases. Secondly, the non-evolutional character of the hydrogen inclusions has been investigated. Additional inspections were carried out in May both in Objective 3 and in Tihange 2. Following these inspections, we were able to conclude that, compared to the measurements in 2012 and 2013, there is no evolution of the hydrogen inclusions. What is the current state of affairs? Well, the test programme on the test pieces of the third radiation campaign is still ongoing. You can actually compare that to a puzzle. A lot of puzzle pieces have to fit together. We are now fully working on fitting together, to get a good view on the whole. The aim is that the file will be ready by the end of the autumn so that the safety file can be submitted to the Agency. The FANC, Bel V and AIB Vinçotte have already clearly indicated that they will also need time to examine the file and submit it to their panel of international experts before they can give a definitive go for the re-launch of both plants, Objectives 3 and Tihange 2. Once that final go has been rebooted, we will need two to three weeks to reboot the fuel and reboot the power stations. This is a state of play on Objective 3 and Tihange 2. Target 4 is a completely different story. For Objective 4, we are talking about a dossier in which there is a reasonable amount of damage to the installations following an incident at the beginning of August. You will see a photo taken last week in the machinery room, where the turbine has been completely dismantled for detailed analysis and repair. Just a little history of what happened on Target 4. On August 5, the turbine was shut down in the late morning due to a low level in the oil tank. A turbine is a large wheel with shovels on it, which rotates at 1,500 rows. That's supported by bearings. Each engine has bearings that allow the shaft to rotate in the bearing shells. Between the shaft and the bearing shells there is a small oil film that ensures that the shaft does not touch the bearings and that everything can keep moving. If the oil goes down, there's a problem. One can compare that to driving with a car. If the cap comes out of the oil cart and the oil cart runs empty, then the engine will run out of oil and one will not get far. That's what happened here. The turbine was shut down due to a low level in the oil tank. That is a perfectly normal course, in accordance with the procedures. If you get a low level in the oil tank, it automatically switches off to protect the machine. That's why there's an automatic reactor stop. It has been completely safe, in accordance with the procedures. I want to be very clear: the turbine is located in the non-nuclear part of the plant. If the turbine is switched off, an emergency shutdown of the reactor will automatically occur. That is a safety procedure and it went perfectly. Normally, when the turbine is switched off and the flow valves of the steam are closed, the turbine will slowly stop. This can be compared to releasing the accelerator of a car on a straight road. If nothing else is done, the car will need several hundred meters, or miles, to stop completely. The turbine is running at 1,500 rpm. When the steam drain is closed, it will run out slowly. That takes about 35 to 40 minutes. We have found that after about 12 minutes, the turbine that turned 400 revolutions suddenly stopped. From 400 rows she fell back on 0 rows in 1 minute. That indicates a blockage of the machine. Following some investigations, it was found that an oil tank drain valve had been opened manually. You can see that in the picture. Through the yellow pipe, the oil has flowed out of the oil tank to the specially provided collector, which has turned the turbine without oil. It took some time to figure out the right cause, but after some research we found that there was no technical reason for opening that valve and so there were indications that someone deliberately opened that valve. The operator then informed the FANC, as required by the procedures, that a complaint had been lodged with the public prosecutor. We, too, lodged a complaint against strangers at the court the following day. The state of affairs today is that the investigation of the federal judicial police is continuing and is not being communicated, either to us or to the outside world. Additional security measures were taken immediately in consultation with the FANC. All security measures were taken, as required by current regulations, but following the incident there have been, among other things, additional checks on accesses and badges systems. Then I come to the state of repair of the turbine. You have seen in the first picture that it is about a large equipment; it takes some time for this to cool down enough to be able to open it and make an initial analysis. We are now so far away that the turbines, the high-pressure turbine and the two low-pressure turbines have been opened, analysed and sent to the manufacturer for repair. The high-pressure turbine is an Alstom turbine and the low-pressure turbine is a Siemens turbine. Together with the various suppliers, we will make every effort to carry out the repair as soon as possible. This repair takes some time, because especially with the high-pressure turbine the shovels are severely damaged. Those shovels are all very specific, so they're not just in stock with the suppliers. They need to be manufactured. In order to make these shovels, it is necessary to provide production capacity and to purchase the necessary materials. A whole manufacturing process must therefore be put into effect and this takes several weeks to months. As planned, the turbine would return at the beginning of December and the power station could be switched back on by the end of this year. On the picture at the bottom on the left you can see the turbine wheels, where all openings are located. Normally that should be one nicely closed surface. Those shovels are all supposed to be nicely aligned and you can see in the picture that those shovels are twisted by the blocking of the machine. All those shovels need to be replaced. So here's the part about the nuclear aspect. I would now like to address the various initiatives that Electrabel has already undertaken and intends to undertake, both in the nuclear park and in the conventional park, to increase the electricity capacity available in difficult times and to enhance the security of supply of Electrabel vis-à-vis its customers. There are two points of view: the producer's point of view and the supplier's point of view. As a producer, we have already made the adaptation of the revision period of the Tihange 1 and Coo power plants. As for Tihange 1, the stop for reloading and LTO work was scheduled for late August to mid-November. We proposed to the Agency to divide the various works over two stops: a stop now for reloading but which will be shorter and will last until mid-October and a second stop to carry out the LTO works that were provided for in the commitments made for the lifetime extension, the extension of the life of Tihange 1. LTO is part of the nuclear jargon for the extension of the life of Tihange 1. Also in Coo, there was a slide of some revisions to have more capacity available in difficult times, November-December, when it could be colder. We do not have a scheduled shutdown of our biomass or gas-fired power plants in winter and all our TGV plants are available at full capacity. For some plants, there is a way to slightly increase power by applying co-combustion with natural gas. For example, for the Max Green plant in Rodenhuize, which operates with pellets, there is a way to inject some natural gas to increase production by about 25 megawatts. We can take this kind of initiative at critical times when there is a shortage of available capacity in the market. Another initiative we have analysed is the possibility of starting and connecting the reserve diesel from a nuclear power plant to the grid. Since Tihange 2 and Doel 3 are at a standstill, not all diesels are necessary to ensure the nuclear safety level and so we could use some of them to produce some extra megawatts on the grid. Another possibility is to use the diesel black start of some power plants. We talked earlier about the Herdersbrug power plant. In some power plants, we have black start capabilities. This means that power plants can be started without an external network. This diesel could be used to release a few megawatts on the grid. There is also the uprating of the Drogenbos gas turbine. We could increase the capacity of the turbine, just like the gasmotor at Herdersbrug. Another possibility to increase capacity is, together with the large industrialists with whom we have cogeneration capabilities, to maximize the use of cogens for electricity generation. A cogen, normally, produces steam, heat, used in the manufacturing process at the customer and, at the same time, produces electricity. All major customers have backup boilers. In difficult times of supply, one could organize with customers to start the backup boilers and thus release the power of the cogen to produce electricity. All these initiatives can be taken to increase electricity capacity on the Belgian grid. As a supplier, there are other initiatives. I am not going to detail them because this has already been explained by the FEBEG colleagues in the first part of the presentations, but we could work on the demand for management, have contracts with large industrial customers, in which we can cut part of their electricity consumption at any time. For example, a company that has a lot of fridges, if you cut the fridges for two or three hours, that's not why your manufacturing process will be started. Another initiative that we have taken, this time in the context of awareness-raising and communication, is to work together, with customers, to ensure that the impact of a possible blackout or partial discharge is minimal on the manufacturing process of one or the other SMEs, for example. We explain how a company or individual can prepare for short-term or long-term relief. I hope, with these two aspects – supplier and producer – I have given you a good overview of the various initiatives we have taken for the security of supply of our customers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u70	Thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u71	I want to thank Electrabel's team for the state of play and for the information on what's ahead. For a number of things, of course, it remains to be guessed, but I suppose this is also true for the team, for example when it comes to rehiring Objective 4. I think we will have to wait and see how the work is moving and where we are going to come out. After all, it would be very useful if we could still use that power station in the winter of 2014-2015, knowing that the coldest periods and problems often occur in January and February. It would be reassuring if we could have that power station again and thus partially eliminate the need for a switch-off plan. For the other power stations, I understand that it is mainly waiting to see what the tests will show. Apparently, it's harder to really put a timing on that, let alone whether those tests actually lead to results. You said that the proposed measures would make additional capacity available if necessary. Which capacity volumes are we talking about? Figures have been mentioned, but I've lost the overview a little bit. Is it all about direct capacity or is it also about spare capacity? I am thinking, for example, of the tertiary reserve. Sometimes people say that diesel plants can serve the flexible tertiary reserve. Is this also the case here or is it about the classical production through these installations? I also assume that it is still difficult to discuss the investigation of the incident and the measures taken in the meantime in relation to Objective 4, but I shall try again. Have you also taken measures for conventional thermal power stations? If people with bad intentions can shut down the non-nuclear part in a nuclear power station, can I imagine that perhaps there is also the fear of other power stations, or are they already adequately secured at this time? It would be useful to consider whether we can expect problems with people with bad intentions who look a little further than purely nuclear. Finally, how do we proceed in the future? We know that investment is difficult for everyone. What is Electrabel's strategy for the coming years in terms of investment to keep existing plants in service? I am thinking, for example, of measures to make certain gas turbines more profitable or even new capacity, as far as the market allows. What line of thought do you follow in that regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u72	Mr President, I thank the representatives of Électrabel for their presentation. Without seeking a particular trial in Électrabel, one can only make this absolutely shocking and unpredictable observation: more than 50% of the Belgian nuclear fleet is now under arrest. In other words, the production capacity of the incumbent and dominant operator poses a serious supply risk to the country. I am not here to bring your case today, but to understand and obtain clear explanations in terms of nuclear safety and security of your nuclear sites. Indeed, and we have already had the opportunity to say so, our group believes that nuclear safety is the top priority – even more important than the risk of shortages. Without wanting to play on panic, we know that the idea of infallible nuclear power is a myth. So we can't break down security. It is for this reason that we shall keep reminding ourselves that, whatever the risk of shortages, there is a need for solid guarantees to reactivate cracked reactors. I am very pleased that you are with us today, because we have not yet obtained clear information on the state of testing, cracks and collaboration with the Federal Nuclear Control Agency to develop a timetable. We had it today, and I thank you for that. In terms of the safety of nuclear sites, and I confess that I am not an expert in this field, I was astonished enough to learn with what apparent ease one had managed to put a plant at a standstill. I dare not imagine that you have not taken any further steps to secure all your sites. You didn't mention it in your presentation. Can you reassure me on this point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u73	Mr President, in turn, I would like to thank the representatives of Electrabel for the clarity of the information they have provided us today. I have a few questions to ask them. As far as Doel 4 is concerned, you mentioned new security measures that were taken as a result of the discovery of this sabotage. Can you give us a little more explanation of this and tell us whether these new measures have also been implemented in the other power stations? With regard to the deadline for relaunching Doel 4, the Secretary of State referred to December. Do you confirm this information? Will the ongoing work of subcontractors and your teams be well completed in December 2014? I come to a question that I also asked other interlocutors about the problem of the relief plan. In your opinion - who are both a supplier and a producer - who will be responsible for the compensation of any victims in case of activation of the release plan? We heard that Elia was criminalizing the producers. FEBEG, on the other hand, clearly exempts suppliers. What is your position? I imagine your lawyers have also pitched on this issue. With regard to security of supply, I welcome all the new measures you have announced here. I see we're even going to put natural gas in pellet plants. I find this remarkable, even though I wonder how we will calculate the amount of green certificates that can be granted. Imagination is in power. That's good! Do you have any idea how much all these new measures represent in practice, if they are all implemented? I also imagine that the cost of implementing them is important. There is a clear need for technical adaptations. I assume that, in order to activate these "innovations", if I can express myself in this way, a signal taken will have to be indicated. Or could these innovations be incorporated into a strategic reserve? The implementation of these policies is good but what is the signal taken that will be requested or given in relation to the cost of this additional production? How much is produced by all these innovations? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u74	I would in turn like to thank you for your presence and your communication. It is important that we have clarity on a number of reactors as soon as possible. I would therefore like to ask a few more questions about Tihange 2 and Objective 3. At the committee meeting on 3 September, the director of the FANC said that he had already received a rough report on the first interim results. However, it has not yet been possible to draw many conclusions from this. We've been three weeks. Has that report been officially handed over to the FANC? Can interim conclusions be drawn from this? Is there a difference between the results of Tihange 2 and Target 3? If I recall correctly from previous meetings, the number of cracks in one reactor is greater than in the other. Does this have any implications for the results? Can any conclusions be drawn from this? When will this be clear? As far as Objective 4 is concerned, you have outlined the situation and the parts that have been damaged. The best-case scenario is apparently that Objective 4 will be restarted in December of this year. That would be good news. Has there been an assessment of the worst case scenario? What else could go wrong? When will we finally know whether or not Objective 4 will be restarted? Can you clarify that? You have listed a number of measures that you would like to take to ensure that the offer is as secure as possible. You mentioned some figures, but they were not quite clear. Can you recount how much additional capacity is involved in the various measures of your presentation? In all these measures, you did not mention one slope. However, it has already been in the media, namely the Ruien power plant. According to the newspaper that was a possible piste, but Elia immediately stated that this could not be because the land was sold and the plant has already been partially demolished. Can you clarify if that's correct? There is, after all, a lack of clarity among the people in the area.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u75	Mr President, Madam President, I am particularly pleased that, after four weeks, Electrabel will be sitting at the front of this House. We have been asking all kinds of questions for four weeks, while those directly concerned have not yet spoken. For my first questions, I agree with Mr Wollants, who says that we would now like to know what happened there. We know that there is a judicial inquiry, and you cannot, of course, elaborate on that, but we also wonder whether anything can be said about it. We are particularly concerned about what has now been done in concrete terms in other plants to avoid situations such as those in Objective 4. In fact, we have never received a very clear answer to that in recent weeks, and we expect a little from you today. A second topic I wanted to mention is the future. We have all read in the newspapers that the future government is particularly concerned about the situation, which is also logical. And we have all been able to read that it is being considered to keep Objective 1 and Objective 2 open for longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u76	Mrs Jiroflée, I would like us to remain in the debate on security of supply this winter. We will soon have ample time to have this whole debate in this committee. Electrabel cannot anticipate a decision that has not yet been taken. So Electrabel has absolutely nothing to anticipate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u77	I will come to my question immediately. It is useful to know how the problems which may arise in the future, which we have been discussing here for four weeks, can be solved. One of the scenarios may be to keep Objective 1 and Objective 2 open for longer. I understand that people are thinking about that. Then why not ask Electrabel what her vision is? Is Electrabel gonna be in that story? What conditions would Electrabel impose if the company were to answer that question or should it think that it is indeed the solution? I understand now that you see the rebooting of Target 4 in December as a possible scenario. Then I wonder whether there is indeed still time to consider keeping Objective 1 and Objective 2 open for longer. If that is the case, what is the cost? There are rumours that it would cost EUR 600 million per reactor. Is that realistic? Is that the amount right or is that too crazy to run loose? I'd like to hear that from Electrabel. If it were possible to keep it open for longer, I would also wonder whether a timing could be attached to it. Thirdly, I would like to talk about the switch-off. Something that has also been discussed every time is the question of whether the customers will be harmed, in particular, by the families and SMEs in the event of a possible switch-off. In what way does Electrabel intend to handle that damage? How can these customers be reimbursed? That question is always being addressed here and we always have the impression that the hot apple is being pushed back and forth. We believe that this question should also be put to you, as a producer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u78	Madam President, I would just like to ask a few quick questions. Many points were raised in your presentation and then in my colleagues' questions. I know, as colleagues have said, that the matter is under investigation, but I would have liked to know if you could imagine further strengthening the security measures. It's very disturbing to say that, basically, it always depends on a human will. Is there a type of passage for staff dealing with these highly sensitive issues? I mean, something that is oath order, which accredits them to a particular function to deal with all the problems related to reactors. There are probably even closer functions where it would be more damaging if there were, intentionally or clumsyly, a human operation on these reactors. As far as capacity is concerned, several colleagues have talked about it, and I would really like that to be precise. I admit I don't see much of it anymore. When we talk about complementary capacity with the efforts you are undertaking, are these things applicable for this winter or for the coming months – next winter – or in the long term? Could you split it into three: the very short term, the medium term and the long term in your efforts to search for complementary capacity? It has been mentioned a lot with previous speakers, and you are not going to escape it, the question of responsibility. How do you intend to deal with this problem? We talked about legal issues. Everyone stands behind the common law. I have some vague legal notions; as a lawyer, before article 1382 of the Civil Code, there is a contract that binds you to clients, and this one must be executed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u79	Madam President, I would like to move on to Mrs Matz, because I do not think that the system of order of the political groups is an ideal system. Perhaps it could be considered not to apply it at all times, although that is not the most important point at the moment. I would like to thank both Electrabel representatives for their presence. In recent weeks, as a group, we have strongly insisted on the presence of representatives of Electrabel. We think it's a very logical question. It is not Parliament's role to play some kind of court, but Parliament has the role to play in a crisis like this, about which the citizens are really concerned, to strengthen and also dare to appoint responsibilities. Mrs Heyvaert, Mr De Clercq, it is our group's conviction that there is a very great responsibility for you as an operator, as a producer. Of course, this has to do with the concrete situation now under way, as well as with the Electrabel agenda in recent years. I remember my first hearing as a young and impetuous Member of Parliament with your former CEO, Mrs Dutordoir, who tried hard to convince the world not to ask for a higher nuclear contribution. One of the arguments was that we knew how important these nuclear power plants are for our security of supply, for the flow of our SMEs and companies. It is also your company that has said in recent years that we absolutely need nuclear power stations, with the question of extended opening behind it, because you were the ultimate source of security. I therefore put a number of questions to you today, and I would like to make a few comments. Some fellow Members may think that the green family is a bit biased in this respect. I dispute that, and I quote someone who in any case cannot be accused of green bias, because, among other things, he has a professional history in the nuclear sector and even at Electrabel in particular, namely Mr Bens. During the hearing on 3 September, he talked about Objective 3 and Tihange 2, about the calendar that is always shifting, about the clarity that is not coming, about two years of tests and additional tests, about press releases here and press releases there. Mr Bens said very clearly that the timing of Electrabel is not pleasant for us. "The fingers of our experts itch to fly in," he said. So that frustration has also emerged in the past week. I note that our group is not the only one who is particularly bored with your role in this matter. As far as Objective 3 and Tihange 2 are concerned, I find it extremely difficult to deal with these dossiers, because there has been an incredible game going on for two years. For two years, your colleagues on the market have not been aware of their needs at all. Ladies and gentlemen, the moment of truth may now finally come. I think it is logical that the Secretary of State, together with the Minister of the Interior, should set a deadline not only for security of supply, but also for nuclear safety, on the future of Objective 3 and Tihange 2. You look a little surprised. The last time Mr De Clercq was here was in May. Well, in March it was said that everything would be complete in May-June. In May-June it became July and August again. Today we are September and the investigation will not be completed until the end of November. Then there are further investigations to be carried out, and so it is moving forward. You know the chronology. You know how much timing has already shifted. I think you will understand that our group, as well as the other energy companies and the population, are tired of being delayed. We expect clarity on this. I wonder if I have understood you correctly about the status of the investigation at the moment. You say the tests of the second radiation have been completed. The results after irradiation confirm the previous results. The previous results are then the results of March, which were at the basis of the closure. Isn't it? Have the tests of March been confirmed? Yes or no? That seems to be the case here, but I didn't quite understand that. Does it mean that the research confirms that the robustness of the two reactor vessels is less than originally thought and that the cause of the shutdown was confirmed in March? In the meantime, we know that it has nothing to do with the way in which controls are carried out and with the circumstances. This means that it really has to do with the nature of the material of the reactor vessel containing hydrogen flakes. This confirms our impression that the future of Objective 3 and Tihange 2, which are already so unclear, will be decided as soon as possible, in particular that no risk will be taken in this respect. In any case, the lack of clarity and the shifting of timing must stop now. Moreover, I do not understand why the agency is not much clearer and more assertive about you as an operator and that it is taking note of the fact that it continues to lag behind. Then I'll get to Target 4. I once asked a parliamentary question about figures on safety attestations and safety clearances in nuclear power stations. That scared the hell out of me. The same feeling happened to me when I noticed, as a result of the sabotage in Objective 4, that there were hundreds of people who were eligible to have committed that act, which seems very strange to me. Could you be a little clearer on that, because it seems very strange to me, even if it is in a non-nuclear zone, as Mr Wollants has pointed out, that it is a human being's coming and going and that it is not easily established that X, Y or Z committed this alleged sabotage. How many people are eligible? You don't have to mention the names, this isn't the place for that, but how many people is it about? Is it about own employees or is it also about externals? Has that zone been accessible to outsiders and are there any possible perpetrators among those outsiders? I am not asking you to conduct the investigation yourself, but to understand the possible security measures that need to be taken in addition. I'm staying in the same mood. You say that you have taken additional security measures following that incident, which are more than what is legally determined or requested. What measures is this about? Moreover, the Royal Decree on the physical protection of nuclear power plants does not determine the measure to be taken per measure. For example, the Royal Decree does not say that two people must go on a continuous journey together. I read that the four eyes principle was introduced after the incident. The Royal Decree does not say what it must be, it simply says that the operator must take all measures for the physical security of the plants. If such an incident can happen, I do not think you have fulfilled your legal obligation, because as an operator you are responsible for ensuring the physical security of the power stations and for avoiding such sabotage. That is my belief at the moment, but perhaps you have arguments to convince me otherwise? In any case, I am curious about these additional measures. With regard to the additional measures you are taking in the area of security of supply, it is interesting to know the order of magnitude. What is the potential of these measures? I think you are dealing very quickly with a number of things, such as the closure, for reasons of profitability, of some thermal power stations. You don't nod? We've been able to track this in the press. It would be interesting to indicate what decisions have been taken recently. I have the impression, together with other fellow Members, that units have been closed in recent years, which has helped to organise the scarcity that is taking place today. As far as the supply and possible shutdown are concerned, Electrabel spokesmen have previously noted that Electrabel guarantees delivery to all its customers. Is that still true? Are you still saying you're perfectly capable of doing this in winter, even though Target 3, Tihange 2 and Target 4 aren't running? Do you guarantee all your customers? That's the nuance you've made: "As far as our customers are concerned, we're perfectly capable of delivering. Is that still true, yes or no? What is your view on the whole issue of responsibility and possible compensation? Finally, I agree with the President that we should not have the debate on the coalition agreement today. That would be a little silly. In the short term, however, a decision must be taken on Objective 1 and Objective 2 for the coming winter and the following winter. The question is: can these power stations operate at all in the short term, this winter and next winter? For example, there is the question of purchasing fuel. Has that been decided yet? And can you do that? I am not talking about the discussion as to whether or not an extension of ten years can be made. Can you tell us at this stage about the availability of Objective 1 and Objective 2 in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u80	Madam President, as a representative of the PTB-PVDA, I think I can say that Electrabel bears an overwhelming responsibility for the risk of shortages that we will have this winter and that we will probably experience the following winters, because I do not see what is changing structurally. Mr De Clercq, I think it was you who said, two years ago, "We are not responsible for the supply of electricity in Belgium". You also said in the same interview: "Given the current climate, we will not make new investments in Belgium". In the meantime, several plants have been closed. I would also like you to clarify Drogenbos' situation. With such words and acts, it can be said that Electrabel has carried out a policy of blackmail, I see no other word. The government is questioning nuclear power, questioning your profits, and that's the policy you're pursuing. And blackmail works so well that, two years later, we find ourselves facing a risk of shortage and undoing, with the human tragedies that it can cause. Thousands of households in various situations will be deprived of electricity. They are sometimes people in difficulty and we do not know what human tragedies are going to be caused by these outbursts. For the PTB, it is clear that if these human tragedies happen, we can only hold Electrabel responsible. In this country, one will have to dare to ask the question of the nationalization or expropriation of Electrabel. A society which is so important in the functioning of our country and which does not fulfil its responsibilities and which, worse, blackmails, deserves to ask itself the question at the political level. From the moment that elected politicians take options and Electrabel refuses these options because its profit would not be guaranteed, this poses a problem of democratic deficit. I'll sum it up. Why have these plant closures occurred in the last two years? What about the Drogenbos power station? Do you maintain your statement, which dates back two years, that you are not responsible for the supply of electricity in Belgium? If so, conclusions should be drawn. As well as that, given the current climate, you will no longer make new investments in Belgium. In addition, the question has already been raised as to the possible compensation of consumers in the event of discharge. Will you fulfill your contractual obligations without forcing these consumers to sue you? Do you intend to compensate them voluntarily, assuming your responsibilities? As far as Doel 4 is concerned, what guarantees can you give us that this kind of situation will not happen again, possibly in more problematic areas of the reactor? Several colleagues also asked questions about Doel 1 and Doel 2. I associate myself with these questions. As long as you're here, it would be good if we had an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u81	Madam President, everyone today uses the term "crack". This causes – and is quite normal – great fears in the opinion. Could leaks occur because of these crevices? Is this term "crack" appropriate or not? Besides, I heard that in your speech, you used the word "flake". Is it a synonym for inclusion, a crack? Could you speak formally and firmly to put an end to certain fantasies? By extending power plants with cracks or flakes, won't you find yourself in the wrong place? On the other hand, with regard to liability, I would not like to push the nail. However, there are procedures in the nuclear sector. Since you have not been able to prevent an act of sabotage in-house – because I would be surprised if an intruder had committed it – security procedures should be seriously reviewed. Indeed, whether we like it or not, Electrabel has been unable to guarantee the protection of a highly strategic tool. I read in the press that the next government plans to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2 by ten years. At the end of 2015, however, there will be no more fuel. It takes a lot of time to recommend it: we're talking about a year or two. Of course, it can be obtained urgently, but – as with everything else – it is by increasing the price of supply. How do you intend to act so that it can work?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u82	Madam President, many questions have been asked covering the various areas. Perhaps we should start with conventional power plants, including Ruien, and with the problem of whether we are still investing. We have already made a lot of investments in TGV power plants to increase flexibility, decrease the minimum power, increase the speed with which the power plant reaches 100% power. A whole series of initiatives have already been taken in recent years to increase flexibility. As part of the various measures I have presented to you on the penultimate slide, there is no longer much to be gained. As for Ruien, the site of Ruien has been sold and the plant has already been partially dismantled. It doesn't seem like an easy thing for the new owner to get that power plant back on the grid.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u83	When you say that there is no longer much to gain, does this concern all the measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u84	No! Not all measurements. Only at the level of investments in gas-fired power plants. We've already made the investments to reduce the minimum power, to increase the speed with which you can lead the power plant to full power. As far as the nuclear fleet is concerned, I would like to make it clear that we are indeed the main player for Belgium. But when we look at the Belgian production stock, Electrabel accounts for only 46% of the installed capacity. When it is said that it is only because of nuclear power plants that there is a problem today, I would point out that there is 54% of the Belgian fleet which belongs to other operators and where we have no responsibility. Compared to the nuclear fleet, in all the decisions we make, we give absolute priority to nuclear safety. When, in March of this year, we were confronted with the problem of the test results for Doel 3 and Tihange 2, which did not fit with the experts' expectations, we took the most conservative step and stopped the power plants pending an explanation. It is a decision that shows that, in addition to the discussions about scarcity or benefits, nuclear safety is our top priority. There were a lot of questions about Doel 4. What is the overall principle of access to power plants? Anyone involved in a nuclear power plant has a security clearance, which has been issued by the National Security Authority (NSA). Without security clearance, you're not entering. It is true that there are a lot of stakeholders who have security clearances. In Doel and Tihange, there are a thousand people working, plus, in the event of a review, hundreds of people who have access to the facilities. But not everywhere, because the plant is divided into different areas. You can give access permissions based on the work that needs to be done in a particular area. I won't elaborate on the investigation. The investigation is ongoing and it is in the hands of the judicial police, who will communicate with the outside world in due course. Regarding the timing for Objective 4, the worst case scenario and the best case scenario were asked. Unfortunately, I have to report that some things may go wrong. Together with the suppliers of the parts of the turbines and with the maintenance crews of Electrabel we do everything we can to keep the intervention time as short as possible, but if there is a problem in the supply of, for example, some equipment for the shovels, then that planning may be called into question. However, we want to rely on optimal and realistic planning. Today's realistic planning indicates that the Objective 4 plant should be able to be launched by the end of this year. I can't really say much about the security measures either. However, I can tell you that in the days following the incident, several measures were taken on the Doel site to limit the access of employees and contractual agents present in a particular zone on the 5th of August. All measures have been implemented, both for the site of Goal and for the site of Tihange, and also on all units of Goal and Tihange. So we have not limited ourselves to Objective 4, but implemented these measures on the two nuclear sites of our park. In the classical power stations there is increased alertness, increased vigilance on security and access control.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u85	My question was why only now.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u86	Why didn't you tell me before? A number of measures have been taken in recent years to improve the safety and physical security of our nuclear power plants. I would like to point out that over the last seven years hardware has been completely renewed, for example, the fences of the sites of Goal and Tihange, as well as the control systems around those fences. In recent years, a number of measures have been taken in consultation with the FANC Security Service to comply with the legislation and international standards on security controls of people on the sites. A measure that was introduced three years ago is that one enters as at an airport and checks the digital fingerprints. All vehicles are also subject to stricter checks. A number of measures have been taken in recent years, which are being strictly followed up and further measures have been taken in response to the incident, which I cannot elaborate on. Regarding the timing for Objective 3 and Tihange 2, the first months after the shutdown of the power station at the end of March it was a bit difficult to give a precise timing for the restart. We announced quite quickly that the complete safety record would be available by the end of the autumn. That timing will be maintained. I understand that at the FANC there was some concern, because there were no intermediate results, but as I explained to you, it is a whole puzzle that has to fit together. One cannot rely on a test result of one or a few pieces to draw conclusions from it and already communicate those results to the FANC and to the outside world. We choose not to communicate immediately on the strategy, which has also been continuously updated for the results of the tests, and to submit a solid dossier to the FANC, which will then give an opinion together with its international experts. It is therefore far too early to draw conclusions from the interim results. The conclusions come with the global conclusions, which were announced before the end of autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u87	Madam President, I will answer the remaining four less technical questions. The most important question has already been raised by Mr FEBEG's fellow Members, in particular the question of responsibility. I will simply summarise the position of the sector and you may find that it is quite coherent with what my fellow Members have already said. Firstly, of course, we understand your reaction, because the consequences of a shortage of electricity are very great, both for families and for industry. That is, of course, a legitimate concern and we fully recognise it. Secondly, our commitment to electricity supply is very clearly at two levels. On the one hand we have customers: with them we have contracts, we have to treat them correctly and we have to provide as many services as possible according to the circumstances. On the other hand, we also have contractual obligations towards Elijah. However, I would like to remind you that the system of responsibility for ensuring sufficient availability of electricity is really regulated upstream of the supply chain throughout Europe. For example, an ARP, an Access Responsible Party, may or may not be in balance and bring as much into the system as it needs for its customers. If that is not the case, the economic consequences for that operator are clearly built in. It has already been said today: these economic consequences are quite far-reaching, they are consequences for the supplier who is in imbalance and whether or not it represents a global imbalance. But again, that is a piece of market organisation, it is a kind of generic way of market organisation in Europe. As far as the supply of customers is concerned, what makes the whole discussion so difficult? When there are deficits in the global system, the way energy is preferably made available to the market is also partly based on a political choice setting priorities. When we say that the suppliers are the victims, we actually mean that in the event of shortages, suppliers do not determine who gets electricity and who does not. That's not how it works. Those who are in order as ARP 100 % are therefore not yet sure that their customers will preferably be able to use electricity. The philosophy of the system is that it is collectiveised; it is a collectively optimized system. I understand that this is difficult to accept from the point of view of the baker and the carpenter, but that is how the system was conceived. What we can do for our customers is to sensitise them, and when deficits are involved, in coordination with governments, contribute to good communication, so that customers would show the right behaviour, consume less and shift their consumption depending on the need. We can also, as Mr De Clercq has explained, assist our customers in digesting the consequences, for example by additional diesel generators or other means. That is the commitment we can and want to make. However, we cannot replace other market players who decide which customer receives electricity earlier. The most important thing is that we, upstream, of course, do everything we can to ensure that our production equipment functions optimally and to restart our nuclear installations safely as soon as possible. That is the collective responsibility of our production teams. The same applies to the other producers. In the past, the concept of the market was completely different. Then all the functions were integrated. With liberalisation, the market organisation has been commemorated, and thus the way in which we operate. So far, the first part about responsibility. There was the question of how much extra megawatts we make available to the market. That is a question that we are also getting wider, in political circles. I understand them, but unfortunately we cannot really answer them. It is not about double use with support services. This is additional capacity that we want to make available for the next winter, but all this capacity is not cumulative over time. Shifting the maintenance of Tihange 1 takes place at a certain point in time. We have also reorganised ourselves not to do the maintenance of our classic and other power stations in winter. Those are all won volumes at different times in time. We can't just add that up to a reasonable figure. It is not right to just add that up and then say that we are going to have so much extra capacity. Unfortunately, therefore, I cannot give a clear answer. The cost of this is the responsibility of the producer. That's part of his operating costs. There was also a question about cost if nuclear units other than Tihange 1 would be extended. We know that cost. Because this has been clearly agreed with the FANC and the whole action plan is clear, we know that it concerns EUR 600 million. For Objective 1 and Objective 2, the government must decide first. This will also be the subject of a debate in Parliament. Then the FANC will have to enter into a discussion with us, assuming that it is a go, what exactly investment plan they want. Only then will we be able to put a figure on it. If we did that already, we would not be respecting the FANC's responsibilities. I think I have raised the most important points. We do not want to go into extending the life of the power stations. It does not make much sense to take a position on this, as no decision has yet been taken. A further question was asked about Objective 1. Can Objective 1 run in the coming winter? Normally, the take-off was organised on 15 February. For example, the planning has been completed and the use of the fuel has been adjusted accordingly. It is no longer possible to order fuel for the remaining short period, because the deadline is too short and it is about limited quantities. It is possible, but there is time to stop in an equivalent period and continue using the fuel, i.e. to organise the management of the fuel according to the objective. The framework in which that can happen is not unlimited. There is therefore a certain sense of urgency for the operator to organise it in this way. I do not know whether my colleague De Clercq would like to add anything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u88	I would still like to answer the question about cracks. You can use a wide range of terms but do not use the word "crack". You can use "inclusion", "flakes", "insluitsels", "hydrogen failure"... "Fissure" is not the right word.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u89	Madam President, I would like to go back to the micro-cracks – even if we can no longer use this term – that are on the tanks, it seems, since they were installed. Is that correct? In the graph you showed us, we see that since 2012, the availability of the nuclear power plant has fallen between 70 and 75%. Why haven't we already talked about clearing in 2012 or 2013? You say that you are a major player in nuclear power, but in fact you are not the majority, you are the only and the only one in the nuclear sector. I am also surprised by the market share that you attribute to yourself as a manufacturer of electricity. You say you produce 46% and the others produce 54%. I do not understand since it is said that nuclear power in Belgium is 54% and that, in addition to nuclear power, you still have other power plants. We have the impression that you make 70% of electricity production in Belgium and suddenly you only make 46% today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u90	Madam President, by linking up with the hearing earlier, we feel that there is a little game going on: "I'm not the one responsible, I wash my hands, I'm going to hand over to others and I don't want to be responsible". It's too easy! If Doel 3 and Tihange 2 were not at the standstill, we would not have had all these meetings! There's Doel 4 more. But now we still have to see. That's why I didn't mention it, but you're right to add it. If we were not faced with this lack of management on your part, we would not have to ask ourselves the question so clearly today. You have an extremely important share of responsibility. It's easy to dilute it in the organization of the market, in the technicality, the legal complexity, whatever you want. There are plenty of arguments! It's like a crack. There are twenty-five synonyms. "Estafilade" is beautiful! I didn't know that word. On the word "responsibility", you mustn't turn around the pot. Responsibility is obvious at the starting point. This does not mean that you are the only one and that you will be the only one to have to answer later. But the starting point of the problem today is your disability... while you have always presented nuclear as safe and certain, your slides show it, 90% etc. Suddenly, 50% of the park is at a standstill and there is still no explanation! You say you're fast, you're trying to do as much as you can, you're investigating, and so on. The problem has arisen since June 2012! On such a fundamental point, we still have no answer more than two years later, and you would like to wash your hands and say that you are not responsible for this! I have doubts and I would like to express them to you so as not to turn around the pot. You say you'll only reopen if you get all the guarantees. Okay, but you've already reopened before you have to close! You thought you had all the guarantees. Aren't you a little uncomfortable about it? I assume that if you reopened, it was because at that time you thought you had received all the guarantees. But you had to close, but you didn't know when you were going to reopen. For Doel 3 and Tihange 2, I have a more technical question about provisions. If closure is faster, what about the provision for dismantling? How is it organized? With regard to Doel 4, do you believe that it is prudent and safe, to resume your term, to reopen if - at the time when the question arises - you do not have accurate knowledge of the facts that have occurred or of the identity of the perpetrator? In this case, since it was someone who had an accreditation, are you going to ask yourself – at the time you will technically be able to reopen – if the perpetrator is still there without your knowledge? In terms of security, will you have all the guarantees if you ignore, at that moment, who it is? It's a matter of principle. We quickly swept away the police question by saying that she was doing her job – and that's right. We hope to receive information on this case very quickly. However, three security officers have been suspended... Is this a measure you have taken, that you have supported, that you find relevant? This was not addressed. Today, you tell us that the best option for Doel 4's reopening is December 31. Previously, it was announced on August 18 or September 15. These are some additional questions, but my point was more important.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u91	When you are told about responsibility, you say that it is mainly the others who are responsible because you have only 46% of the market share.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u92	I suggest that you do not repeat questions that have already been asked. Please ask new questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u93	I just wanted to come up with the question of this percentage of capacity. You're talking about 46% capacity. Mr Friart has already asked a question about nuclear power. You are awarded 50% market share as a supplier. Can you explain the situation, the part you have as a producer and supplier? What are the flows that flow between the two? What is your situation in terms of balance and imbalance?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u94	I have a new question. You have lost the means of production, you have demonstrated it today. You will probably have to rely on import capacity. Do you think that this winter these import capacities will be available for you? This is important for our 3,500 MW interconnection reserves. Do you have any assurances about your import capabilities, if you need them to cover your customers' demand this winter? With regard to Doel 1, which is scheduled to close in February 2015, you said that you were going to try to manage the fuel before winter to have it again this winter, since you cannot import it within two months or within four weeks. I didn't understand, could you explain it again or give more details?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u95	Madam President, I have a few more elements, new questions and questions that have not yet been answered. Mrs Heyvaert, Mr De Clercq, with regard to Objective 1 and Objective 2, I agree with the President's question. I had understood from your answer that, if there is not a decision soon, the slope to slide a bit with Objective 1 and Objective 2 and win one or two winters, because of the fuel is not an option. That is how I understood it, but I think you can be quite clear about the short-term. Mrs Heyvaert, I do not entirely agree with your interpretation of the lifetime extension of Tihange 1. You say you can't put an amount on that, as the FANC has to. The FANC has always refused to give a ruling on the necessary investments. At the time we discussed the lifetime extension of Tihange 1 here, there was a table of Electrabel containing 600 million euros, with an estimate that you yourself made. Electrabel's spokesmen have never failed to put an amount on that for the first time. It strikes me that the amount seems to be constantly increasing: at the time of the protocol it was 800 million for the three and in the meantime it has become 600 million for Tihange 1 and 1 billion for Objective 1 and Objective 2 together, as we read in the newspaper. So I think it's interesting to have some assessment. You have not yet answered the following simple question. You have made that clear in the past, perhaps it should be possible now. Are you able, purely for your own customers, with whom you have a contract, to achieve security of supply next winter, yes or no? Finally, following on from Mr Nollet's remarks, I share this impression with a number of colleagues in our committee, we cannot become a court without a nuance here, and as a Member of Parliament we must know the important laws of physics in order to follow the energy dossier. So it is not a simple problem, but I find the way in which you have made almost everything and everyone responsible for the present problems, during the last speech, unacceptable. You're even going to sensitize the baker and the benefactor how they're supposed to deal with the power crisis. I find your argument that you have only x percent shares in the production market and that it is up to politics to shape things unacceptable. At a time when three of your large nuclear power stations, which you have claimed for years to be 100% safe and secure, are being dropped, you are trying to play the blackbird in a very clear way. I find that incomprehensible. Madam President, with regard to compensation and responsibility, I have a specific question. It is an issue in which I believe all the committee members are interested. It would be good to ask the CREG to bring the necessary material tomorrow. We have heard a lot of voices here about compensation and responsibilities. It would be good to say that our committee is particularly interested in this. Perhaps the energy regulator can provide the clarity that the committee seeks. This is more in line with the rules governing the work, but I wanted to give it to you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u96	Mr Calvo, the CREG will be here tomorrow, but it may be short.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u97	Mr Calvo, I would like to return to your questions concerning Tihange 1. Indeed, it is true that the operator submits a file to the FANC. The FANC may or may not approve that dossier. The file submitted, which sets out the works to be carried out, is of course subject to a price. For Tihange 1, that was EUR 600 million at the time, so that's right. It is the responsibility of the operator to submit a file on the extension of service life. This was done for Objective 1 and Objective 2, the files of which were submitted in 2012 without precise calculations, because the file only reflects the concepts of a lifetime extension. When a lifespan is really extended, everything has to be worked out, such as the engineering and design of the proposed changes and changes. To give you an idea, in 2012 Tihange 1's lifetime extension was approved. Today, we are now two years on, the first concrete changes to the plant are being carried out. So it took two years to study all the changes, to order the materials and spare parts and so on. I'd like to explain the issue of fuel for Objectives 1 and 2 in more detail. How does that work? It is now September 2014 and Target 1 is normally closed on 15 February 2015. That's the scheduled closing date. Since that law was adopted in 2012, we have optimised the management of the fuel for that reactor. So we do not just have new fuel available. The fuel for a nuclear reactor cannot be compared with fueling a car at a petrol pump, after which one can continue driving. For a nuclear reactor one can say that one third of the fuel elements are replaced per cycle, and one cycle lasts for about 18 months. That third of fuel elements must be ordered in advance and the delivery period takes about 16 to 18 months, a little depending on the time of ordering. The Objective 1 reactor comes to the end of its cycle on 15 February 2015. By then, the fuel present at the moment will be turned off. There is still very little energy in it, at least not enough to keep that reactor running any longer. If, in a theoretical case, we decided to have this plant run after 15 February, the reactor must be opened up and one third of the fuel contained in it must be replaced. It can't be because no fuel has been ordered. How can the plant be operated longer than 15 February? By saving on fuel now. What one now saves, one can use after 15 February. If one now decides to shut down the power station for a month, one can theoretically make an abstraction of the legal context and the approval of the FANC after 15 February a month longer. Then the power station can turn until March 15th. If one says that Objective 1 must be available until the end of March, one must quickly decide to shut down the plant for about six weeks. See? That's the way it works. Target 2 is a different story. For Objective 2, there will be no problem in the coming winter. It will be available in the coming winter. If one says that Objective 2 is to be made available for the next winter, the alternative solution is to stop Objective 2 for several months in the summer. Then one can re-use the power station in the winter I make abstraction of the legal context. The law is clear today: on 1 December Objective 2 will be shut down, on 15 February Objective 2. Let us take this as an abstraction. As far as fuel is concerned, these plants can theoretically be kept open for longer. Is that clear to everyone? As far as nuclear capacity is concerned, when I speak of 46%, it is installed capacity. Let's not forget that Tihange 1 is 50% EDF owned, which means EDF owns 500 megawatts. For Doel 3, Doel 4, Tihange 2 and Tihange 3, EDF and Luminus own 10%. But Electrabel is the operator of the Doel and Tihange sites. As far as provisions are concerned, it is clear that in the worst case scenario where the plants do not restart, this will have a significant impact on the provisions because provisions for dismantling will have to be anticipated. To date, I have no idea exactly what this represents. In addition, the sequence of dismantling will have to be reviewed at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u98	Mr Nollet, let them answer everything first. We are not going to have a whole debate here on nuclear supplies.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u99	Is it safe to reopen the Doel 4 power plant? I will be clear about that. If we are ready for Doel 4 turbine repairs, we will submit the file to the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. It will give its approval for a restart and will define the conditions for the possible restart of the plant. It is far too early to make statements about this today and to guess what might happen. I have every confidence in the judicial investigation. We have to wait and see the results. With regard to the security officers who were suspended, I should like to point out that they were security officers of a contracting firm working on Doel's site. Apparently, the measure that was taken within that company has nothing to do with the event of August 5 or with the ongoing investigation at Doel's site.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u100	There are other things that can happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u101	Besides, we didn't ask for anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u102	We'll finish. There was still a question about import.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u103	On import, the question was whether we intend to use our reserved portion of imports. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u104	And you think she'll be free? Will there be no problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u105	That is to say, the reservations have been taken and we hope that, at the import level, the capacity will actually be available.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u106	Are you there for the coming winter, as you mentioned earlier, sure to be able to supply your own customers?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u107	We have said several times that we do not commit ourselves and take responsibility, but take responsibility for synthesizing everything. Today's discourse was that we take our responsibility where we can do it as the responsible operator of nuclear installations, without taking any risk. As far as our customers are concerned, we can only make sure that as much production capacity as possible is available, so that we can effectively upstream that was your demand as ARP can meet our obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u108	Can you encrypt your market share instead of repeating "yes, yes"?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u109	When they couldn't figure, I am thinking in particular of increasing investment opportunities, they said so. We don't know how high they can increase megawatts. So we are stopping the debate. Everyone was able to speak, and that's so much better, because all the questions were legitimate. I thank the representatives of the Febeg, Electrabel and those of the Creg, who will be able to comment tomorrow. I would remind you that the committee will begin at 2 p.m. We will hear the presentation from the Creg. Then you'll ask your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u110	Madam President, at the end of work with Elia last week, three documents were requested. Did you receive them? Or did Elia answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u111	We have sent an e-mail, but we have not yet received an answer. If we don't have one, we'll insist. As soon as we get one, we'll pass it on to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u112	Madam President, could you tell the people of the CREG, as far as possible, I know that tomorrow is a short day, that the whole problem of responsibility and compensation is of particular interest to us as a committee? I understand that it is short notice, but if it can be taken into account as far as possible in the presentation tomorrow, it can only strengthen the work of our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-23-54-commissie-ic007x.u113	The deadline is a little short. Legal responsibility is analyzed by the SPF Economy but nothing prevents us from asking the question and asking for a note on the subject afterwards.
