ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-02-54-commissie-ic031x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question had already been put before the mission to Malaysia took place. We've been able to track that through the media. Several media reports in newspapers, on the internet and in the journal "Journal" show that there is a conflict between our country and Malaysia regarding the use of palm oil. Various distribution chains use emblems to indicate that there is palm oil in the product. This gives the impression that the product may or may not be harmful. Apparently, there has been a lot of discussion, including in the previous legislature, with the High Health Council. The media announced that Malaysia would address this issue during the recent mission in which the State Secretary participated. Did that theme come up? I have also seen that there was even a diplomatic incident about the discussion on palm oil and the labelling used in Belgium. On the other hand, I have seen media reports after the mission, in which one writes that via Belga I read that Belgian companies have signed twelve contracts in Malaysia, including contracts on the additional import of palm oil. There must therefore have been a constructive discussion about the use of palm oil. Hence my questions. Did the theme come up during the mission? Probably. Is it going to be a diplomatic incident? What is the government's position on the use of palm oil and labelling?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-02-54-commissie-ic031x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, last week I took part in the economic mission in Malaysia and Singapore under the chairmanship of Princess Astrid who represented the King. I would like to say a few words about this mission. This mission was a great success with more than 300 participants and more than 150 companies represented. This for the setting. The countries were particularly well chosen because they have good economic growth rates. They are a good base for the ASEAN countries. ASEAN is going to play an increasingly important role. For Singapore, a free trade agreement with the European Union has entered into force fairly recently. For Malaysia, such an agreement is at the negotiating stage. Thanks to this mission, our companies were able to position themselves to explore these new opportunities with regard to trade. Numerous political contacts took place during the mission. I myself had very extensive and interesting contacts and talks with my colleagues from Malaysia and Singapore. I also took the opportunity to present Belgian companies to the ministers. In this way, these companies were able to bring forward specific items relevant to their agenda. So there were many contacts between companies and numerous contracts were concluded. In addition, we also visited large Belgian investments in these countries, for example Aegis, DEME and Katoen Natie. [[That's just a few of them.]] It concerns not only large and particularly large companies, but also small players who need to know a role. I have also highlighted Belgium's assets as a destination country for investment at a power lunch in Singapore where many managers of major Singaporean companies were present. I now come to the specific answer to the questions you have put. The impact of the discussion on the anti-palm oil labels on the exchange mission can be seen as positive in that I have had several high-level contacts that have contributed to a positive and open discussion of the issue. So we could indicate that our country has eyes and ears for Malaysian concerns. In addition to the exchange mission, contact was also made with the sector concerned. On 15 October, for example, a delegation from the Malaysian Palm Oil Council was received by the administration at its request at the Foreign Affairs Office. There were no problems with the organization of the economic mission. The Minister of Plants, Industries and Commodity has received our ambassador in the run-up to the mission and has promised his full cooperation in the organisation of the parts of the programme. During the mission itself, the issue was discussed several times, including during the meeting with the Prime Minister and the Minister of International Trade and Industry and during our visit to the UniOleon factory where the Minister of Plants, Industries and Commodity was also present. I took a personal note of the Malaysian position on labelling and promised to inform the relevant ministers in Belgium about the Malaysian concerns. It was stated by the Belgian side that this practice also exists for other products, including sugar, of which our country is an important producer. It was pointed out that this initiative was based on the private sector and that the consumer's right to be informed about the composition of the product was also stressed, without encouraging the use of negative labelling. In fact, we received a message there, and I also said that in my press conference, and we took that message back to Belgium. Now I will discuss them with the various actors in order to propose a constructive solution. The Minister responsible is in Belgium between now and 14 days, perhaps then we can follow up our discussions. There was no hedgehog theorem in any way. That is my answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-02-54-commissie-ic031x.u3	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I look forward to the follow-up and discussion with the various actors. I also understand that the Minister responsible will come and that the file will then be followed up.
