ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I was asked about the situation of the Roma in Macedonia: their living conditions would be particularly problematic in this country, they would be discriminated against, making their integration into Macedonian society almost impossible. Mr Secretary of State, what information do you have to confirm or reverse this difficult situation of the Roma in Macedonia? If so, can this situation constitute an argument in favour of asylum applications in Belgium by persons from the Macedonian Roma community?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. The integration of Roma was one of the benchmarks that the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM) and the other Western Balkans had to meet before they could be considered for visa exemption. This criterion is still being examined within the framework of the mechanism for monitoring the liberalisation of the visa regime, post-visa liberalisation monitoring mechanism (PVLMM). Among the five visa-exempt Western Balkans, a final PVLMM report published in December 2013 shows that FYROM is the best student in this field: "In the area of fundamental rights, the Action Plan on Roma Inclusion is currently being implemented. This plan includes measures to improve access to employment, education, housing and personal documents. To date, eleven Roma information centres have been opened to assist Roma members in accessing social and educational services. Two projects are currently being implemented: a project on legal aid to the Roma community and a regional project on best practices in Roma integration in the Western Balkans. Finally, the Commission for Protection against Discrimination plans to appoint a representative of the Roma community." The European Union is therefore fully aware that Roma are a specific group whose rights and opportunities for integration require special monitoring, which is indeed the case. Moreover, as you know, FYROM has been on the Belgian list of safe countries of origin since 1 June 2012. This list was drawn up on the basis of an opinion of the Office of the General Commissioner for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA). A country is considered safe when, from a general point of view and in a sustainable manner, persecution within the meaning of the Convention on Refugees is not used and there is no real risk of serious harm in the following cases: the legal situation of the country, the application of the law and the general political conditions in the country of origin and the possibility of obtaining protection against acts of persecution or ill-treatment. This is therefore tantamount to considering that asylum seekers from these countries, including Roma from FYROM, do not in principle need international protection. However, this does not preclude the granting of international protection status by the CGRA. Indeed, each asylum application is still subject to individual examination. Where an asylum-seeker is able to prove that his/her specific situation requires protection, he/she may be granted protection. The practice shows that, as far as FYROM is concerned, this measure applies only in a very limited percentage of cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u3	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for these very comprehensive answers and I therefore intend to relay all this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in the face of the continuing flow of migrants to the Italian coasts and the sad shipwrecks and other incidents that are sparking the latter's attempts to reach our continent, Italian Minister of the Interior Angelino Alfano calls for a European plan to manage this phenomenon. According to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), 75 000 migrants set foot in Italy, Greece, Spain and Malta in the first part of 2014, 25% more than in 2013 and three times more than in 2012. The Italian Minister of the Interior will shortly meet with the European Commissioner for Home Affairs, Cecilia Malmström, on this subject. The Commission has already called on all the Member States of the Union to provide assistance to the Mediterranean countries mentioned above. Mr Secretary of State, what is your analysis of this increase in migratory flows in southern Europe? What is your position with regard to the Italian proposal for a European plan? Are you planning to engage Belgium in actions to assist the Mediterranean countries in dealing with this problem? If so, what would you prefer?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u5	Madam Member, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. After a decrease in the number of border crossings via the Mediterranean in 2012, the trend continued upwards in 2013 and 2014. They are mainly Syrians who seek asylum from the European Union. They pass through both the eastern Mediterranean and the central Mediterranean. Many Eritreans and Afghans also follow these routes. With regard to the composition of migrant groups, there was an alarming increase in the number of women and children, most of whom came from Libya. This is mainly due to the unstable situation in the country, which offers fertile ground for criminal gangs and trafficking networks. Egypt is also an important starting point. This upward trend continued and even strengthened in 2014. During the first half of the year, the number of illegal border crossings was highest since the Arab spring. The largest group of migrants arrived via the maritime border in Italy (almost 50 per cent), Greece and Malta. In addition to Syrians and Eritreans, there were also large numbers of Malians during this period. Libya, however, remains by far the largest country of departure. In total, between January and August 2014, some 163 000 illegal border crossings were recorded across the EU's external borders, compared with 107 000 for the whole of 2013. In October 2013, Italy launched Operation Mare Nostrum off the Libyan coast, the main objective being to increase maritime surveillance and save human lives. In this context, the Italian navy deployed several ships as well as other means in the Sicily Canal between Italy and Tunisia. The Italian operation Mare Nostrum was officially arrested at the end of October. But, according to recent information, the Italian navy will still carry out rescue operations. Meanwhile, a Frontex operation called Triton was launched. This is probably the European plan to which you referred. This operation does not replace Italian operation Mare Nostrum. Here we are talking about the operation resulting from the merger of Frontex Hermes and Aeneas operations, which will be operational in the territorial waters of Italy and Malta. I can already tell you that Belgium will take part in this mission. In 2015, an officer will participate in Operation Triton. This officer's task will include supporting the investigation of smuggling networks, which is an essential part of the mission. To answer your third question, following the tragedy that took place off the coast of Lampedusa, which cost the lives of 350 migrants, the Task Force for the Mediterranean (TFM) responsible for developing short- and medium-term measures was set up so that in the future such tragedies would not happen again. This task force led by the European Commission (DG Internal Affairs, Directorate Asylum and Migration) brought together all stakeholders: the Member States, different Commission DGs, the European Service for Internal Action, the European Union Agency. In December 2013, it resulted in a Commission communication on an action plan containing 38 measures. I would like to point out that Belgium has always played a role in the TFM. It took part in both meetings of the TFM and made a written contribution to the Commission's Communication of 4 December 2013. For Belgium, the essential task of the TFM is to use in a coordinated and coherent manner the abundant arsenal of instruments that are already used or made available, rather than to introduce new initiatives and activities. Although TFM's attention focuses on the development of concrete actions in the short term, a comprehensive and long-term solution must be found. Furthermore, Belgium considers that cooperation with the third countries concerned is the most appropriate area of action to avoid further humanitarian tragedies, both in terms of border control and prevention of illegal migration and in the fight against organised crime linked to trafficking and trafficking in human beings. However, Belgium is well aware of the political and practical obstacles which make it difficult to cooperate with these third countries. Belgium has also actively participated in the Commission's inventory work. Several activities such as prevention campaigns, capacity building in the development of asylum and migration systems, voluntary return and reintegration assistance programmes have been included in the TFM implementation catalogue. It has also undertaken actions in areas other than migration, such as missions to Libya and Niger under the common security and defence policy. I am also thinking of its contribution to the COSI (Standing Committee on Internal Security) Operational Action Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u7	Question No 90 by Mrs Fabienne Winckel is transformed into a written question. We shall wait a moment with Question No 5, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for the European People's If he arrives later, we will perhaps add the question to the end of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u8	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, at the beginning of November, worrying information came to me from Burundi, revealing that the number of Burundian nationals expelled to Bujumbura would increase significantly. It is via SN Brussels Airlines that these expulsions would be carried out from Belgium but also from other European countries. It would appear that there are agreements between Belgium and other States, in particular Norway, to coordinate such expulsions. Mr Secretary of State, do you confirm this information? What is the number of Burundian nationals expelled in 2013 and 2014, so that we can check if there is a significant increase? Lastly, were there any agreements with Norway or other States to coordinate such expulsions to Burundi?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u9	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, no increase in repatriations to Burundi has been recorded. On the contrary! In 2013, 5 repatriations were organized to that country and only 2 in 2014, until 7 November. For repatriations, Belgium is indeed calling on Brussels Airlines, since this company offers a direct flight to Bujumbura. Belgium has not concluded an agreement with other European countries on returns to Burundi. Nor did we see an increase in refoulement; only one in both 2013 and 2014. The cases to which you refer are expulsions to Burundi carried out by States other than Belgium with transit through Brussels. It is therefore not Belgium which ensures these removals. Each State shall decide independently who shall be removed from its territory. If the removal must be accompanied by a transit, it shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the European Transit Directive 2003/110/EC. Over the past year, there has indeed been an increase in transit through Brussels to Burundi. This year, a total of 21 transits were carried out to Burundi, 18 of which came from Norway. Ten took place in September, although none had taken place throughout the first quarter. Each State shall decide independently who shall be removed from its territory. This is therefore a decision of Norway and Norwegian escorts.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u10	Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for this answer, which does help to clarify the situation. It is indeed important to be able to properly reframe the information we receive.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u11	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Bonte's 438 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u12	Mr President, I should like to take this opportunity to ask Mr Dewinter for his question. 174 to be converted into a written question. Mr Secretary of State, there is the recent important judgment in which the European Court of Justice has ruled that economically inactive citizens of the European Union, who go to another Member State for the sole purpose of receiving social assistance there because they do not have sufficient resources of their own, may be excluded from social benefits. This has already been applied in the past and a number of EU citizens have been denied the right of residence for this reason. They constitute an unreasonable burden on the Belgian social security system. The latest figures I have at my disposal date from 2012 and then 1 917 residence permits were issued by EU citizens who were withdrawn because they were an unreasonable burden on the social security system. I am therefore aware that this measure is already being applied today, but I would ask very specifically whether this judgment will be used to strengthen the benefit tourism of EU citizens in this country? Do you envisage any legislative changes so that maximum use can be made of the possibilities offered by this judgment and by European legislation to limit the benefit tourism of EU citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u13	Mr President, Mrs Pas, I have already gone into this very extensively at last week's committee meeting. I therefore thought that the questions on this matter would be deleted. Neither you nor Mr Ducarme were present last week and I will repeat my reply briefly. I have the honour to provide you with the following information. Judgment of 11 November 2014 in Dano C-333/13. I have instructed my administration and my staff to investigate the judgment further. It can already be stated that the judgment relates mainly to mixed benefits. This means that benefits which have some characteristics of social assistance are not covered by contributions and are, in part, the characteristics of a social security contribution or insurance principle. In Belgium, it is only the income replacement allowance for disabled people introduced by the Law of 27 February 1987 and the income guarantee for older people introduced by the Law of 22 March 2001. The scope of this judgment therefore covers only some 300 cases. We will look into this further, and we can then discuss it further.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u14	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Firstly, I have been present as much as possible and I have also made my point in presenting your policy statement. However, I also had to ask a number of questions in the Committee on Finance and I cannot be present in all committees at the same time. Secondly, you think that this is only about 300 files. I interviewed your colleague, Mr Peeters, and he said that there are about 600 applications a month specifically for unemployment benefits. People are still hiding behind the right to free movement for people within Europe, and this is still being done as an explanation for the fact that these things cannot be dealt with in depth. Last year, the Interior Ministers of Germany, the Netherlands, Austria and the United Kingdom sat together to see whether they could not adapt European regulations and whether they could not take any other legal steps since they could not do enough to tackle benefit tourism. I hope that you are thinking more broadly and that you are aware that the free movement of persons and the whole of Schengen legislation are causing serious problems. These problems, such as social security tourism from countries such as Romania and Bulgaria, will not be solved by the current European legislation. I therefore urge you to question this regulation and to take action in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u15	Mrs Pas, for the sake of clarity, according to our first screening of the judgment, the scope will consist of only three hundred files. These are mixed benefits, only the income guarantee for the elderly and the income replacement for the disabled. (...): (...) Let me finish. I do not know exactly what question you have asked Mr Peeters: was it this judgment or was it more about the fact that in our country it is still the case that after a day as an employee is already entitled to benefits? That's another discussion. There is still a lot to talk about and very interesting insights can grow in the coming months and years with regard to that one-day arrangement. No one is imposing that on us, that is something that is almost unique in Europe. That is a first point. Secondly, I would like to stress that Mrs De Block, at my insistence in the previous legislature, has begun a thorough screening of the principle of unreasonable taxation. Article 32a of the Aliens Act provides that the residence of EU citizens may be withdrawn if they no longer fulfil the initial residence conditions or if they constitute an unreasonable burden on the social assistance system of the Kingdom. It's about thousands of people. Since 2003, the application has been very strict and the linking of databases has been established. Since then, thousands of Europeans have been removed from assistance. You didn't say nothing was going to happen, but things are happening already. We will investigate the judgment. It's not about a lot of cases, but I'm giving the administration time to go over that further. I put it that way in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, I have indeed not begun to say that nothing is happening. I have quoted the most recent figures available to me. In 2012, almost 2 000 residence permits were withdrawn, just because of the unreasonable tax. However, my question was whether these cases could be dealt with more strictly, not only in the light of the judgment. I am also thinking of your European colleagues. As far as the free movement of persons and the whole of Schengen legislation are concerned, do you continue to support this? I referred to the fact that Mr Home Affairs Ministers from four countries have sat together to see which regulations at European level need to be stricter in order to allow for a more stringent approach. There are certainly things that can and must be made more stringent in order to tackle the problem here. I therefore hope that you will be able to make that voice heard in Europe, and that your fellow Members will be looking for them to tighten up the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u17	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, it is my responsibility that, since March of this year, the services – including social workers – in the centres for MENA have been completely reorganized from a "classical" weekly work rhythm and from weekend guards to a so-called "cyclical" 12 hours of benefits followed by 12 hours of breaks. It would appear that this new organisation of work is damaging both to the quality of supervision of the young people concerned and to the quality of life of the workers, some of whom sometimes live far away from their place of work and have to count on long hours of travel. To this it is necessary to add a rate of supervision of young people, several of which, including those relating to matters relating to youth assistance, have already stressed the particularly weak character. Mr Secretary of State, is an assessment of this new pace of work planned? If so, what is the deadline? Does this evaluation take into account or take into account the impact on the quality of service provided to young people in particularly sensitive situations? Are there any arrangements, particularly for older workers, for which these rates of work are particularly difficult? What about this level of supervision? What measures do you intend to take to improve it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u18	Mr President, Mr Frédéric, first of all, I would like to point out that the question does not concern all the MENA sections, but only the Observation and Guidance Centre (COO) in Neder-over-Heembeek, where a 12-hour shift cycle was set up from March 2014. This hourly system is the result of an in-depth consultation with the staff of the reception centre and the trade union players. The aim of the system is precisely to improve the well-being of workers through the balance between work and rest sequences. This system also takes into account the specific tasks of the COO. The schedule provides for the presence of social workers and attendants in order to ensure a constant observation of the MENA over the duration of their stay. As for your question about the evaluation of this new pace of work, you should be aware that an evaluation is indeed planned in December 2014, that is, later this month. Employees and trade union representatives will be associated. In response to the question on the possible development to be planned, the situations are analysed individually. The path of reducing working time is analysed in particular, although the possibilities for internal mobility remain limited. As for the management rate, it should be noted that the rate of supervision of the COO is already higher than in the other MENA structures, in view of their specific mission of reception. On the other hand, the framework rate is also subject to budgetary restrictions applicable to all administrations. For information, the COO of Neder-over-Heembeek, which has 50 seats, currently has eight attendants, six social workers, one full time, two half time at the reception desk and three night workers. An evaluation will take place this month.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for your reply and say that, in addition to the consultation with the trade union organisations, we must incorporate more concrete elements which are aimed at staff, in particular elderly and remote staff. Indeed, when you work for 12 hours and have a 12-hour break, you just have time to go home if you have Wallonia or Flanders to cross to do so. This is clearly a problem. I just wanted to draw your attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u20	Debates of the European Parliament 549 by Mrs Daphné Dumery was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smeyers' 552 was withdrawn because she was dealt with in the discussion of the policy paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u21	Mr President, Secretary of State, I ask you this question in your capacity as Secretary of State for Administrative Simplification. It's important. On this subject, I have read with great interest the interview of your college, Mrs Elke Sleurs, in the newspaper Het Nieuwsblad concerning the fight against tax fraud. I share his view: no one can fully know the legislation. However, blindness cannot be an excuse for tax evasion. Small businesses will need to be better informed about the issues that affect them so that they no longer have the opportunity to use the excuse of the blind. Mr. Secretary of State, this is a matter of direct concern to you. How do you envisage better informing companies for the reasons given? Your colleague was talking about setting up an informative and didactic website. Can we expect something like this shortly or within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u22	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. I can fully agree with your suggestion, which conveys the recurring concerns of many sectors of the economy. Over the past several years, federal public services and federated entities have taken initiatives to improve the knowledge and dissemination of the legal and regulatory obligations of businesses. For example, in the context of the transposition of the Services Directive 2006/123/EC of the European Union, the Agency for Administrative Simplification (ASA) and FEDICT have set up a site to provide businesses with all the information on administrative procedures (business.belgium.be). The SAA has developed a procedural guide to feed this site. Part of the tax obligations, mainly VAT, can be obtained via this site. The site also allows you to download the list of procedures and then save it in pdf format and/or ask a one-stop shop to introduce the procedure for you. This catalogue must, of course, be updated regularly. This catalogue must, of course, be updated regularly. The successive transfer of powers from the federal to the federated entities led the political authorities to negotiate a cooperation agreement on the implementation of Directive 2006/123. For the federal level, the implementation of this agreement is the responsibility of the FPS Economy. Another more recent example is the Mini One Stop Shop (MOSS). Since October 2014, a single electronic window, the MOSS, on the SPF Finance website is at the disposal of each Belgian company in order to complete in one place all the formalities involved in changing the rules for payment of VAT on certain services. As from 1 January 2015, the European VAT rules will be amended for electronic services, telecommunications services and radio and television services. On that date, VAT will be payable in the buyer's member country. This means that a supplier will have to pay VAT in the countries where its customers are located. Through the MOSS one-stop e-shop, the company can take the steps online. To the extent that my colleagues are taking the appropriate initiatives, I will join forces with my departments in coordinating both complementary and procedural efforts directed towards businesses in order to provide an effective, proactive service which also meets the principle of the singlely ones. Please excuse me for my French. I'm taking intensive classes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, I find this very correct! This is indeed a vast project. I had the opportunity to hear from your colleagues in the government, who were willing to put in place new IT tools as a result of progressive digitization. It goes without saying that a modern public service must go with its time. I also hear the coordination work that awaits you. I hope that this will all succeed and that we will be able to put things in place for the benefit of our small and medium-sized enterprises, which regularly complain about the lack of reliability and, above all, the clarity of certain tools put in place by the public services. If we could think of offering these services in the German language, I would be even happier!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u24	Mr President, I talk every day about asylum and migration. I am therefore very pleased to talk a little about administrative simplification, which, I know, is of great interest to the honourable Members of the MR.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u25	I'll ask you more questions then.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u26	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in this case too, I do not know whether you have already answered the question. [[No]] Still, it's a fact that caught me. In my opinion, the media have a great deal of responsibility in this case. That may not have escaped you either, Secretary of State. But let's go back to the facts. A young Pakistani was thought to be a terrorist while on his way to cricket training. After seeing his photo broadcast by the media, he showed up at the police station of his own free will to explain that there was a misunderstanding. However, the consequences of this malfeasance in the media have been very serious. Thus, his father, who worked at the Pakistani embassy, was dismissed from his duties and, in so doing, was withdrawn from his residence permit. In the end, the whole family will be forced to return to Pakistan. Mr Secretary of State, have you been aware of this fact? Is there any possibility of remedying this situation, or is the federal state out of play, if I can put it that way?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your question concerns information relating to a specific dossier. With regard to the Privacy Act and the Rules of the House of Representatives (Rule 122), I am not in a position to provide you with this information. This is a delicate fact in that it is an individual case which is the subject of a proceeding.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u28	Mr President, Secretary of State, I fully understand your duty as a reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u29	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smeyers' 776 was postponed. Mrs Khattabi is not present to ask her question No 824. All the questions that could be asked have been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u30	I assume that the question No. 824 by Mrs Khattabi expires? That's the rule, since she hasn't apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u31	That will be my decision, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic035x.u32	I'm just saying, for your information, that this was the practice in the previous legislature. This sometimes facilitates the work of the members of the government, who also try to get here on time. MEPs should also try to be on time. It works both ways . Mrs Khattabi even lives in Brussels, if I am not mistaken.
