ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u1	The topical debate brings together a number of questions tabled during the week by Mrs Temmerman and Mr Daerden, Mr Gilkinet, Mr Mathot, Mr Klaps, Mr Van Rompuy and Mr Goffin. Colleagues, you have two minutes to ask your question. In his presentation, the minister has already practically responded to the question of the future of Belfius as well as to Mr Coene's statements. However, I want this topical debate to take place because many colleagues have introduced questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u2	Mr President, Mr Mathot, who is in another committee, asked me to take up his question. May I turn to his and mine in the meantime and thus have four minutes of speaking time?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u3	The Daerdens remain the same! I knew your father on this commission. He reasoned the same way!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u4	Minister, as the President has just said, these are issues that have already been addressed in the discussion this morning but are important. The European Central Bank organised stress tests with the European Banking Authority on 130 major European banks. This great test, organised just before the ECB assumed its supervisory functions, shows which banks are strong and which banks are less strong. Dexia's problem has been highlighted. So the Dexia bank has been kind of sloppy, but it's a bit of a particular bank. You mentioned it. This bank is in full dissolution and is following a plan for dismantling which, moreover, has been approved by the European Commission. This "bad bank" is selling all its assets and enjoys a special status. Minister, the particular status requested of Dexia has been confirmed, but can you assure us that there will be no recapitalisation requested? What's the status of dismantling? Perhaps this is an opportunity to take stock of the situation! Have you had any contact with the leaders? With regard to AXA, can you confirm that the bank has been in order since the results of the analysis were announced? You mentioned in the press the significant risks that remain in the financial sector. What concrete measures, at Belgian level, is the government planning to strengthen Belgian banks? I come to the subject that my colleague Alain Mathot wanted to address, namely Mr Coene, who said: "There are four large banks in Belgium and that is at least one too many". This statement is quite surprising. What is Mr Coene's will? How did he express himself? Mr Minister, do you not think that, in doing so, Mr Coene is emerging from his role? It throws trouble on a bank, which can disrupt both workers and people in connection with this bank. Is it not a mistake to express oneself in this way publicly? Did you reframe the governor a little bit? Have you had an opportunity to discuss it with him? On the basis of the discussions that have taken place since then, one may wonder whether all this is not calculated and is not preparing the way for the sale of Belfius, by the government, as soon as possible. Is there a role-playing game behind that? We are being called into question by this question. Is it not important to keep a bank with a Belgian anchor rather than to favour huge uncontrollable banking groups. Do you not consider it sound and opportune to encourage Belgian banks and various structures in order to protect the financial consumer and spread the risk?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u5	Mr President, I will ask my two questions at the same time. Minister, my predecessor has already said a great deal. I will try to focus on the statements made by the Governor of the National Bank. In a first interview on Channel Z of 30 October, after completing the stress tests, the governor was asked how he saw the Belgian banking landscape evolve within five years. Then Mr Coene said there was at least one big bank too much. In his view, there is genuine competition between the four major banks in our country. This explains the low interest rate. The governor therefore clearly advocated a new wave of fusion. According to him, the banks would better merge or be bought by foreign parties. For the governor of the National Bank of Belgium this seems to me to be a very difficult statement. These statements by the governor may or may not coincide with your ruling on Belfius. In an interview on the VRT journal, you indicated that the state bank Belfius would be better privatised in the long term. In your view, this sale can only be made under market conditions. The latter seems obvious to me. Since then, many foreign banks have shown considerable interest in the acquisition of Belfius. Some potential purchasers would already wish to take a minority stake to avoid missing the boat in order to take over the bank. For the sake of clarity, I did use the conditional wisdom. One should not always believe what is in the media, but some media report on it. I believe you agree with me when I say that the governor has crossed a line. He's the bank supervisor. The National Bank of Belgium must therefore stay far away from politics, but must ensure that the banking sector has all the risk derivatives under control. That's her job. It is not her job to make political statements. The governor really hasn't learned any lessons from the crisis that arose six years ago, even with a banking crisis on top of it. When he is still pleading for large banks, too big to fail, that is a second, additional, very strange ruling for the governor of the National Bank of Belgium. There was a lot of reaction to his words. Apparently, however, that was not enough. After all, that same week followed a second pushover. In an interview in Trends, the governor was very hard hit by those who disputed the reorganisation of public finances. Those who dispute the reorganisation of public finances, those who are going to stop the reorganisation, say to their children that they can go to hell. That was his second verdict. I repeat, she is not really committed to the governor of the National Bank of Belgium. It's not the first time. In August 2012, a hearing was held here in the Finance Committee, albeit in a different composition, because of the governor's political statements. Apparently, that didn't do anything. After all, the current statements are even heavier than his words from the last time. As far as I am concerned, they are totally unacceptable. That's why I had a few questions for you. How do you see the role of the governor of the National Bank of Belgium? What do you think his job description is? How do you pronounce on the governor's statements? Do you condemn them or do you believe that someone in their position can do them? Did you ask the governor to explain his statements? If there has been a discussion, are you prepared to report back to this committee? With regard to the statements themselves, unlike the governor, you are politically placed to say business. Do you follow his reasoning on the banking landscape? Do you also believe that the banks should now merge or be able to be taken over by a foreign bank? What is your view on this? Do you think that banks have a social role and should not necessarily have a balance sheet larger than GDP to fulfil this task? As far as your statements on Belfius are concerned, you say that a sale is certainly possible, but only if market conditions allow it. What do you think are these market conditions? When does the market allow to sell Belfius? Are there any concrete plans for this? Have those plans been put into effect? I just said there'd be potential purchasers. Did you know about that? What amount does the government propose to register in the budget? What dividend has our country received from Belfius in recent years? How do you intend to ensure that, after a possible sale, the Belgian saver at Belfius will be protected in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u6	Minister, when I submitted this question two weeks ago, Belfius appeared in the news every day. Meanwhile, it has been pushed a bit to the background, but it remains a very important file. It became known that Belfius has a portfolio of credit derivatives of no less than EUR 7 billion, with an average maturity of more than seven years and interest rate swaps of EUR 700 billion. One of the consequences of this is that very large amounts must be kept as buffers in the balance sheet. That money cannot be used for other things. Can you confirm that these interest rate swaps are only functional, that in other words they are used to cover interest rate risks on actual loans and not to speculate or to use them as an investment? Do you see opportunities to accelerate the dismantling of these portfolios, so that the amounts released can be used as funding, for which they actually serve? Do these portfolios affect the current value of Belfius? If we come into a sales scenario, what is the real impact?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u7	Mr President, I thought the issue of interest rate swaps would be discussed later. I also have a few questions about it. In the Netherlands, some 200 000 SMEs are currently on the verge of bankruptcy because they have all purchased interest rate swaps. In the meantime, the Dutch stock exchange watchdog has initiated an investigation. It is clear that it is necessary to be able to cover interest rate risks with such derived financial products. The value of the financial contracts shall be derived from their underlying values. The complex variable-rate loans can burden entrepreneurs and investors with very heavy losses. That shows the Netherlands. If the interest rate has decreased in relation to the agreed interest rate, the interest rate swap will receive a negative value. For the affected SMEs, this means higher fixed interest costs. UNIZO confirms that those financial products were also sold to Belgian SMEs. The business organisation has already received a great deal of complaints from entrepreneurs and, in my opinion, rightly blamed the banks for a very poor and misleading information about this. Recently Belfius also became known to carry close to EUR 700 billion in interest rate swaps. Belfius says this is not a problem for her, despite the heavy financial burden. I have the following questions, Minister. Do you know how many SMEs in Belgium may be the victims of these interest rate swaps? Will you also, as the Netherlands has done, instruct the FMSA to investigate this? What measures can be taken now and certainly for the future to protect SMEs, so that they are somewhat protected against them in the future? Do you think that SMEs were adequately informed by the banks in the past? I just said that Belfius has almost EUR 700 billion in interest rate swaps. Belfius himself does not think that is a problem, but I would have liked to hear from you whether that does not have any effect on that bank. What impact could this possibly have on privatisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u8	Mr President, I too have tabled a question on this subject. Most of the questions have already been asked. I too was unhappy with Mr Coene's statements. He issued those statements just after the stress tests, which Belfius, among others, had passed well. That's when the statements came. As so often, the press was released, with articles such as: "State Bank Belfius is saddled with heavy derivatives inheritance'. According to the press, Belfius would be on a EUR 7 billion credit derivatives package, which would generate little revenue. A few days later, a whole discussion of interest rate swaps flared up. Belfius contributes nearly EUR 700 billion of interest rate swaps. As a result, such a bank is naturally placed in a suspicious light. Mr Coene's statements give rise to all kinds of interplays. In Belgium, however, things are moving fast. Soon there were statements from Mr Johan Vankelecom, CEO of Belfius. He could explain that the interest rate swaps were used to cover interest rate risk debt securities, which are carried away from the past, but have to be seen separately from the Dexia inheritance. Mr Minister, a few days later, I saw a large article called "State Bank Belfius" as a takeover bid, in which it was said that the statements by Mr Coene and yourself had aroused interest abroad. You have always been very careful and you have just explained that the bank needs to be mature in time to be taken over or to go to the stock market. However, I believe that it will be a few more years before Dexia's legacy is digested and the banking landscape stabilized. Mr Minister, how do you explain that Governor Coene is suddenly making such a statement, just after we were so pleased with the stress tests? I think you have responded correctly, but the financial press began to involve everything that may be wondering why it is doing so, because it only leads to destabilisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u9	Thank you for the various questions. I will start with the point that requires the shortest answer: AXA. During the procedure initiated by the European Central Bank, it was discovered that there was a lack of capital at AXA. As I recall, at the end of September, this bank did everything it could to make up its capital. As far as Dexia is concerned, one of the key elements of the ECB's asset quality review and the stress test for our country is that it is quite clear to Dexia that, in the current state of affairs, further follow-up of the procedure provided for in the settlement plan is by far the most preferred way. We must, of course, take into account that the resolution of Dexia's positions, the phasing-out or wind-down, is determined in part by market conditions at risk assessment and interest rate evolution levels and so on. At present there is no need for capitalization, but to the extent that circumstances change, there may be another possibility. I repeat that this is not the case at the moment. Mrs Temmerman, allow me to split up the interest rate swaps for the companies and for Belfius. As far as interest rate swaps are concerned, we have, of course, followed the situation in the Netherlands. At the time I took office, there were already contacts with UNIZO and the banks; you have already referred to them. With Minister Peeters, I took the initiative to bring everyone together tomorrow afternoon. We follow that and are aware of the risks. We have also made it clear to the banks that we want clear communication on this issue, with a clear indication of the potential risks associated with such products. All this being said, it is of course interesting for SMEs too, if used correctly, for the simple reason that they allow them to cover the risk. I think it is up to the government to ensure that these resources are used efficiently, usefully and transparently by companies. As regards the interest rate swaps at Belfius, reference has indeed been made to the legacy. That's something from the past that's dragging people along. These seem to be huge amounts, but in terms of the real risks inherent in them, it is a lot less, thank goodness. We look at this closely, in consultation with the people of Belfius. I will continue to inform here at the appropriate time how that portfolio can be reduced and reduced to normal proportions, in line with the bank's global activities. This brings me to the attraction of Belfius and to Mr Coene's statements. First of all, we have not yet received dividends from Belfius because, in the context of the agreements with Europe and the recapitalisation of Belfius, the distribution of dividends has been suspended. I think it was two weeks ago last weekend that we proposed the stress tests. Indeed, it is quite remarkable how, and I have listened to it this morning, things have been moving again in the financial world since then. I used the metaphor this morning that the asset quality review and the stress test was the elephant in the room that took a lot of place, making the room for the other roommates very limited. The elephant is gone now and everyone starts moving again. There is indeed something wrong, and I will choose my words consciously, Mrs Temmerman, a great deal of fuss, and I will not deny that. However, I can assure you that there are no concrete contacts, let alone concrete ones, at the moment. Let there be no doubt that I find Belfius, like our other holdings, a very important participation, not only as a company and equity value, but also as a function of what happens or may happen on the financial market and the Belgian banking market. I repeat what I have said several times. As far as I am concerned, the privatisation of Belfius or other forms of transformation of the current status of Belfius can be considered, under the terms of the government agreement, but always with great discretion and caution. I am referring in particular to the assessment of the various options that could be put on the table, for shareholders and stakeholders, and the impact on the Belgian financial market and banking organisation, but certainly also on the financing of the municipalities. All elements together should be able to lead to action somewhere in the future. The dumbest thing we could do is turn off fixed time frames. I'll never say I want to be around by a certain date. One must be able to complete it in peace and serenity and choose the moment when action may be taken. I refer to the statements made by Mr Coene, the governor of the National Bank of Belgium, about making it clear once again. He is at the head of the institution responsible for the implementation of the ECB's monetary policy and certainly the prudential supervision of the financial sector in the broad sense of the word. What is often forgotten is that the National Bank of Belgium is an integral part of the European system of central banks, the framework of the European Central Bank, but actually of monetary union as a whole. The objectives of the central banks of the European System of Central Banks explicitly state that they should support general economic policy in order to contribute to the objectives of the European Union. In my reading, therefore, the governor can comment on aspects and elements related to the elements of his task, not only in terms of financial stability or monetary policy, but also in terms of competitiveness or possibly making employment policy more effective. That is what he has to do, and that is what he has to do. The National Bank is also an institution with a lot of expertise, where a lot of interesting and relevant research material is produced in the various areas I have just described. Therefore, it does not seem illogical to me that the governor should make statements on the basis of these insights and on the basis of his own insights, for example as a member of the Governing Board of the European Central Bank. That gives him a certain point of view. I'll come to my decision. You asked me what I thought. It is therefore independent, inevitably a consequence of membership of the monetary zone in Europe. This independence ensures that the governor has a free space of movement within his areas of competence to give his vision uninhibited. I therefore take note of his statements, but respect his independence very explicitly. I would like to stress that I believe he has made statements which fit within his competence, but I will leave them to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u10	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, a few things about your answers. First of all, compared to Dexia: no risk at the moment, but the risk is not definitively ruled out, which requires continuous monitoring in order to observe the evolution of the dismantling according to the market and the appearance of adverse effects on our finances. As for the Belfius bank, I mean that you leave the door open to many options in its evolution, but that, when the time comes, there will be a challenge to the current status. I take note of this and we will remain attentive to your timing, which is apparently not yet fixed. As far as Mr Coene is concerned, you are referring to his independence, his autonomy, which I understand, since it corresponds to the pattern set up at European level. However, with such positions, it could put the banking sector and its stability in jeopardy. That is why I think he has gone beyond his duty of reserve and prudence. Even if you did not say so, even though you have announced that you have taken note of his statements, I have not heard that you approve them either.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. We must be careful in dealing with interest rate swaps. It can help SMEs to a large extent, as you pointed out, but if we look at the Dutch example, then we have to note that there is not a very good assessment of the risks involved. In addition, the banks had misinformed them. I believe it is our job to ensure that banks improve that information. I believe that we should organise better supervision of the banks. As far as Belfius is concerned, I believe you have understood that you are referring to the coalition agreement for the sale of Belfius. In the coalition agreement there is something in the spirit of: "If the market is favourable'. I understand from you that you interpret this point much more broadly than just the economic context. According to you, this can also be about how things relate to the municipalities, to all stakeholders, and not just about the possible returns. This seems to me to be a good thing. As far as your last point is concerned, I do not agree with you at all. Of course, the governor is independent and, of course, he must subscribe to European banking policy, but I do not think it is really appropriate for a governor of a national bank to make statements about people coming out here because they do not agree with government policy. I do not think it is up to the governor of the National Bank of Belgium to declare that these people are actually saying to their children that they can go to hell. That's not a verdict worthy of a governor of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u12	Mr Minister, I would like to call on you to ensure that risk management is controlled at Belfius and that we do not start again building speculative cases that will become potential boomerangs. As long as Belfius is a government bank, one must work as classically as possible. The bride can only be more beautiful if she adheres strictly to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u13	Apparently, Mrs. Jadin isn't here.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u14	Mr. President, Minister, following a computer problem, the Tax-on-web site was unavailable on Monday, October 27. The press relayed the information issued by the FPS Finances that the deadline for filing the declaration of natural persons was extended to 7 November. It is not an isolated incident but an umpteenth computer problem that raises the question of the reliability of FPS Finance's IT tools. Minister, are you aware of the cause of the October 27 breakdown? What steps have you taken to ensure that such an event does not happen again? In the longer term, what new services will be available on FPS Finance's IT platforms? What is the budget allocated to these new projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u15	Mr President, this issue has given me a lot of work. With regard to the Tax-on-web site of the FPS Finances, we did indeed undergo five periods of unavailability affecting citizens and agents during the month of October. The cause was the interruptions in the Federal Identification and Authentication Service of the Citizens of the Fedit, which occurred on October 17, 21, 22, 23 and 27. These periods of unavailability amounted to a total of 518 minutes, or 8:38 a.m. interruption. The management of the Federal Citizen Identification and Authentication Service does not fall within the competence of my department. The Fidict has communicated to my services that system updates have been pre-installed, that system monitoring has been strengthened and that the replacement of technical components of the firewall protecting the federal network has been envisaged before the end of the year. When Tax-on-web malfunctions lead to delays in the completion of formalities for their clients in the head of accountants and trustees, it is possible to grant them an additional period of time. This year, due to technical problems on the Federal ICT platform, a first deadline for filing the tax return was granted until 7 November 2014. Due to a new unavailability of the system on 4 November 2014, I decided to extend the deadline for filing the declaration by the agents via Tax-on-web until 14 November included. Next year, in collaboration with my colleague Minister De Croo, efforts will be made by Fidict to avoid the malfunctions of Tax-on-web. To answer the question about new IT services, I can inform you that in addition to the functional and legislative adaptations of existing egov applications, the FPS Finance will offer new features that will allow credit professionals and citizens to enrich and consult online the registry of pledged assets. This is the draft pledge register for which a budget of almost €700,000 will be allocated in 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u16	Minister, thank you for these very specific answers. It is my understanding, therefore, that the Fedit service in question falls within the purview of your colleague, Minister De Croo. I want to believe that with him, you'll put pressure on these failures not to happen again. We will be attentive to the evolution of the situation and the reliability that we hope to find of this Tax-on-web service.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u17	I have noticed that this issue involves additional costs for Antwerp and Ghent. Mrs Temmerman, I give you the floor for your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u18	Mr President, I have taken only two cities as an example, by chance Ghent and Antwerp, but there are certainly other examples. Mr Minister, the mayors of many Flemish cities and municipalities are very upset because the tax administration wants to tax the movable income of the cities and municipalities much more widely, in the sense that income from concessions, for example to market stallers or to public events, would also be taxed. The VVSG acknowledges that, of course, cities and municipalities are also subject to that legal liability tax, but since recently, according to the VVSG, the tax authorities consider the concessions granted by a municipality on real estate to be therefore part of the public domain of the VVSG as a moving income. According to the VVSG, this is not true, because it belongs to the administrative tasks of the municipalities themselves. Moreover, these concessions to markets, fairgrounds, parking garages and cemeteries are absolutely not profitable activities for the municipalities, because the costs of building and maintaining the public domain are obviously much higher than the proceeds of the concessions. The President said it earlier, and I have been briefed on this: for Antwerp, this would mean an additional cost of EUR 5 million for this period of administration and for Ghent, from EUR 2.5 million to EUR 3 million. As you know, the cities and municipalities are not very big at the moment. These are therefore even more costs, which are also challenged by the VVSG. Is it true, Minister, that the interpretation of the tax on municipal income has recently changed? According to the VVSG, the interpretation is wrong. What interpretation should cities and municipalities give? Were the consequences of this measure properly assessed? Was it calculated what this will cost? Perhaps it was calculated what this will bring for the State, but was it also considered what this will cost to the different cities and municipalities? Will you instruct your administration to work on a new interpretation for this so-called movable income? They are movable income but in relation to immovable property. If this measure is implemented, what will be done to compensate some of the cities and municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u19	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, this problem is not new. She was also mentioned at the time of my predecessor, Mr Vanackere. My administration has certainly not taken a new position recently on the taxation of the movable income of cities and municipalities. The tax system applicable is that applicable to the income derived from a concession and is assessed on a case-by-case basis by reference to the scope of the agreement which is the basis and taking into account the legal and regulatory provisions. Movable income shall also include income derived from the concession of the right to exercise an activity, including that on the public domain. The net taxable movable income of that category shall mean the gross amount less the costs incurred to obtain or retain that income. In the absence of evidence, these costs are estimated on a flat-rate basis according to a percentage, which is, moreover, determined by a Royal Decree, which is generally 15%. I can assure you that I am very vigilant and sensitive to the problems you have raised. I will certainly have the specialised services of my administration examine the proposals that are being made to me to exempt cities and municipalities from the withholding tax on the revenue they obtain for the use of the public domain.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u20	The subject has already been discussed during the general discussion. I can have my question converted into a written question if the Minister is willing to give me his answer. That way we save time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u21	Mr Daerden, would you like to ask your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u22	I can put it in writing if the answer is given to me quickly, Mr President, because this subject concerns the communal budgets.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u23	Mr President, I had also tabled a written question on this subject. Since oral questions were tabled on the subject, I should like to have my question transformed. However, if everyone agrees to a written reply, I agree with the consensus, provided that the answer is delivered soon. I have just asked additional questions about the policy statement in order to know what will happen in 2014 and what structural solution will be in place for 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u24	Mr President, on the basis of what I said this morning, I would add that I am very well aware of the problem. I'm also talking to our local officials. We will do everything we can, first and foremost, to provide a written answer as soon as possible and, secondly, to provide solutions in the short term and in a structural manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u25	Mr President, I think the Minister has the answer. My question was, can he give it to me now? Could you have that copied?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u26	The questions are clear. The Minister has an answer. Let the questions continue and let the Minister read or distribute the answer, then that is also off the table. I've been going through this discussion for years. It's good that we get the answer. It is also a point for many municipality recipients and ships from Finance. The answer will be distributed and recorded in the Minutes as the answer to the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u27	For the sake of clarity, solve the problem and look for a structural solution as soon as possible can no longer be done before 2014, you understand. A structural solution requires a review of a number of processes and ongoing cases. I believe that it is in the interests of the municipalities that we resolve the issue of 2014 as quickly and as thoroughly as possible and that we will come to a structural solution by 2015 on the basis of a good analysis. Let there be no misunderstanding: I did not say anything about a structural solution in 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u28	Mr Terwingen is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u29	Minister, this dossier has been known for several months. You are well aware of the background and content of this dossier. It is particularly relevant to refer to the law of 15 May 2014 which introduced a favor scheme for the dislocated zones following the Pact for Competitiveness, Employment and Relance. It also included the measure of exemption from the transfer of a holding tax of 25% for new additional employment in those affected areas. The regions, for us the Flemish Region, but I am no longer in the Flemish Parliament, can then decide which dislocated zones are recognised and for which the aid may apply. On 9 May, the Flemish government took the decision of principle to set up an assisted area around Genk, for the problems in Limburg, and Turnhout, for the problems in the Antwerp Kempen, as in Philips. The federal government has also committed itself in the government agreement to implement this law as soon as possible for the dislocated zones, together with the Regions. Minister, what initiatives will you take to operationalise the "specific aid in dislocated areas"? Have you received proposals from the Regions on possible assisted areas? If so, were these approved? Has a cooperation agreement already been concluded with the Flemish Region? If not, will that happen in the next few weeks? A new European Regulation 651/2014 on State aid came into force on 1 July. Was the law of 15 May 2014 reviewed in the light of the new Regulation and should amendments be made? The exemption from the transfer of farm levy in assisted areas is conditional. How will the government maximise its recovery potential and detect possible abuse?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u30	Minister, I had put my question to your colleague, Kris Peeters, because I suspected that he was competent for the competitiveness law and its implementation. It appears, however, that the file belongs to you. The competition law was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 22 May. The Royal Decree, published on 26 June, implements it. On 9 May 2014, the previous Flemish government, of which Kris Peeters was Prime Minister, drew up a proposal to design two zones shortly before the elections. The area around Turnhout was already more or less explained. In addition, there is the zone around Genk. Limburg is facing the final closure of the Ford Genk plant this year. In the proposal of the previous Flemish Government, an area was defined for the area around Genk on the basis of statistical sectors, which would make all industry and business areas as well as all science parks in Limburg part of the dislocated zone. The Flemish government agreement states that the decided zones around Genk and Turnhout are being implemented. It also states that the option is left open to indicate two more zones elsewhere in Flanders. Taking into account the criteria set out in the Royal Decree of 26 June on the number of square kilometres authorised and the number of inhabitants for the possible four zones together, there is nevertheless some concern that the previously defined areas for Genk and Turnhout would be reduced in favour of possible two additional zones in Flanders. According to my information, the cooperation agreement on the dislocated zones would be currently being prepared by the Federal and Flemish Governments. As far as the timing and the practical details are concerned, I do not know yet. Can you confirm that in defining the dislocated zones for Flanders, the area around Genk, as previously proposed by the Flemish Government, is preserved? What is the timing for concluding a cooperation agreement between the federal and Flemish governments? What will be the practical arrangements for implementation?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u31	Mr President, I would like to thank the speakers for their questions. Due to the period of caution prior to the election period, followed by the period of current cases until the entry of the new government, the operationalisation of this aid has been delayed. My predecessor in the Department of Finance has already instructed the administration to use this period to prepare the negotiations for the conclusion of the necessary cooperation agreements. These preparations have now been completed, and their outcome will soon be discussed in the new government. In its opinion on the Law of 15 May 2014, the Council of State had already referred to the expiry date of the current General Block Exemption Regulation. The administration has used the period of cautious and ongoing cases to check the new General Block Exemption Regulation against the European Regulation. This analysis shows that the law will have to be amended on a number of points. However, my administration has reassured me that these adjustments will not affect the substance of this measure. My administration is currently completing a draft which will soon be discussed in the government. Furthermore, my administration, in conjunction with the various inspection services, has started to prepare the practical organisation of this measure. The Law of 15 May 2014 provides that only a Region that has concluded a cooperation agreement with the federal government can propose support zones to the Minister responsible for Finance. To date, none of the three regions has concluded a cooperation agreement with the federal government. Since the regions are not yet formally able to propose assisted areas, my administration has not yet been able to examine the areas already agreed in the various regional governments. The negotiation process concerning the conclusion of these cooperation agreements was greatly delayed. As a new Minister of Finance, I will see to it that these negotiations are launched as soon as possible. Since the negotiations on the conclusion of these cooperation agreements have not yet been completed, I cannot go into the details of their implementation. The results of the negotiations will be made public, in particular in one of the future editions of the Belgian Official Journal. In order to be able to monitor this new measure effectively, my administration will develop several control programmes. I am convinced that this approach will minimise potential abuses.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u32	It is good to initiate the necessary action on the Flemish regional side so that this cooperation agreement can be concluded quickly. I am pleased that the test of the European regulation ensures that the scheme can continue to exist in essence and that the block exemption in the assisted areas can also be effectively implemented through the cooperation agreements and the law you are preparing.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u33	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I understand, of course, that part of the file has been held because of the elections. Of course, there is not much we can do about this. I have heard you say the word'soon' a few times, which is important. In any case, I know that in the Limburg region, but that will also be the case in the Turnhout region, employers and companies are waiting for the measure to recruit staff. After all, they know that a number of benefits are coming. I would just like to emphasise that, when you talk a few times about successful debt securities, you have my full support. Do you have any idea when you would like the agreements to be concluded?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u34	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, unfortunately I have no concrete idea. I have indicated on the various points that they will be implemented as soon as possible. I have also called for concrete answers from the administration so that we can move forward. Mrs Smaers, I also take your reference to the Flemish Government seriously, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u35	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Biesen's 130 has been converted into a written question, but I think that is actually pointless, given the subject matter of the question and the forthcoming budget debate. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Cauter's 131 amendments were postponed, along with questions Nos 142 and 143 tabled by Mr Mathot.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u36	Mr President, Minister, in the course of 2012, the then Minister of Finance had come to explain in the Finance Committee the reform of the FPS Finances. At the time, my group had been cautious, not with regard to the objectives to be achieved, but with regard to the way in which the reform was carried out: lack of social consultation, a significant risk of loss of proximity to the public service or loss of expertise within the Department of Finance. Since then, in view of our concerns, we have requested that hearings be held, which has been done. Several observations were made following these hearings. The first is the closure of a large number of small offices. As much as we can understand the need to restructure buildings for greater safety and cost-effectiveness, it is important to keep strategic offices in order to allow citizens access to all tax administration services. Therefore, Mr Minister, is a system of permanence in the communes actually in place? That had been mentioned at the hearings. You will understand that it is not possible to simply impoverish public service without finding alternatives. The second point of concern concerns the problem of changeover, which we are facing. Since these hearings, officers have had to apply for assignments. At the time of the hearings already, we had been sensitive to the organization of this shift. We had expressed our concern that some agents might find themselves on the tile, forced to leave their current place of work and their place of life or to dive into material that was completely alien to them. Moreover, the blur that reigned was not a good omen. To a question from my colleague Ahmed Laaouej, your predecessor replied that the changeover would take place with flexibility and pragmatism. However, Minister, today I receive testimony from officers who find themselves facing an inextricable situation. They switched but did not obtain any of the incumbency. Some are thinking of leaving the tax administration both for lack of expertise in the field now entrusted to them and for important family reasons. Beyond statistics, there are unfortunate cases. How do you intend to solve them? A social unit to accompany the transition had to be set up: what about it? Who can contact public servants in the event of a problem? How will we train agents who change material completely when they sometimes have a sophisticated expertise in their field? Are you not afraid of losing expertise in very complicated subjects? Have you ever made contact with administrative officers since you took office?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u37	Mr President, dear colleague, the FPS Finance wants to move towards a results-oriented and client-oriented organization and thus become an effective federal public service. To achieve this objective, a new structure has been designed. It should enable agents to work better and faster, since the case of a citizen or company will now be dealt with within a single department. So far, too often the citizen or company had to move from one building or service to another. The changeover gives every FPS Finance employee a new place within the new structure. In order to ensure that everything goes as fairly and fairly as possible, working groups and meetings have been set up in recent months in collaboration with the trade union organizations that I received in my office two days ago, resulting in the drafting of a royal decree and a protocol. These consultative bodies have sought a compromise that has been able to satisfy all parties. Similarly, before and during the effective operationalisation of the changeover within the various administrations, committees have been and are still being organised with representative trade union organisations, where, among other things, each director-general has been able to explain the concrete method of work within his or her entity. The operationalization of the changeover takes place in phases within each entity so that employees can be trained and prepared to integrate their new place. To this end, a training plan has been drawn up for all employees who, as a result of the so-called changeover 3, will either fully or partially enter their new jobs or will have to acquire new skills. In addition, during these monitoring committees, solutions are sought to the problems some employees may experience due to longer journeys to work. To this end, a protocol is being drawn up. The latter will provide these employees with flexibility in terms of schedules and a guarantee that they can perform telework and/or work in a satellite office. In this protocol, the FPS Finance is committed to expanding its network of satellite offices. Employees who find themselves in a medical or social situation incompatible with a longer home-to-work journey may request a temporary medical or social transfer from the Welfare Department. The welfare workers are also present to provide moral support and support to employees who experience difficulties in adapting to their new working environment and/or function.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u38	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. I obviously share the wish of your predecessors, who are also yours, to modernize and streamline the functioning of the FPS Finance. I am reassured to hear that a protocol is being developed because there are very unfortunate cases. I insist that a solution be found for those agents who sometimes have a lot of seniority, who have made their lives near their work and who are back in Brussels. The situation is very difficult for them. I am also pleased to hear that you have already met the trade unions in the sector. It is important to have a permanent dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u39	Debates of the European Parliament 146 has already been dealt with by Mrs Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u40	Mr Minister, this question concerns the budget, not the budget for the coming year, which we have just been presented with, but the budget for the current year 2014. In September, the Planning Bureau updated the growth forecast for this year from 1.4 % to 1.1 %. Then there was a rather quick, firm reaction from then Minister Chastel and then Secretary of State Bogaert. They immediately opened a recruitment stop with the federal government and imposed additional restrictions on the expenditure of the departments. Now, of course, we can ask questions about this change in the attitude towards the very positive budgetary control of April. In April there was no problem, in September it was suddenly all hands on deck. The problem now seems to be a lot bigger. Firstly, what do you learn from your understanding of tax revenue, both VAT and advance payments, corporate tax and so on, for this year? What is the difference from the estimates of budgetary control in April? What do you think that's due to? Secondly, what was the state of play in April? To what extent do the first months' revenues differ from the estimates? In April, it was possible to derive less revenue from the figures available at that time, which could have been taken into account at that time. Thirdly, what measures are you planning? It's already November 19th and you only have a month and a half more. My question is now a month old. Of course, you can't help it, but then we had three months to go. What measures were you planning to take to avoid a derailment of the 2014 budget? In the newspaper De Tijd there was mention of an accelerated handling of files on tax amnesty. Is that information correct? How much has the tax amnesty paid this year? What additional revenue do you intend to make for this year's budget? What is the impact on this year's budget? Fourthly, what impact do you see for next year? You cannot, of course, take the files on tax amnesty that you are dealing with this year with as quickly as possible for next year's budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u41	Mr Dedecker, as you rightly point out in your first question, in September this year the Federal Planning Office revised economic growth expectations downwards. As far as GDP growth is concerned, it is a reduction from 1.4 to 1.1 %. This means a clear delay in economic activity. At the same time, there is a downward adjustment of inflation, which is also important for the budgetary situation. The consumer price index is falling from 0.8 to 0.6%. It should be noted immediately that this fits in with a European slowdown in growth. In a breath, I would almost dare mention Japan, after what we have heard in recent weeks. The flow of negative economic messages, which has been communicated from our neighbouring countries, which are our main trading partners, for example, since the second half of the year, is a clear sign that there is not much economic progress there either. For a country such as Germany, by far the largest economy in the EU and certainly also in the euro area and a major trading partner, economic growth is falling significantly. Growth of 0.1 % in the third quarter of 2014 is therefore worrying. It is also expected that we will face a completely stagnant German economy in the fourth quarter. I am thinking of the tensions in the Middle East and Ukraine, which affect poor results, is an open door. It goes without saying that such economic news inevitably emits a negative impact on the budget. In fact, the still decent economic outlook in April of course resulted in substantially better budgetary figures on the revenue side. It is therefore logical that there should be a substantial correction of the budgeted revenue figures for budgetary control in September/October. The weaker economic performance can certainly be seen in the course of, for example, the holding tax. Until March 2014, its growth was 2.3 %; at the beginning of this year the budget took into account a growth of 2.59%. At present, after nine months, growth is virtually halved to 1.25 %. A revision of the figures was therefore necessary. The growth in VAT receipts after four months was 7.2 %, while after nine months it was also more than halved to 3.5 %. Of course technical factors also play a role, but the trend is very clear. With regard to your second question, until April there was still a significant link between predicted growth and observed growth. Nevertheless, it should be noted that, mostly for technical reasons, the situation after four months should not be extrapolated on an annual basis. Nevertheless, it is clear that, although growth has slowly but surely declined since then, the result is a downward adjustment of the budget, as has already been pointed out in general terms. At the beginning of this year, however, it was impossible to predict, or certainly not to the extent that growth would go down in this way. This was not only the case for Belgium, but also in many other countries of the European Union. I can refer to the forecasts used by the main economic institutions. With regard to your third and fourth questions on tax regularisation, I would like to say that these dossiers will be processed as soon as possible. It was initially planned that all the files would be dealt with this year. Nevertheless, the exact size of the work volume was not exactly to be estimated at that time. Indeed, many dossiers appear to be much more complex than expected, which, of course, also inevitably leads to delays in terms of work schedules. Nevertheless, the remaining files will be resolved as soon as possible. At the moment, 5 113 files still have to be resolved effectively, while at the beginning of 2014 there were 16 347 files. It is therefore likely that some of these dossiers will not be dealt with until next year and will therefore only then generate revenue. I cannot now state exactly how much revenue is going to be generated by the files. You have every sympathy for that, I think. With regard to the current revenue from tax regularisation for this year, I can tell you that until October 2015 the so-called EBA bis or tax regularisations submitted before July 2013 raised EUR 537 million. EBA has already generated EUR 260.5 million in revenue from July until the end of December 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u42	Minister, I think there's been a slight error in your answer. You said 2015, while you probably meant 2013.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u43	You're right. Thank you for the correction. It is indeed for EBA bis about October 2013 and for EBA ter about December 2013.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u44	Minister, I fully understand that there is also a slight error between the whole set of figures. We were just discussing the 2015 budget. Then a mistake was made quickly. Since April, therefore, there has been a marked change in the economic situation as a result of the international economic situation and also international tensions. I am confident that the budget will be completed as well as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u45	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of September 2014, the tax authorities published a letter on the tax treatment of copyright. A few days later, however, it was withdrawn. That was before your appointment. So don't take it personally. At the end of October 2014, the letter was published again and remarkably unchanged at the request of your cabinet in order to provide tax certainty and clarity in the short term. The tax treatment of copyright is assessed in different ways, depending on the tax inspector who receives the taxpayer. That is a problem in itself. The letter should be clear. The circular provides that employees may also receive copyright fees and that such copyright fees are taxed as movable income. Many discussions with the tax authorities also occur among self-employed people who create a copyright work. I am thinking of journalists and photographers; they create their own work and exploit it by selling it to their employer. The tax treatment of fees for the assignment or concession of copyright may in practice lead to a different interpretation between a taxable person and the tax authority. A self-employed person or an employee who does not agree with the Ghent BBI is immediately fined 50% for fraud. We know that this may vary from one region to another. Mr Minister, does the letter cover all inspection services, including the Special Tax Inspectorate, which, although it falls within the competence of your colleague, Mrs Sleurs? If there is a discussion between the taxpayer and the tax authority on the qualification of income from the assignment or concession of monetary rights to a protected work, could there be fraud immediately when it appears that a taxable person is creating professional copyrighted works, such as writing texts or making photocopies? Thirdly, will the letter of 4 September be supplemented? There are also many disputes over the amount of compensation which, in the eyes of the tax authorities, may be regarded as revenue from the concession or the concession of copyright. Or will the copyright regime only be workable for taxpayers after they all apply for individual rulings? The ruling service probably won't be happy about that. Fourthly, the government agreement states that the VAT fine system will be adjusted. Will the scale of administrative fines and their application in income tax also be adjusted, in particular in the case of a first infringement? Will the adjustment of the current fine scale also apply to all pending disputes? As you know, there may be quite a few of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u46	My questions, Minister, relate to about the same subject. Income from the transfer or concession of copyright and related rights is subject to a special tax system. On the Flemish side, a protocol was concluded in 2010 between the Flemish News Media, the Flemish Association of Journalists and the Cabinet of the Minister of Finance. In that protocol, an arrangement was agreed that, for the freelance journalists in the main profession, a basic rule of 30% of the income should be considered as income from the copyright concession and for freelance journalists in the secondary profession, 100 percent of the income. That protocol was also ratified by the cabinet of the Minister of Finance. Following the implementation of the recent circular to which Mr Dedecker referred, there is a great deal of confusion and concern in the field. There are also many different interpretations of the current circular. Apparently, there are a wide variety of applications and implementations on the ground, throughout Belgium. I have the following questions. It is unclear how many percent of the remuneration received by journalists, among others, can be considered as income from the copyright concession and therefore benefit from the special tax system. Can you clarify that? What scale of remuneration, among other things, should be used for their work? Is it a rate of reimbursement for services rendered or a rate of reimbursement for the concession of copyright and related rights? What is the percentage for freelance journalists? Does this apply both to freelance journalists in the main profession and to freelance journalists in the secondary profession? Is there a different arrangement for journalists working in permanent employment? What are the consequences of this letter? 36/2014 for the ongoing investigations of the BBI? Finally, in its previous decision, the Prior Decision Office often used stricter criteria than in the new letter. It is therefore possible that an application which is in accordance with the transfer note may not be accepted by the DVB. That is, of course, very problematic. How will this problem be solved?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u47	Mr President, the purpose of the administrative circular on the tax treatment of income from copyright is, of course, to strengthen tax security and clarity. This circular must be applied by all the departments responsible for the establishment of income taxes, including, of course, the services of the general administration of the BBI. Fraud occurs only where infringements are found to be fraudulently or for the purpose of harm. This can, of course, only be assessed on a case-by-case basis. The circular discusses the general principles that apply. The tax classification of copyright income should be examined on a case-by-case basis in the light of the legal and factual circumstances. There is no legal provision in common law or in tax law which provides for a rate of reimbursement in respect of the revenue from the assignment or concession of copyright. The provisions of the agreement between the author and his publisher must be examined separately for each case. However, the parties are free to conclude a particular agreement among themselves. Where, for a specific profession between the persons concerned, an agreement is concluded by means of a collective agreement or by other means, in relation to a particular relationship between the income from the assignment or concession of copyright and other income, that agreement shall be accepted by the administration in so far as that agreement corresponds to the reality. The tax law is based on that reality and it is necessary to examine whether it really is income from the concession or concession of copyright. The same principle also applies to the decisions of the Department of Prior Decisions in tax matters, the ruling committee. If an applicant wishes to obtain a prior decision on, for example, a key of 80/20 or 50/50 accepted by the Prior Decisions Department in tax matters, that service shall only provide legal certainty in relation to that individual application. The taxable person is free to use that procedure or not. However, it goes without saying that all taxable persons in the same situation are entitled to identical tax treatment in the ruling committee or in the preliminary ruling service in tax matters. I will, together with Mr Sleurs, Secretary of State responsible for the fight against fraud, consider whether a new division into the nature of the tax offences should also result in an amendment of the legislation on fines and possible tax increases.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. Your intentions are indeed clear, namely to create legal certainty with that letter. Of course, this can only be welcomed. It is therefore a question of legal certainty regarding the application of the law by the BBI. I also remember your confirmation that there is fraud only if there was an effective purpose to inflict damage, to effectively and deliberately not paying the taxes that one should pay. In this respect, of course, this is in line with the policy statement made by Secretary of State Sleurs, who was discussed here in Parliament. The worst intentions of the taxpayer must not necessarily always be taken into account. That seems to me to be correct and a human way of working. That makes sense to me. It is, of course, still very complicated to apply such relationships. It is something that will often happen individually and that makes it somewhat difficult, but it is also a very complicated way of working. It can mean a very different situation for people working as an employed person when it comes to determining what is effective employment and what is authorship. That's understandable.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u49	Indeed, Minister, letters of conversion should provide more clarity and certainty on the ground. Unfortunately, we know from practice that this is not always and certainly not always the case. I therefore hope that your answer can at least provide a little more certainty on the ground, that it can be a little clearer and lead to greater uniformity in the handling of the various dossiers. At least I hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u50	Mr Wollants, you will answer your question. 182 on excise duties on biofuels?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u51	Mr President, in the light of the amended agenda, I could now put that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u52	I propose that the first question be put to the Commission. Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej and Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Laaouej, Mr Wollants, I suggest that you answer your question. 182 after the combined questions put by Mrs Pas and 212 by Mr Vanvelthoven.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u53	Mr President, Minister, it is my responsibility that the SPF Finances, in collaboration with the Hogesschool Gent, organizes a training in business management, accounting and taxation for thirty Dutch-speaking employees who hold a secondary education diploma. Upon completion of the training, candidates would be awarded a bachelor's degree and could participate in the statutory selection procedures for Level B. The entire training course consists of three years of study. Tax matters such as personal tax, corporate tax and VAT are exempt from the FPS Finances. In addition, courses such as economics, law, accounting, social legislation, English and Dutch would be offered by the Ghent High School. The minerval is about 835 euros per year. It appears that the FPS Finance would be willing to counter the decline in bachelor's degrees in the labour market by offering the opportunity for motivated persons with a higher secondary education diploma to combine work and education. This very good initiative must be welcomed, Minister. Indeed, that the public service – and in particular the FPS Finances – supports the training of young people is something important. Nevertheless, I have a few questions for you. Is this organization of bachelors in coordination with a high school a pilot experiment? Can you tell us if the training has already started and if many participants are enrolled in it? Is this training restricted to persons whose mother tongue is Dutch or is it open to all? Finally, will other such experiences be organized with other high schools in the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u54	Mr President, my colleague, the organization of this baccalaureate would indeed have been a pilot experiment for both French-speaking and Dutch-speaking students, since a comparable initiative was about to be launched with a French-speaking high school. Unfortunately, however, this week my services made the decision to terminate this project for budgetary reasons, including the linear savings of 4% on staff-related appropriations.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u55	Minister, thank you for this clear, precise and short answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u56	Mr President, Minister, during the previous legislature, a series of memorandums of understanding were reached between Belgium and other OECD countries for the exchange of information on request. These memoranda of understanding were part of a first generation. While this was a positive first step, recognize that it is not optimal to effectively combat the phenomena of fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax optimisation. Indeed, a multitude of mountings make it possible to put the proper functioning of the system in check. The OECD, however, at the origin of the international standard of the Tax Information Exchange on Demand Agreement, believes that it should now be replaced by the automatic exchange of tax information. That would be a real development. In this context, Mr Minister, could you explain to us, through a precise timetable, Belgium's intentions in order to move towards a generalised system of automatic exchange of information?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u57	Minister, I will simply complete the questions of our excellent colleague Mr Laaouej. The European Directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation contains provisions which will enter into force on 1 January 2015. The automatic exchange of information will therefore be a reality, provided that the FPS Finance devotes human and material resources to it. The government has announced its intention to pursue a "selective replacement policy" for retiring civil servants. Minister, is the FPS Finance ready to process the data that will be collected through the automatic exchange of information? How many officers are assigned to this task? If you have this information: what is the average age of these agents?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all confirm that my administration will be ready to process the data received. The service providing the exchange of information shall be prepared for the tasks which the application of the Directive entails from 1 January 2015. The necessary applications are being developed to transpose the data after receipt and make it available to the control services. These additional tasks have been taken into account when assessing the staffing needs of this service. The necessary attention will also be paid to the use of the information received, as is already the case for all information received through other instruments. The Belgian Government fully supports international efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion. To this end, my predecessor signed this year a FATCA agreement between Belgium and the United States. Under this agreement, an automatic exchange of financial information between Belgium and the United States will take place by the end of 2015. The first exchange of information is scheduled for September 2015 for information relating to the period from 1 July 2014 to 31 December 2014. At the international level, the Council of the European Union and the G20 have expressed support for the development of the automatic exchange of information that they consider effective in combating tax evasion, tax base erosion and profit transfer. The new global standard, called the CRS or Common Reporting Standard, was developed based largely on the automatic exchange of information required by the FATCA Agreement and incorporated into it a multilateral character. This standard was published on 21 June 2014 and is available on the OECD website. It shall set up an automatic exchange of information on interest, dividends and other similar types of financial income as well as account balances and proceeds from the sale of assets. With regard to the implementation of the standard, a group of precursor countries, both members and non-members of the OECD, have undertaken to implement the standard within an ambitious time frame, according to which the first automatic exchange of information for 2016 is scheduled for 2017. Belgium has decided to be part of these precursors. That is why I signed in Berlin on 29 October last the Multilateral Agreement between the competent authorities concerning the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts – an act in which I confirmed Belgium's willingness and commitment to be at the forefront of the world's tax cooperation. At European level, and still in the interests of harmonisation, the Commission has proposed amending Directive 2011/16/EU on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation to include the common CNS reporting standard. The Ecofin Council unanimously reached political agreement on this matter on 14 October. The amended directive will be formally adopted at a forthcoming Council meeting. The first automatic exchange of information is planned for 2017. They will cover the year 2016. In conclusion, with regard to the introduction of domestic legislation enabling such automatic exchanges, my administration is preparing a bill regulating the obligations arising from the automatic exchange of information on international financial accounts and for tax purposes. With this law, we will be able to apply this procedure. This bill will be submitted to Parliament as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u59	Minister, thank you for this particularly encouraging response. You have to say it and greet it. However, I would like to draw attention to a very important point. A few years ago, the Court of Auditors conducted an audit of how the FPS Finance managed information from abroad to realize that it was being processed, but with a certain delay, and sometimes did not reach the tax authorities responsible for considering it in order to possibly review a tax situation. If we go towards an automatic exchange of information, it means that the mass of information that will happen will be very important. This therefore requires an organisation capable of dealing with all this so that it can have an effect and to avoid the loss of this information, especially since, in tax matters, there is obviously the time limit for taxation. If it is prescribed, it is prescribed! I therefore draw your attention, Mr Finance Minister, and that of your services, to the importance of providing sufficient back office.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u60	Minister, thank you for your response and for the voluntarism you are displaying. I welcome your willingness to keep Belgium in a position as a forerunner. You did not answer my questions about the officers assigned to these tasks. I'm not holding you to it. Of course, logistics will have to follow and staff will have to be sufficient to meet the objectives you pursue.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u61	Mr President, Minister, the government has not only decided to save and tax everyone extra. It also had a fiscal gift in store, in particular the raising of professional costs which would leave workers and civil servants who do not prove their professional costs net more. Net would amount to an average of EUR 250 per taxable person per year from 2015. That is certainly what was literally communicated to us in the Chamber on 14 October 2014 during the Prime Minister's policy statement. It didn't turn out to be such a good start. Indeed, the draft budget submitted to Europe the following day shows that for that measure, not the EUR 900 million foreseen for 2015 was entered, but only half of that amount. In other words, in 2015, that measure is limited to a net average of 125 euros or just over 10 euros per month. For most taxpayers, I fear that such an amount will not compensate for the impact of the index jump. That is why I have the following questions. Firstly, why was the incorrect announcement of the measure not immediately corrected? Secondly, how will the loss of purchasing power be compensated by the index jump? You have made the statement that compensation will certainly be the case. I'm counting on you to explain how it's going to happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u62	Mr President, Minister, my question goes in the same direction. The question has also been raised a few moments ago. When Prime Minister Michel was sitting here in the Chamber, I understood, like many others, that he had to announce, on the one hand, that the government had decided to go through an index jump from 2015 onwards, but, on the other hand, that he announced, as compensation, that people would also improve because the government had decided to raise the professional fee. There was indeed talk of EUR 250 per year for the working people and a total budget of EUR 900 million. At no time has the Prime Minister made it appear that the measure would only apply half in 2015. So, Minister, I would have liked to hear from you the following. Do you indeed have to confirm that the planned and announced tax reduction is only half registered? Who exactly can benefit from the measure? To what extent can those concerned enjoy it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u63	The government has foreseen in the 2015 budget 450 million euros for the deduction of the flat-rate professional costs and 900 million euros from 2016. These figures were distributed in the course of the parliamentary debate on the declaration of government. The increase in the flat-rate deduction for occupational costs will increase net income from labour after tax. The amount of lump sum professional fees is adjusted so that low wages will benefit more than the highest wages. With regard to index jumps, the Federal Office of the Plan plans to exceed the index-pivot in March 2015, which is normally applicable to the salaries of public servants in May, while the deduction of lump-sum professional expenses for workers increases for the whole year. In the private sector, when index jump is applied depends on collective agreements. In addition, this increase will be charged in the calculation of the professional discount as of January 2015. I would therefore venture to say that there is indeed a compensation for the effect of the index jump on real purchasing power. At the request of the media, I made available a first simulation based on the figures of the administration. The concrete roll-out and the figures are now further on the line.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am very curious about the concrete figures and tables, but I still find it incomprehensible that the communication on this subject completely failed on 14 October. It does not reassure me that a Prime Minister's statement in the Chamber is not better read. That's an important moment. If at the same time budgetary documents contradict his statements, there is clearly a communication problem. If it's a deliberate lie, it's worse, but I'm not assuming it is. I will certainly question the Prime Minister about this miscommunication.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u65	Minister, I regret that the surrender through the index jump of the working people will be fully implemented in 2015, while the compensation promised will be only half.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u66	Minister, by the 2006 law, the Belgian authorities have given the necessary impetus to the start-up of a Belgian biofuels industry. An exemption from the special excise duties and the volumes allocated for incorporation for six years hoped that the new industry would be able to cope with competition from abroad, which was already much further with industry at the time. The deadline for the tender will end this year, but the European Commission has decided that the quota can be extended for a limited period and allows our country to issue a limited new tender, provided that this will lead to a reduction in CO2 emissions. This measure and other measures were incorporated into the Law of 12 May 2014, but they have not yet finally received the European Commission's green light. The biofuels industry is asking for the extension, as it has not yet been able to fully write off its investments and is still in a disadvantaged position vis-à-vis foreign competitors. Some companies are still holding up today. However, the sector fears that a failure to extend could be a blow. Will the government take an initiative to urge the European Commission to launch the new tender? If the European Commission gives the green light, will you extend the current tender this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u67	I found the use of the concept of "green light' very appropriate in the context of biofuels. The law cited by you on 12 May 2014 had to be submitted to the European Commission in the context of the State aid investigation, which will not surprise anyone. On 12 May 2014, the Belgian Government officially notified the European Commission of its intention to apply effectively this reduced rate for biofuels. Following this notification, the European Commission announced on 7 July 2014 that additional information was necessary for the investigation. This additional information was provided to the Commission on 19 August this year. In the meantime, since the European Commission did not ask any additional questions, it can be concluded that the notification submitted by Belgium may be considered complete from 19 October 2014. That was exactly a month ago. As from this date, the European Commission has two months to decide that the notified measure does not constitute State aid, that the notified measure is compatible with the common market or that the notified measure requires an official investigation procedure. This two-month period, which, of course, ends on 19 December 2014, we count in the same way, I note that it is legally established, so that Belgium cannot take the initiative to urge the Commission to reduce this time limit. The State aid decision to be taken by the European Commission should not necessarily lead to the adoption of a new European directive. If the European Commission takes a favourable decision, the government will immediately publish a notice, as provided for in the Law of 12 May 2014. The publication of this notice will of course lead to the entry into force of the provisions of the present law. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the entry into force of the legal provisions will allow the start of the procedure for selecting economic operators who will be able to benefit from the reduced or reduced rate of excise duty when producing biofuels. This will certainly include the setting-up of the committee for recognition, the drawing up of the specifications for the publication of the call for candidates, the publication of this call in the Official Journal of the European Union and, finally, the selection of operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u68	Thank you for your answer. This already gives us some clarity about the procedures, which is important for the bio-industry. If it is legally established how it is to be done, we must indeed wait and see whether we will be able to rely on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u69	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 271 will be converted into a written question. Its questions 272 and 279 are postponed. I believe that this last question can be dropped, because this issue is dealt with in the Tax Programme Act. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Matz' 291 was postponed. Questions Nos 292 and 322 by Mr Van de Velde and Questions Nos 303 and 304 by Mr Mathot are postponed. The same applies to Questions Nos 319 and 321 by Mr Van de Velde.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u70	Minister, it was already decided in 2005 that bearer securities that were not converted before 1 January 2014 into a dematerialised security or a registered security should be sold by the issuer. However, the law does not distinguish between bearer securities which lapse, such as bonds, cash coupons, coupons of dividends and interest, and bearer securities which do not lapse, such as shares and, depending on the modalities, perpetual bonds. According to the Law of 24 July 1921, the company may not assign to itself or to any other person other than the holders of the titles the effects of which the payment or delivery is not requested. In other words, the lapsed amounts never lapse for the benefit of the issuer, allowing the holder of the securities to collect at bearer the amounts forever. The companies are free to deposit or not deposit the amounts due in the Deposit and Notification Cash, where they expire after 30 years for the benefit of the Treasury. Since it is more financially advantageous for companies to hold the lapsed amounts themselves, I suspect that they are generally held by the issuers. Minister, does the mandatory sale in 2015 of the securities to bearer that were not converted affect both lapsed and non-repealed securities? Secondly, can an issuer sell expired securities, because it is essentially a claim on the issuer? Thirdly, does it make sense to require the sale of expired cloaks or coupons of securities to bearer? The value of forfeited cloaks or coupons is in fact equal to the amount of the debt? What then is the fate of the expired dividends, interest, sums and any benefits associated with bearer securities held on account by the issuer company? Finally, these lapsed cloaks and coupons must be entered in a separate account. On what amount is the total amount of outstanding amounts still held by issuers, on the one hand? How much is the amount deposited with the Deposit and Consignation Cash, on the other hand?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u71	Mr President, I think this is a huge technical question. I will therefore answer your five questions very punctually, Mrs Wouters. Firstly, no, the obligation to sell only applies to non-repealed securities. Secondly, once again no, expired securities cannot be sold. After all, they no longer have a course. Sometimes there is still logic. Thirdly, the value of the forfeited cloaks and coupons is indeed equal to the amount of the debt. Fourthly, these amounts are retained in the issuer's account which remains responsible for their return. In the context of the removal of bearer securities, only the equivalent of the last coupon, attached to the cloak, will be transferred to the Deposit and Consignation Cash. This transfer shall be equal to the consideration of the equivalent of the securities sold. The limitation period for the right to return the expired securities shall be suspended. Now I come to your fifth question. In the context of the dematerialisation of securities, the Deposit and Consignation Cash does not currently hold any expired sum. In addition to the dematerialisation, a total of exactly 34 989 215.04 euros of capital and coupons of expired securities were signed at the Deposit and Consignation Cash. The administration has no idea of the amounts currently held by issuers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your excellent answer. I am therefore very pleased that the logic is followed that expired securities should not be sold. This provides clarity, because from 1 January many issuers will be confronted with this. Thank you very much for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u73	Please.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic021x.u74	Questions Nos 346, 347, 348, 349, 350 and 351 by Mr Van Biesen are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 408 by Mrs Sophie De Wit will be postponed, as will Question No 4 by Mr De Wit. 424 by Mr Gilkinet. Debates of the European Parliament 452 by Mr Frank Wilrycx is hereby withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs. Fabienne Winckel's 500 expires. Questions Nos 503 and 504 by Mr Gilkinet have been postponed. That is how we dealt with all the questions.
