ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the standing assembly]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on 15 May, Minister of State Jean-Luc Dehaene died in Quimper, at the age of 73. He was a member of the Chamber of Representatives from 1987 to 1995. Jean-Luc Dehaene was born on 7 August 1940 in Montpellier, the son of a Brugian psychiatrist. One statement from his father would remember the young Jean-Luc forever: Even the biggest fool you can understand, once you know what the logic is that he thinks of. This lesson of life was at the root of his legendary sense of compromise. Another trait that equally characterized him, his belief in teamwork, he developed as a member of the Chiro and of the Catholic scouts in his hometown Bruges. After following the old humaniora at the Brugse Sint-Lodewijkscollege and at the Aalwestern Jesuit College, Jean-Luc Dehaene studied law and economics at the Facultés Universitaires Notre-Dame de la Paix in Namur and at the Catholic University of Leuven. Between 1963 and 1967, Dehaene was the union commissioner of the Flemish Confederation of Catholic Scouts. From 1965 he worked at the main study department of the General Christian Workers' Union, the ACW. From 1967 to 1971 he was National Vice-President of the CVP-Jongeren. In 1972 he joined the National CVP Bureau, and also began a career as a cabinet employee: with Minister of Public Works Jos De Saeger, from 1972 to 1973; with Minister of Health Jos De Saeger, from 1973 to 1974; with Minister of Economic Affairs André Oleffe, from 1974 to 1977. In just five years, Jean-Luc Dehaene was going to assert himself as an efficient and active cabinettard, who knew his files at the fingertips and, like no other, had the ability to build networks. In 1975, Fernand Herman, who had succeeded André Oleffe as Minister of Economic Affairs, appointed him as Chief of Staff, a post he would then hold in 1977 in the service of Rika De Backer, Minister of Flemish Affairs, and then, from 1979 to 1981, in the service of Wilfried Martens, Prime Minister. From December 1981 to May 1988, Jean-Luc Dehaene was Minister of Social Affairs and Institutional Reforms in the governments Martens V, Martens VI and Martens VII. At the beginning of 1988, he managed to get the country out of the serious political crisis triggered a year earlier by the "Happart affair": in just over a hundred days, he obtained agreement on a new reform of the State which had become necessary after the institutional reforms of 1970 and 1980 to solve the serious problems of the Community. The Martens VIII government was thus able to take office in May 1988, with Jean-Luc Dehaene as Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Institutional Reforms and Minister of Communications. In March 1992 Jean-Luc Dehaene himself took the lead over a coalition of Christian Democrats and Socialists. Partly because of the respect and trust he enjoyed with the government parties, and also through his mediation, the Saint Michael Agreement was concluded in September 1992. It was the basis for the fourth state reform, which then transformed Belgium into a real federal state. The Dehaene I government also pursued a strict fiscal policy, which was absolutely necessary to further reduce the Belgian public debt at the time, one of the largest in Western Europe. Between 1995 and 1999, the Dehaene II government continued to improve public finances so that the famous Maastricht standard was finally reached, and Belgium could join the euro area. It is in his time as Prime Minister that I myself knew Jean-Luc Dehaene best. No one has taught me so much about the role of politics and political action. And I am sure that there are many here who will say the same. Moreover, I did not know anyone who solved the problems better than he did before they posed themselves, and he himself said otherwise, but he knew that. Ladies and gentlemen, best of all, the trials, disappointments and even personal dramas have not spared our former colleague Jean-Luc Dehaene. In 1961, at the age of 21, he was struck by the disappearance of his father. His mother remained alone with seven children, of whom he was the eldest. He himself lost two grandchildren while he was prime minister. During the same period, the position of President of the European Commission eluded him because of a veto by the then British Prime Minister, John Major, at the Corfu summit in July 1994. The Dutroux case broke out in the summer of 1996, the dioxin case in the spring of 1999. Jean-Luc Dehaene assumed full responsibility for the heavy electoral defeat that his party was to suffer a few weeks later. Although Jean-Luc Dehaene was still a senator from June 1999 to January 2001, he withdrew more and more from national politics. From January 2001 to July 2007 he was mayor of Vilvoorde, and from June 2004 he was a member of the European Parliament. He was a particularly active member of, inter alia, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Delegation for Relations with the People's Republic of China, and the Committee on Budgets, of which he was Vice-President from 2009 until his death. In his view, European integration, of which he was a strong supporter, was best served by the introduction or strengthening of elements which, in practice, create more unity, such as the single currency, the common passport or the common driving licence. Ladies in here, ladies and gentlemen, the titles, the labels and the protocol inspired our former colleague Jean-Luc Dehaene a deep aversion. The form did not matter to him, it was the content that prevailed. The main objective he pursued as a politician is to contribute to the establishment of structures to best serve society and all citizens. He implemented it by combining his long-term vision with pragmatism, but also and perhaps more importantly, in the sense of collaboration. Doing something together was the meaning of life for him. To put it in his own words: doing something together was essential in everything I've done, whether it was with the Scouts or the Chiro, with the CVP youngsters or in the party, it's part of my representation of happiness. On behalf of the Chamber, the President expressed his sincere condolences to his wife Celie and his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u3	Mr President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen in this House, the reports were great when the news reached us that Jean-Luc Dehaene had died. His passing is a great loss for our country and for Europe. Jean-Luc Dehaene was, as you rightly pointed out, a monument in Belgian politics. Together with Wilfried Martens and Herman Van Rompuy, he, more than anyone, built on our country, on our prosperity, on our state structures and on Europe. He was appointed Prime Minister in 1992 under the most difficult circumstances. He ensured that with his overall plan we met the Maastricht standard and put our country back on track socio-economically. With the Sint-Michiel agreement he made Belgium a real federal state. Jean-Luc Dehaene also had a great European mission. As a member of the Convention, he participated in the cradle of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. At his funeral I said that in his farewell we should also see an assignment, namely to cherish and continue his political heritage. Even today, we can learn a lot from him. Jean-Luc Dehaene could make chords like no other. Compromise, yes, and a word was a word. What was his greatest secret? Mr President, you have already referred to it. He dared to replace the other and could understand the other's logic. He also invested in confidence, as you referred to. He has always invested in human relations in politics, in his party and far beyond. His government team was a real team. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally will never forget his leadership in times of anti-politicalism. That inspired me to engage in society. He restored faith in politics, in the art of politics, for me and for an entire generation. That is why I would also like to pay tribute on behalf of my party to Jean-Luc Dehaene.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the federal government, I would also like to pay tribute and tribute to a great politician who, unfortunately, has passed away. He has done a wonderful job at the various levels, not only at the federal but also at the European level, of which all citizens in Belgium and wider Europe can enjoy. With great respect, we look back on Jean-Luc Dehaene's important position.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u5	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Colleagues, on 10 August, Marcel Bode died in Ypres, at the age of 95; he was an honorary member of the Chamber of Representatives. As a young man, Marcel Bode engaged himself in the Catholic Workers' Youth of Joseph Cardinal, for whom he had a great admiration and whose ideals of respect for and solidarity with the workers he made his own. From the KAJ, Marcel Bode soon took the step towards the General Christian Workers' Union. In 1946 he became ACW secretary in Veurne, from 1954 he held the same position in Ypres, his new residence. In April 1954, Marcel Bode appeared for the first time in the House of Representatives on the CVP list for the Ypres district. Elected with many votes, he sat in the House until May 1965. From June 1965 to March 1968, he was a collaborator in the office of the Minister of Public Works, Jos De Saeger. In the March 1968 election, he returned to the House of Commons, where he served as Vice-President from October 1977 to December 1978. In this assembly, Marcel Bode was known as a courteous politician, but he was also able to show tenacity. During his long parliamentary career, he worked tirelessly to bridge the economic, social and cultural backwardness of Westhoek – his Westhoek – notably by promoting local employment. In December 1978, Marcel Bode said goodbye to national politics. From then on, he would focus entirely on his region and on his beloved city of Ypres, where he was a city council member from January 1971 to December 1982 and from March 1979 to February 1980 ships. In the belief that youth was crucial for the future of the Westhoek, Marcel Bode was committed to improving the supply of education, especially at technical and agricultural level. His attention also focused on the weakest in society, especially the disabled. For example, he was at the cradle of the Dominic Savio Institute in Gits, a school for preschoolers and children from primary and secondary education with neuromotor limitations, of the sheltered Westlandia workshop in Ypres and of the institute for mentally handicapped De Lovie in Poperinge. Up to an advanced age, Marcel Bode continued to follow local, regional and national politics closely and was an inexhaustible source of inspiration for the Christian Democrats in Westhoek. The President, on behalf of the Chamber, expressed his sincere condolences to his family on the passing of the man of integrity and social activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u6	Mr President, fellow ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, I wish once again, on behalf of the federal government, to express my deepest sympathy and respect for what the deceased has achieved. His contribution to technical education and agricultural education was rightly underlined. It remains important to upgrade that education and he was a pioneer at the different levels. The federal government also expresses its deep respect and sympathizes with the family.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u7	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Colleagues, on 22 September last year our good former colleague Flor Van Noppen died at the age of 58. In the second half of the 1990s, Flor Van Noppen was at the cradle of the Karel Van Noppen Foundation, with the aim of keeping the memory of his murdered brother alive and continuing his fight against the hormone mafia and for healthy meat. In 1998 Flor Van Noppen took the step towards politics through the Flemish political renewal movement ID21. From January 2001 he was a city council member in Dessel; from 2007 to 2013 he held the office of ship of Public Works for the New Flemish Alliance. In June 2007, Flor Van Noppen was elected a member of the Chamber of Representatives for the election of Antwerp; in June 2010, he was re-elected a Member of Parliament. During his two consecutive mandates in this assembly, Flor Van Noppen became known as a particularly active member of the Committee for Public Health, the Environment and Social Renewal, of the Special Committee on Climate and Sustainable Development, and of the working group on Parliamentary Delegation of the Belgian Fund for Food Security, all of which were very important to him. During the summer of 2013, Flor Van Noppen was diagnosed with multiple system atrophy, an incurable neurological disease. In April 2014, he managed to get a resolution adopted in the Chamber to release additional funds for the examination of his condition. As a list driver on the N-VA list for the European elections in May 2014, he achieved, without any campaigning, even more than 40,000 preferred votes. Flor Van Noppen was a very honourable Member, whose early departure from our assembly was generally regretted. The dignity with which he carried his disease forced everyone's admiration. In that sense, but also for many other reasons, we will cherish the memory of Flor Van Noppen, the memory of a friendly and friendly man, concerned with the people because he himself was a good man. A man, really a man. On behalf of the Chamber, I have expressed my sincere condolences as chairman to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, we have all been able to learn about the curriculum of Flor Van Noppen, a man of great simplicity. He had dedicated himself to continuing his brother's life's work, which he had to pay for with his life, namely food safety, in this assembly. He was also concerned with animal welfare. Those present at the last meeting of the previous legislature will remember the dignity with which he has behaved an incurable orphan disease, MSA. The farewell he received in this assembly, with a standing ovation, left an unforgettable impression to many of us. It was the finest tribute this assembly could give to Flor. On behalf of the government, I would like to express my deepest condolences to the family and relatives of Flor Van Noppen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u9	The next item is a number of oral questions, starting with the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Employment. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that the Rules of Procedure provide that a question shall last two minutes, an answer shall also be two minutes, and a reply shall be one minute. This is not a pharmacist's case, I know, but I want to take account of these speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u10	Minister, last week this Parliament gave confidence to the government. It is a government that will carry out important reforms, reforms that represent greater growth and social prosperity. I understand that the people are afraid and that there are tensions. However, it is our job and that of the government to remove those fears. This is also the purpose of the social dialogue. Social dialogue means that the government draws up the principles and the lines of action and that their implementation becomes the subject of social dialogue, where the social partners sit around the table and talk about the future. The government is not a dictator. She listens to midfield. You have done so, you have been listened to and measures have already been taken, for example the measures on guaranteed wages and the bridge pension. Our party and this government stand for social dialogue. We stand out, but we must not be blind either. What we have been through this week is unacceptable. There were attacks, savagery, vandalism and wild strikes. Do the laws of the Rue de la Loi or the laws of the street apply in this country? Minister, I have a number of questions for you. When is consultation with the social partners scheduled? When does the Group of 10 meet? Have there been any bilateral contacts with certain social partners? Are the strike days still averted? We all know that strike is a right, that is obvious. However, it also costs an enormous amount of money. The National Bank has calculated that one strike day will cost as much as 200 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, EUR 200 million is a significant part of the competitive injection that this government has just envisaged. Minister, what is your calendar? What will be the outcome of the consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the current government is undertaking far-reaching economic reforms to restore our economy and ensure our prosperity and well-being. It can count on a large majority here in Parliament. Obviously, not everyone agrees with that view, which is normal. After all, that is democracy. The fact that there is a protest is also normal. That's democracy. Every Democrat accepts those things. Mrs Lijnen has just said that strike is anything but a good thing. It costs us 200 million euros a day. I repeat, however, that every democrat will accept and even defend a proper and comprehensive right to strike. However, what has nothing to do with democratic protest or right to strike are destruction, vandalism, violence and the call for violence. Unfortunately, we have seen a strong example of this this week. We saw on television in prime time even a militant of the FGTB effectively defending violence. Colleagues, strike is a right. Violence, on the other hand, is a crime and is essentially another matter. When we trade in protest and civilised, well-framed right to strike for violence and destruction, we trade in democracy for terror, which we must never accept. That is why I have the following question. What will you do to safeguard our democratic rights? What will you do to safeguard the right to protest and the right to strike, but at the same time to guarantee the safety of everyone and to ensure that everyone who wants to work can also work effectively in these difficult times?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lijnen, I am very pleased that you emphasise the importance of social dialogue. Last week, during the debate on the government declaration, we also made it clear that the current Flemish government... (...): (...) [[Hilarity]] I mean, of course, the federal government. Your excuse, but also for the Flemish government, is the case. So don't worry. We have therefore made it clear that this federal government considers social dialogue to be absolutely very important. After all, we are convinced that socio-economic reforms in this country can only be achieved if they are at the highest possible level of consultation and social dialogue. In fact, we have registered a new vehicle, the tripartite consultation, because we believe that this can result more quickly. The question is: what is the situation with regard to the consultation between the social partners? Firstly, some of my fellow Members have already had specific discussions with the social partners on their areas. The Prime Minister has already made informal contact with the social partners, and I have done so myself. We will continue this informal consultation and then officially invite the Group of 10 to agree on the calendar. Secondly, I would like to stress, and this is perhaps not sufficiently known, that social conflicts and strikes are already being dealt with very well by the regulations and by the various joint committees, with reconciliation agencies, a social mediator and so on. The government agreement also states that we want to extend the role of the social mediator further to public enterprises SNCB and bpost. Thirdly and finally, Mr Dedecker, it is very important for me to make it clear that syndical actions involving deliberate destruction are not acceptable and undermine the democratic right to strike and argue. This has to be rejected, this can't be done. I am very pleased that this disapproval has been expressed not only here but also by the various syndicates. They have already distanced themselves, one faster than the other, from workers who cause destruction in actions. I hope that the wide-ranging signal will be given that one can and must argue when one finds it right, there is no way of getting a pin in it, this right must remain in its entirety. But destruction cannot be done, and we must condemn it every time. Once again, I think it is very positive that those responsible for the trade unions have also made it clear that destruction must be condemned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u13	Minister, a call for social dialogue, but also for the primacy of politics. If the social partners do not come out, if they want to take the government agenda hostage, if they want to take the outstretched hand away or answer with the fist, then politics must decide. That is also what our party considers important.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You will find in us a partner in defending democratic values and social dialogue. At the same time, I would also like to thank you for your harsh condemnation of excessive violence. I hope that we will also pay for those responsible who, in this way, make democratic protests a disgrace. I would like to take this opportunity to make an appeal, ladies and gentlemen. I call on my fellow Members in this House, as well as the trade unions and opinion-makers outside this House, to conduct the debate courteously and correctly. For example, there is the widespread misunderstanding that everyone should soon work up to 67. This is not true, this is false, this is fundamentally wrong. This government also provides for social measures that those who start working early can stop early. We'll make sure of that. Fair debate and fair communication could avoid escalation and violence. Violence can be avoided at all times, and that is what we must do.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u15	Mr President, Minister, the government agreement states that you want to create a job plan and that you want to keep people at work longer. You spoke a moment ago about social dialogue, but you decided unilaterally that people should work longer and you unilaterally decided to increase the age of the bridge pension and to tighten the career conditions for it. The cynical thing about the story is that through these measures you have encouraged people to stop earlier rather than work longer. For both trade unions and entrepreneurs have informed the people of the change, because they need to be dismissed before 31 October in order to be able to make use of the current regime. You have been consulted and the Council of Ministers has decided this morning to introduce a transitional measure, but it will not enter into force until 31 December, if I understand correctly. My question remains the same. You have decided that people must work longer but do not tell how people should work longer. There will also be a click system. People who are entitled to a bridge pension today but decide to work longer can still go on a bridge pension later. Sp.a thinks it's only logical that you call in this click system. Mr Minister, I have a proposal to put an end to your holodeck system whereby you first introduce measures and then engage in subsequent social dialogue and then reduce the measures. I suggest that you introduce the clicking system that you are now introducing for the bridge pension, also for the runways, where you also increase the age. After all, the runway system is a system that allows people to work longer, and it is a system that is workable for people. Are you willing to enter the click system for the runways as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u16	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government agreement is indeed based on longer working hours. In this way and with that aim in mind, the conditions are tightened, both for the early retirement and for the supplementary pension, unemployment with a single payment. However, we were all faced with questions from people who are concerned. They wonder when this system will enter into force and whether they will be able to rely on it if they continue to work a little longer. For convenience, this is called the click system, which also applies to early retirement. People of 62 can today call for early retirement after a career of 40 years. This will continue to be possible in the future. The same question raises the question of the bridge pension. Can people who are entitled to early retirement benefit under their collective agreement today sleep on their two ears if they want to continue to work longer? If not, this reform can have a counterproductive effect, because people will give up where we want longer work to take place. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, would you like to make it clear once again, once again, what has been the outcome of the consultation in the government and whether you have taken the signals from the social partners into account? In this way, the right information can be given to all concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u17	Mr President, these questions are somewhat in line with the previous questions on social dialogue and its importance. This cannot be sufficiently underlined. I believe that a government should create a clear framework. This framework must be reflected in a coalition agreement. Both of them, of course, aren't mutually exclusive. One can draw clear chalk lines. One can clearly determine the path to be followed. At the same time, social dialogue can be organised on these lines. This is the intention of this federal government. As far as the bridge pension is concerned, I think it would be more appropriate to emphasise in the future that this is an unemployment benefit with a farm payment. This change was made a long time ago, but in the public opinion it is still referred to as a bridge pension. One forgets that it is actually an unemployment benefit with a single payment. Here too, we have drawn the necessary chalk lines. We encourage people to work longer because this is also part of making the pension system sustainable and making it more stable. You're right to say that we have to make sure that people have a job. As Limburgse from the neighborhood of Genk, you are well placed to suggest that creating jobs is a very important task. However, this is also the challenge that this federal government wants to take on. What has been specifically discussed this morning in the nuclear cabinet and the Council of Ministers? The coalition agreement makes it very clear that we will increase the age of a bridge pension. This is not affected, both for the general bridge retirement age, which goes from 60 to 62 years old, and for the long careers and the heavy professions, we are raising the age. The coalition agreement also explicitly states that 31 October would be the deadline for those who still wanted to use the old regime. Responses were received, both from trade union and employers. We were thus in a situation in which people were encouraged by the trade unions and also by employers to resign now. That wasn't our intention. We do not want people to be dismissed more quickly and to be taken into the bridge pension faster than originally planned. The opposite is, of course, our intention: to keep people working longer. I have consulted with all the actors to see how this practical problem can be solved. After all, it was a practical problem for people who go faster than expected with a bridge pension, but also a legal problem. Indeed, 22 October was yesterday and the government does not want to create any legal uncertainty by sticking to that date and then issuing a Royal Decree, which will then be applied retroactively. This would lead to procedures for labour law banks and so on. That is why the government has sought a practical solution. That was also underlined by my fellow Members this morning. The deadline will be 31 December 2014, Ms Becq. Furthermore, the clicking system provided for by collective agreement 107 is not modified. People who still have the opportunity to take a bridge pension will be able to do so until the end of the year. This is proof that the federal government makes very clear choices that cannot be broken. However, if a win-win-win situation is possible for the employees, employers and the public authorities because of longer working hours, the government is prepared to adjust its measures where necessary. The runways are a completely different problem. This was very specific about 22 October and the risk of legal uncertainty. Referring to the previous question, I am convinced that every minister in his area will take into account the social dialogue which the federal government considers so important. We shall see what the results will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm glad you're admitting that the government has acted too quickly. Perhaps we are using a different definition of social dialogue. You say that you indicate the direction and the window and that the work is done together with the social partners. On the contrary, the dossier we are discussing shows that there was no need for this confusion. If you had previously been with the social partners, you would have heard in advance that this was simply not feasible in practical, legal and other areas. If so, you might have set a target date of 31 December and set a click system. I am glad that you are also concerned and that you take my call to create jobs to heart. However, I would like to say that I think it is important to go for quality jobs and not for any jobs. For this reason, I would once again urge you to take a closer look at the possibility of introducing the clicking system for the runways.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u19	Mr President, I would, of course, like to thank the Minister for his reply. In the previous legislature, as I see it, we have regularly listened to the social partners, even when it comes to pensions. On the basis of these talks, we have also made adjustments and taken measures. Minister, that was important in the previous legislature. I note that yesterday and today the government listened to what is going on with the social partners. We are counting on this to continue in the future and on the government and the social partners to hold hands so that we can have a serious and good dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u20	Mr Vice Prime Minister, it has been over three months since the Constitutional Court abolished the favourable pension scheme for police personnel. Everyone has to work longer, as has already been said here, and the exception for the police is therefore no longer justified. Mr Vice-Prime Minister, the consequences of the judgment are profound for the police, who will have to work for an unexpectedly longer period of time, and for the areas affected by organisational and budgetary problems. For the pension bill, it has a milding effect. There's been unrest for some time. We understand the unrest in the policemen themselves and in the zones. It is important to stress that there is also unrest among local authorities, because they too are involved. Mr Vice Prime Minister, as Minister responsible, you will have to deal with this unrest by providing a solution, a solution in the short term. We know that you had discussions with the trade unions last week. That consultation would have led to a small breakthrough. We in Parliament would like to see this clarified today. I have three questions for you. First of all, do you confirm the breakthrough in the consultation? Will the solution consist in adapted work for policemen from 58 years of age and, if there is no such possibility, early retirement? Secondly, what arrangements have been made for the next meeting? Then what's on the agenda? After all, we understand that you will be back together on 12 November. Thirdly, and this is very important, what measures will you take to ensure that adapted work for police officers is found and that they are prevented from taking early retirement?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u21	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, it is true that last Tuesday I received the four trade unions in my cabinet. In fact, I would like to point out how important we are to social dialogue. The police's pension file is the most important file for me right now. You have outlined the circumstances in which this dossier has developed and I believe that we have a duty to be very clear about this very quickly to all the actors you have listed. At the meeting with the trade unions I was also able to listen to other sighs, which will be followed at a later date. At that meeting, in consultation with the Minister for Pensions, Mr Bacquelaine, I indicated the contours of the coalition agreement, as you have just outlined. I have told them that within its contours further negotiations on the modalities are possible. I then immediately proposed to the trade unions that they set the date and time for this. On 12 November at 10 a.m. they will come to my office to make further arrangements. The breakthrough for me is that the framework outlined in the coalition agreement was accepted by the unions and can be further discussed. What measures exactly should be taken in order to present adapted work or, in the absence of such an early retirement, are part of the negotiations which we are launching on 12 November. It is indeed the intention to define these elements in consultation with the social partners. We are starting negotiations on 12 November, as has been said, and we have the express will to reach agreement with the trade unions or to adopt the measures well before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for the state of play. I repeat that we are not only in favour of longer work, but also of adapted work to allow longer work. There can be no intention of stopping early. It will therefore be necessary to find adapted work. We ask you to ensure that this is done in the course of further consultations with the trade unions. The line was set in the coalition agreement. We ask you to keep that line tight, to harmonise systems and to implement the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u23	Mr Minister, my question is somewhat in line with the previous one. On the initiative of the trade unions, more stringent checks have been carried out at airports in recent days. It has also been announced that local actions will follow. We were also able to hear just now that there is an additional strike proposal for next Thursday. It goes without saying that the strike will cause a great deal of inconvenience to travellers who wish to travel during the autumn holidays. The actions were planned, among other things, following the judgment of the Constitutional Court on the pension scheme of police officers. The concerns of the police personnel are well known. We also understand the concern of the staff. However, I would like to ask you a few questions about this. Firstly, it had already been announced that there would be actions at the airport during the autumn holidays. Have any initiatives been taken to ensure that work is carried out smoothly, if possible? Secondly, you have just expressed a timing, you want to try to reach a good agreement by the end of this year. Will you do something between now and 12 or 15 November, when you see the trade unions again, so that less action is taken on the ground and the peace can return?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u24	I congratulate Mr Demon on his maiden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u25	Mr Demon, there is indeed a strike announcement in the integrated police force for the period from early September to early January. There is constant and often very intensive consultation with the trade unions. Practical agreements have been made, which have so far been properly respected by both the trade unions and the police authorities. I refer to the progress of the demonstration on 18 September last, and to the strike on 23 September, for which staff were requested at federal and local level to ensure a minimum service. Also for the European summit that is taking place today and tomorrow, agreements have been made and specific progress has been made both in the federal police and in the local corps concerned. As regards checks at Brussels National Airport, the operational occupation is closely monitored. The operational occupation, I press on, is insured. I am in constant contact with the Director-General of the Federal Police Administration. No strike action has been announced in connection with border controls at the airport. Last Tuesday I started the consultation with the trade unions. The next concrete phase will take place on 12 November. The trade unions have said that the strike commitment for the European summit still stands, but that, pending 12 November, they would look into the matter. In the meantime, the negotiating framework will still be laid down in the government. The 12th of November will therefore be an important day.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that you remain in close contact with the trade unions. However, I would like to urge that the entire dossier should have sufficient contact with the various trade unions and also to keep a close eye on the autumn holidays, so that there is as little interference as possible at our airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u27	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the 1990s a first law was passed to allow certain weapons to be declared. In 2006, a new arms law was adopted. The purpose of the Act was to combat the trafficking of weapons intended to fuel great banditry, but also to allow individuals to declare weapons that were held in hiding. This law was extended several times and, in any case, until 31 October 2008. It must be noted that, today, 300,000 undeclared weapons remain. As local agents in particular, we often encounter people who are somewhat distraught because they have found a weapon in their parents' homes or elsewhere and are afraid of having serious concerns in the event of a declaration of such a weapon. In addition, hunters are concerned about the rigour of the law and ask for relief in terms of conditions for the transport of hunting weapons. Minister, do you have an estimate of the number of weapons that would still be held in hiding? Have you already set the timetable, the outline of the new reporting period for these so-called clandestine weapons? Can you give a first clarification to the hunters – I am not a member of them – about the conditions under which hunting weapons are transported?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you are asking me a lot of questions when I have just discovered the file. I'm going to try to answer that, but not in a complete way, as you probably hope. The context of your question is known. It concerns all those who failed, in good faith, to declare their weapons before 31 October 2008. It should be noted that the Weapons Act of 8 June 2006 required any person holding a weapon to declare it. This included weapons not yet reported, but also those already registered. At the time, the deadline was 31 October 2008. Many people have not been aware of this new obligation or have not properly integrated it. That is why the Government Agreement envisages opening a new reporting period for all those who failed, in good faith, to declare their weapons before 31 October 2008, provided that they have already been registered before the entry into force of the Weapons Act of 8 June 2006. It goes without saying that I will implement this point of the agreement as soon as possible. In concrete terms, I will entrust my administration with the task of preparing the necessary amendments to the law of 8 June on weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u29	Minister, thank you for your quick response. I realize that you need time to take your mark, but this law seems to me to be particularly important for public safety and for citizens to be reassured.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, today it is thousands of medical and dental students who are in the most complete uncertainty as they do not know whether they will be able to exercise their profession at the end of their successful studies. Without an INAMI number, they cannot exercise their profession in a therapeutic way. Madam Minister, this is obviously a big deal when we know that non-Belgian European doctors easily get an INAMI number and it is a trap both for these students and their families and for universities, but it is also a gabegie for public funds, since all these long years represent a significant cost. Minister, do you intend to find solutions for these thousands of medical and dental students? Are you not only going to make a clear commitment today, but you're also going to get to work quickly? What are the solutions you are considering for all of these students, who tomorrow will be doctors and dentists?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u31	Mrs Fonck, ladies and gentlemen, yes, this is a dossier that I inherited and I immediately asked the Public Health FPS to have as soon as possible an inventory of the dossier and a full view of the places available in the various health professions, as well as their planned development. I will also launch a consultation with the Planning Commission and all relevant stakeholders to identify possible solutions and possible reforms to the system to address the shortages in certain professions and the surpluses that are announced. My wish is to find a lasting solution. This solution cannot penalise students. They are not responsible for the system imposed on them. As you know, the problem is first and foremost at the entrance to medical studies, because there has been an over-enrolment in recent years. It is clear that, in dialogue, the Communities will have to shoulder their responsibilities. At this stage, however, I cannot give you details of the reform of the system, as the necessary consultation with all actors is still required. In the medium term, the government agreement provides for a detailed and reliable cadastre of all health care professions and this will allow planning commissions to better match the influx into the health professions. Clear agreements on quotas are provided for in the Government Agreement. Consultation with the competent bodies of the Communities will be necessary. Be assured that, as a general practitioner, I am particularly attentive to this issue and will seek consensus in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u32	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which I would call open, albeit somewhat lukewarm. Indeed, the state of play is well known for the years ahead, at least until 2020. The Planning Commission and the Deans of the Medical and Dental Faculties can very well inform you of this. I agree with you on the need to put things down again, in consultation with the actors, but also with the Communities, in order to try to find a lasting solution and avoid being again in such a situation. At the same time, I ask you, Madam Minister, to make a firm and unambiguous commitment today so that the students who will be graduated tomorrow can practise their profession. Thousands of qualified doctors cannot be prevented from practising. So, like the latter and their families, I'm counting on you. Thank you, Minister, for putting you there without delay and for sending them a signal quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u33	Mr President, Minister, Brussels Airlines is currently the only airline in Europe that still operates flights to and from Ebola countries. These are flights to and from Monrovia in Liberia and Freetown in Sierra Leone, which take place twice a week. Although all passengers coming from those countries to Zaventem have been screened for a few days, we all know that such screenings are not really efficient, if only because the incubation period for Ebola is between 2 and 21 days. This means that those who do not show any signs of disease may still be infected with the virus. I hope that Belgium will not become the gateway to Europe for Ebola, which, however, threatens to happen. Madam Minister, I also hope that you will not live as Miss Ebola in Europe and in the rest of the world if Zaventem becomes the gateway to Europe for Ebola. My question is therefore quite obvious. If all kinds of large airlines in Europe no longer fly to these countries, why does Brussels Airlines do so? Why, in your capacity as Minister of Health, are you not taking the initiative to ensure that the public health of our country and of Europe is protected and that flights to and from Ebola countries are simply removed in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, the Ebola dossier was reacted late worldwide. In our country, unfortunately, that was no different. The previous Minister for Health has also waited a long time to take concrete steps. Madam Secretary, you had to act on top speed after you took your oath, no matter what you did. We can only welcome the fact that, in the meantime, a coordinator has been appointed at national level and that consultations have also taken place at European level. We are very pleased with these initiatives, but despite your efforts in terms of treatment capacity, for which you have now sought a solution, we continue to face a challenge. Despite the fact that there were already agreements in 2006 to develop a separate capacity, they were not complied with. That is why there is still a great deal of concern on the ground today, especially with the nursing staff of the three hospitals that are now being appointed to take action in the event of an ebolage trap. This concern has increased as a result of events in Spain and the United States, for example, where nursing personnel have been infected despite precautions. Madam Minister, what concrete steps will you take to reassure the nursing staff and to provide adequate cover for the three hospitals that have now been appointed? Was there any possibility of bringing patients to other countries where there is better capacity at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u35	Mrs. Van Peel, I congratulate you on your maiden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is of course a very important matter and it is also the reason why I carried out the transfer with my predecessor only a few hours after my appointment. Believe me, the Ebola file was already a very pertinent file and measures had already been taken. I immediately then consulted all the services concerned to find out what further measures needed to be taken and to improve possible response procedures. As soon as the government gained the confidence of this Chamber, I took formal measures. Last Friday, on my proposal, the Council of Ministers appointed Dr Erika Vlieghe of the Institute of Tropical Medicine as Belgian Ebola Coordinator. It has the necessary scientific expertise and field experience. She is assisted by Dr. Daniel Reynders of the FPS Health Department. Their task is to coordinate the approach to Ebola in our country and to ensure that all measures can be taken. Dr. Vlieghe went straight to the airport on Friday and already proposed a plan for the safety of all staff at the airport on top of the measures taken earlier. That goes from cabin crew to those who clean the aircraft and those who handle the waste and baggage. One of the new measures concerns temperature controls, which have been taking place at Brussels Airport since Monday night. These checks shall be carried out in addition to checks at departure in the countries at risk. It is therefore an additional safety measure which should also alleviate the increasing concern of staff. Temperature checks or entry screenings are carried out on passengers on flights from the three affected West African countries upon arrival at Brussels Airport. Travellers with fever are checked at the airport by a nurse and, if necessary, by a doctor. The procedure for the safe handling of luggage has also been tightened. Before departure from one of the countries at risk, all food is removed from the luggage and at Brussels Airport luggage is also destroyed, if suspected, and the rest of the luggage is disinfected. Training is organised with different simulations, for example on what to do if a sick passenger is identified on board. Existing procedures will be kept under constant review and, if necessary, adapted. There is a very close cooperation with Brussels Airport, Brussels Airlines, federal and regional administrations and all other companies operating at the national airport. You should know that an Ebola epidemic in our country is extremely unlikely. I would like to emphasise this once again, because sometimes I get the impression that some people want to talk to our people about a sense of panic. In case of suspicious cases, a procedure has been worked out. After collection of a number of key elements of information that allow to estimate the risk, the person is transported to one of the reference hospitals. That transport is carried out by a specialized ambulance service from the Department of Defense. In one of the three reference hospitals, the person may be quarantined until there is an answer. Special procedures have also been developed for this purpose. There is constant consultation with the European and international bodies between me and my services. I myself took part in a meeting with health ministers from the other Member States on 16 October. Once again, we have had bilateral contacts with the German, Dutch, French and English ministers. So all the necessary measures were taken and we play briefly on the ball. A certain degree of cooperation has been developed from Europe, even if such a case were to occur in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u37	Madam Secretary, you have told me all kinds of things, but you have not answered my question. However, my question is quite simple. If almost all airlines, and not the smallest, decide not to fly to the Ebola countries, why does Brussels Airlines still do so? It can't be that hard to answer that, can it? You are here today to tell me that we are terrifying the people. Well, I can only replicate that than the British and German governments, more even, all of Europe, do. But we, we seem to know better! You know better. We continue our flights on those lands. This is almost criminal. If tomorrow Ebola reaches our country then you, and only you, are responsible for that! Madam Secretary, give me a simple answer. All of Europe still refuses to fly those countries, but we do. Why? The question is not whether Ebola will reach our country, the question is, thanks to your policy, when Ebola will reach our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u38	Madam Minister, I would like to comment on what the previous speaker said. I certainly do not want to go along with his words. I believe that I fully follow you in the fact that we should not create a panic either. There's no chance of an epidemic in our country right now. We have other matters to deal with here. I would therefore like to distance myself from the words of the previous speaker. Madam Secretary, I would also like to thank you for your reply. I am very pleased that this matter is being dealt with properly. I hope, as I have asked, that there will also be sufficient attention for the care staff who are still concerned. They are, in the first instance, the ones who are in a dangerous position. We will continue to follow this up with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u39	Mr President, Minister of Pensions, two weeks ago, when the announcement was made that the pension age would be raised to 67 years and that several studies indicated that it would affect a lot of workers, you replied to the press that only 5 to 10% of workers would be affected by this measure. The figures we have consulted do not give the same results at all. In your answer, you indicate that one of the ways to avoid working until age 67 is to take advantage of the early pension at age 63. But you often forget to mention that it takes at least 42 years of career. In 2018, we will reach 75% of women who have not reached 42 years of career. If I go further, for the number of men and women who have 38 years of career, i.e. those who will have to work up to 67 years, the figures are without appeal: 60% of women who work in Belgium will only have their pension at the age of 67. For men, it's 10%. Minister, as a result of your press release that only 5 to 10 per cent of workers would be affected, can you go back to these figures? Were they true or false? Are they part of the government communication on this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u40	Mr President, Mr Hedebouw, at the legal age of retirement, anyone who so wishes can take up his pension, regardless of the length of his career. The government agreement raises this age from 65 to 67 years, not from tomorrow but from 2030 so that this transition to the age of 67 does not take anyone without care. Of course, it will always be possible to take a pension early. In this case, career conditions will have to be met. I would add that we have not extended the conditions of career. Thus, the current legal duration of a career is 45 years and it is not changed, even if there were proposals to this effect, particularly in the Pension Reform Commission, where it was proposed to move to 46 years or even 47 years. The conditions of early retirement, already noted by the previous government, will allow by 2018 to take up his pension at 63 years, with 41 years of career, and not 42 as you indicate. These conditions aim to gradually increase to 62 years soon. I draw your attention to the fact that in case of a long career, it will be possible to leave even earlier. Thus, a person who starts a professional career at the age of 18 will be able to leave at the age of 61 as long as he or she capitalizes on 42 years of career. You suggest that in the future, three in four women and one in four men will not meet the condition of career at 63 years of age. I would like to have the numbers in your possession, different from mine, because I appreciate being able to confront sources to arrive at the truth, if possible. I just wanted to tell you that at present, 10% of people actually take their pension at age 65. This is the reality of today: 10%, whereas the average age of departure is 59 years in Belgium. If we add to this the heavy trades, as well as the partial pensions and the whole arrangement of the end of career, I remain convinced, according to the figures available to me, that the vast majority of people will obviously not be obliged to work until the age of 67.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u41	Mr Minister, I note that you are not going back to the figure you put forward in the press, of which you are very sure: only 5 to 10 per cent of those affected. Personally, I would be very interested in having the figures that lead you to these conclusions. As far as I am concerned, I have simply taken up the figures from the study by Mr Jos Berghman, Chairman of the Management Committee for our Social Security. In his study on pensions in Belgium, the figures I'm giving you today come to light. I'd like you to be able to share your own numbers with the general public, especially since you're talking about the average starting age at 59, but you forget to say that your government has closed all other exit doors, such as pre-pensions. I mean today at the level of the general public, that I expect in the coming weeks a denial based on numbers rather than propaganda and information from government parties. Can you deny the fact that six out of ten women will have to work until the age of 67? I'm talking about women, because men have longer careers, which are going to be the first victims. Minister, when the workers hear that from you, then we can start a real debate on this 67-year-old measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen, your interview last weekend raised absolute doubt about your policy of drastic savings at SNCB. We can't find ourselves there anymore! Neither do you, I think! Citizens, SNCB workers, commuters deserve an answer. What is the exact amount? You have made it laugh a lot, but thousands of people are very worried about their work, about the future of SNCB's services and about our country's public services. Today, you must tell us the exact amount. You guarantee everything: the volume of employment, the maintenance and even the development of services. Where are you going to make these cuts? Where are you going to save those billions of euros in the SNCB budget? Yesterday, you met the unions at the MR headquarters. You don't have a firm! You don't have good numbers! Can we help you... have you delivered any leads? Yesterday I took part in a debate on local and community television. Three members present here can testify to this. One Member of Parliament said: "There are more and more commuters; there are more and more needs, especially for the RSP; there are more and more ways to invest." And he added: "I'm very worried about what's going to happen at SNCB". Me too, like thousands of people!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u43	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the temptation is great in asking these questions to fall into invectives and aggressiveness. But behind these questions and words we exchange, there are men and women, families, workers, commuters who are simply worried about their future. How are they going to move? How are they going to go to work? How are they going to study? It's the most important thing for me. We will have to continue to debate and remain worthy because the situation is serious. You have aroused "the emotion" – that is the term you used in this Chamber – by saying that the 2.1 billion euro savings had not been quoted. However, according to the summary record of the House, the truth is quite different. During the weekend, this figure was denied. That would have been 670 million euros. This morning, after reading the press, according to the trade unions, there would be 2.1 billion euros. Minister, what is the exact amount of savings that will have to be made at the SNCB level? On the other hand, at what level will the savings be made? Is it personnel, security, pricing, investment? You said this morning that the RER would not suffer from slowing down in terms of programming. Can you confirm that? One can also wonder about investments on so-called less frequented lines that are targeted, as was already the case in the past? At the time, together with several political groups, including yours, we had reacted strongly to say that under no circumstances should C lines be abandoned but left as they were. I therefore hope that you will reassure the whole population on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u44	Mr President, Madam Minister for Mobility, ladies and gentlemen, every day more than 750,000 commuters take the train, and they have a lot of courage. Indeed, they regularly face punctuality problems, the suppression of their train. These are major challenges. On behalf of my group, I would like to recall how much rail is an element of a strategy that is not only environmentally friendly, which is very dear to us, but also to the economy. I would like to recall how daily traffic jams are an obstacle to the normal and friendly functioning of the economy, an aspect which should be of interest to the Liberals, at least those who remain so. Yet today, the situation is dramatic. I would like to take advantage of the silence in this chamber to ask you two questions, Madam Minister. What is the real amount of savings that has been passed on to you? You're the heir to a government agreement. I assume that this figure was communicated to you after the agreement reached and after you accepted the mission entrusted to you. Is it 2.1 billion over the entire legislature or 3 billion as it appears to be today, as a result of a number of measures taken during the previous legislature? In what field? You have excluded yourself – it is very happy! – security. After Buizingen, it's the least! But you also said you wanted to exempt the staff. Who are we going to touch? The rural areas, the areas that will not be served tomorrow, because of the lack of uninvited passengers still to take the train in good conditions? Is it the RER, which already suffers from years and years of delay? In short, Madam Minister, in a pacified chamber, give us today not only the figures, but also the reality of those figures! I hope you'll be part of our fight and I'll help you get the government back on this iniquitous decision for commuters.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week we talked about savings for SNCB. We then assumed savings of EUR 2.1 billion. I was therefore very surprised when I read the newspaper on Saturday morning and heard in the morning news that it was a different amount. Two hours later, your cabinet spokesperson did not tell the people on the street or the union who would have been poorly informed that it was a mistake and that it was a completely different figure. Your cabinet doesn't just worry everyone, it's ridiculous. We understand the concern and indignation that people are living with today. We, too, reject violence and destruction. You couldn't do that yesterday, you can't do it today, you can't do it tomorrow. On the other hand, we are in favour of a genuine social dialogue. This morning, I heard Professor Gerard on the radio. That's probably no stranger to you, Mr. Beke. In his view, social dialogue is not just about changing points and commas. Real social dialogue means that the various partners can make changes in substance. I note that the government is constantly pouring oil on the fire against the working man who receives the invoice of government decisions day after day. That is why the government should not be alarmed by all the misunderstandings and indignation that live at the base. Madam Secretary, what is the right amount? Will the amount you are giving us in the Chamber last tomorrow or will it have been changed again by then? Where will you achieve the savings? What consultation have you had? Which social consultation will you start? What's it gonna look like? Will the social dialogue be about points and commas or will it really be possible to talk about content?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u46	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a number of questions have already been asked about the savings made by SNCB. However, I would like to draw your attention, not only because it is my first question during my first Question Time, but because my question concerns another aspect of the savings made by SNCB. During my train ride to Brussels, I read in De Standaard today that both Christian and Socialist railway unions are not planning strikes on the official day of action on 6 November. In the past, it has often been the practice that national trade union actions are deliberately stopped not on rail, but on additional trains. That's not really a problem in itself. In this way, we encourage the use of public transport, speedier peaks and less harmful to the environment. It is doubtful whether this additional service, if it were there, would be cost-effective, especially in times of savings in which we are today and to which SNCB should also contribute. It would be punishment if public money were used to take action against this government. That is why I have two clear questions for you, Madam Secretary. Will additional trains be added for the official day of action of 6 November? If so, will this additional service be cost-effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u47	I congratulate Mrs De Coninck on her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u48	Mr President, Madam Minister, I have the honour to ask my first question of topicality. I think we will be unanimous: this is indeed a topical issue in view of everything that has appeared in the press and in view of the number of questions asked today. To get a clear picture of the future of SNCB, can you tell me what action has been taken by the previous government if, however, there have been any? What amounts were they on? Were they recurrent? If these measures concerned SNCB and Infrabel, can you tell me in what proportion? Finally, you know the importance that the Reform Movement attaches to social dialogue. What emerged from your meeting with the staff yesterday?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u49	I congratulate Mr. Foret on his Mayden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the savings on railways are very hard on us. Last week we discussed an amount of EUR 2.1 billion. Today, an article in the French-speaking press refers to previous savings, bringing the total savings to EUR 3 billion, and for next year, 2015, that is more than EUR 338 million. This is more than 10% of the amount given annually to SNCB and Infrabel. It is an impossible task for the management and management of the two railway companies to carry out such an operation without affecting the provision of services. I'll ask my first question right away. Madam Minister, can you say to the House today that these savings can be made without affecting the provision of services to travellers? Madam Secretary, it is clear that your honeymoon as a minister is already over, if they have ever begun. The protest is fierce. It is not always smart or appropriate and violence is certainly not a solution, but the main cause of all the discontent lies, of course, in the government's decision to save so much. Like other Members of this House, I would finally like to clarify the effects of this saving. Where will they be felt? What's Infrabel's share? What is the share of SNCB? Will it be in the investments, and how much? Will it be in operation? Will prices be higher? Will lines be abolished? Will one not order another train orders anymore, or much less? Where will these efforts be felt? I would like to have an answer to that, but also to the question of what progress has been made in the consultation with SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. They give me the opportunity to present the global savings that SNCB and Infrabel will achieve over the next few years. I hope that this will help to remove the blur to which you all refer. It was decided to make a saving of 188 million euros in 2015 and 118 million euros in 2016 and the following years, until 2019. I wanted to communicate illico about the 663 million euros, a figure that does not change. These are real figures. The figure of 2.1 billion savings over five years is a somewhat truncated view of the situation: it is calculated in constant terms, without taking into account the indexation of the allocation over the same period. This government has therefore decided to make less than EUR 2.1 billion over five years. To answer Mr.Foret's question, the Di Rupo government achieved 162 million savings in 2013 and 172 million in 2014, representing 334 million in two years. To show me concrete and pedagogical and to avoid misinterpretations, it is a savings of 188 million in 2015, 118 million in 2016 compared to the 2015 allocation, a total amount of 307 million, 118 million in 2017 compared to the 2016 allocation, a total amount of 426 million, 118 million in 2018 compared to the 2017 allocation, a total amount of 544 million, and 118 million in 2019 compared to the 2018 allocation, a total amount of 663 million. To this, we must add the decisions of the Di Rupo government, which had planned a savings of 150 million each year. I am also bound by this decision, which, alas, has not been implemented by the previous minister, Mr Labille. In addition, the effect of automatic wage indexation will be neutral for the SNCB budget. Clearly, these savings affect SNCB and Infrabel, like all departments of the federal state, but also, as you know, as the Walloon, Flemish and Wallonia-Brussels governments. As Minister of Mobility, I would like to reassure you that these savings will not jeopardize the safety of rail transport, the maintenance of a quality of service to customers and the objective of debt stability. I hope that these savings will make it possible to sustain the quality of employment in these two companies that work in an increasingly competitive environment. As far as the distribution between Infrabel and SNCB is concerned, these two companies will forward a proposal to me in the next few days on the basis of the priorities I have just outlined to you. As far as trade union actions are concerned, I fully understand the dissatisfaction of SNCB's customers. I regret that the trade unions took action before I had the opportunity to talk to the trade unions. However, I really want to work together, both with the managers of Infrabel and SNCB and with the trade unions. My door will therefore always be open to the workers' representatives. We need to work together in the interests of the customers, the employees of Infrabel and SNCB and all taxpayers, who finance rail transport. In reply, I refer to the coalition agreement, which provides, on the one hand, for a protocol of social agreement to prevent wild strikes to be included in the management contracts and the law and, on the other hand, for the two railway companies to draw up a proposal on guaranteed service in the event of a strike after consultation with the social partners. I want to be clear, so priority is given to social dialogue and the provisions do not in any way prejudice the right to strike. With regard to the meeting with the railwaymen, I wished to meet with them to listen to them and reassure them. I also wish to be a field minister in direct contact with all workers' representatives. It was also agreed to see us very soon - and I would add: regularly, i.e. monthly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u52	Madam Minister, let us not be reassured. You first tell us 2.1 billion, last weekend it was 600 million and a few, and now it's less than 2 billion, we heard it. You're talking about the quality of work. I didn't hear a word about the volume of employment. Will you, yes or no, maintain the job? Are you going to work on maintaining lines, whether large, medium or small, after a working week or not? Will you, yes or no, delete stations? I announced this to all colleagues last week; you will keep saying that it is the fault of others. The Di Rupo government is carrying all the evils! Mr. Chastel may testify, Mr. Reynders may testify. Do you really believe what you're saying? Was there a decision by the Di Rupo government in 2014, which decided, on the basis of a notification - which will be our proof - that we were going to save 150 million euros in 2015? When were you in the budget conclave to propose and work on the 2015 budget? Never.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u53	I note to the minister's response that, in any case, she is better aware of the previous government's figures than she is supposed to be developing at the present time. Incidentally, I think the MR was part of the previous majority and this endless repetition of "it's not me, it's the others", it's a little tiresome. I think that at some point, we must also be able to take on certain things. You are told that you are waiting for the proposals of the two structures for savings. From what I was able to hear and read in the press this morning, these structures are not ready to make any proposals to you because they say that the savings are of such magnitude that they attack the very foundations of railway policy. Therefore, they do not see very clearly what they should do. I really invite you to come to Parliament very quickly, in the Committee on Infrastructure, to provide us with answers that we have not had today with regard to the savings in personnel and security.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u54	Mr President, Madam Minister, I am disappointed. Despite the magnificent silence of the House, I think you have not reassured the parliamentarians, the commuters, or the workers. First, parliamentarians. You certainly did not reassure the parliamentarians about the figures because I am rather literary, I think you are inventing a new quality at home which is the presentation of the figures. When we look at all the tables in committee, we will probably be able to see that the whole of the SNCB group, throughout the whole of the legislature, will be penalized, thanks to your policy, by a minimum of 2 billion or even 3 billion if you include the decisions taken earlier. We will shed light on this. That is the reality! For commuters, we have not received any reply on what they are entitled to expect from public service and rail, namely punctuality, trains that depart and arrive on time, which will allow us to pursue a true modern mobility policy in this country. As far as workers are concerned, you are no longer talking about employment but about the quality of employment. I fear that tomorrow your semantic slip will lead to very harsh decisions on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u55	Mr President, I used to think that it was the intention of Question Time for a Member to ask a question, for the Minister to answer it and for the assembly to be clear. Today I see that neither the other questioners have been given any clarity. I believe that the Conference of Presidents should look at ways of clarifying the organisation of Question Time. Madam Secretary, you talked about the quality of jobs. You are no longer talking about the quantity of employment. You said that you do not really know what amount will be saved. I can only draw one clear conclusion from this: the concern that exists today, both among workers and, above all, among travellers, is more than justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u56	Madam Minister, you did not reply directly to my question as to whether additional trains will be put in on 6 November and what the cost might be, but I fully understand that. Nevertheless, I wish you every success in implementing the savings made by SNCB, in consultation with all the actors, so that the level of debt of that public undertaking can be reduced. I myself and my party fully respect the right to strike and the right to peaceful action, but that must not happen at the expense of the taxpayer, because it would be ironic that working people are hampered by strikes, but that the strikers themselves receive additional trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u57	Minister, I am rather pleased with the clarifications you have provided. I suppose my colleagues have no doubt about that. You have, without a doubt, put the figures on the table, in an assembly, with the traceability it entails. You've taken your responsibilities. Now, I assume that the work will begin in committee, the social dialogue will also begin. It is clear that it is not today, in a few minutes, that we will be able to settle the future of SNCB. I have no doubt, in view of your temperament and your response, that this will be done in concert and for the good and general interest of users and workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u58	Madam Secretary, your answer was disappointing. It was also very clear, because you did not answer the questions, that you cannot guarantee today in Parliament that travellers will not feel your savings. There is an alternative, Madam Secretary. The alternative is to invest just more in public transport. This is also necessary to tackle the huge traffic problems, to do something in the fight against environmental pollution and global warming. Colleagues, I would like to end with an appeal to travellers and workers. The savings will hit both workers and travellers very hard. The hundreds of thousands of travellers can today become employees' ally and together fight for quality public transport, for strong SNCB, for better quality. That is the challenge for the next few days and weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u59	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, I heard from a Belga dispatch about the decisions made by a select ministerial committee or by the government this morning. Nevertheless, you are confronted not only with the decisions of the previous government, in which your formation participated, but also with court decisions. Fortunately, there have been legal actions – and my municipality honours – to destroy successive plans! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are faced not only with the application of a judicial decision – that of the Court of First Instance, of 31 July – but also with judgments of the Brussels Court of Appeal, handed down in particular in 2005, which were confirmed by judgments of the Court of Cassation. I therefore stress the need to reconcile these different jurisprudences, which are not contradictory between them. Indeed, all are based on the Gosuin Decree of 1999 on noise pollution. First, I invite you to clarify whether you are determined to respect and enforce all court decisions. Secondly, when you read the judgment of the Brussels Court of First Instance correctly, you are required, with a view to re-establishing air routes, to comply in particular with the 1996 law on procedures for the impact and enhanced consultation of the public. Are you going to make sure that all these cases cease, even before you announce the re-establishment of the roads that were in force before February 6th? I would also like to draw your attention to this: contrary to what is sometimes said wrongly in legal terms, the stricto sensu mechanism of the Court of First Instance in its decision of 31 July does not order the return to the previous situation. This is found in recitals, not in the device itself. Thirdly, I read in your government agreement this imperative mention: "A cooperation agreement will be concluded with the Brussels-Capital Region. It will concern the method of applying noise standards in Brussels." I now tell you that there is no need to conclude a cooperation agreement to implement the Gosuin Order. All the courts recognized that this order was to apply without the need to conclude a cooperation agreement. If you are looking to limit its scope, you will lose a lot of time: the order applies fully without restriction. It has been validated by all jurisdictions. I would therefore like to know what this is about. Finally, you say you are ready to consider structural measures, but you are closing the door to some, including the establishment of the European night and the relocation of activities. Therefore, what structural measures are you planning to limit airport activity?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Maingain, I am very pleased that you are asking me this question, which gives me the opportunity to tell you, as you read in the Belga communiqué, that the government has taken on its responsibilities. Indeed, I have just sent to Belgocontrol, considering the order issued by the Brussels Court of First Instance on 31 July 2014, a ministerial instruction immediately instructing Belgocontrol to prepare and implement the return to the situation prior to 6 February 2014. To be very clear and precise, it is a matter of responding to the order of the Brussels Court of First Instance of 31 July 2014 ordering the Belgian State to stop using the canal roads as modified or implemented since 6 February 2014, to cease using the two sub-assemblies known as the left turn, within three months of the service of the decision, under penalty of a penalty of EUR 50 000 per day delay schedule, with a maximum of EUR 36 million. The government has wished to respond to the thousands of Brusselsers who have been heavily overflew because of the mistakes of my predecessors. It was the only way. As Mrs Fonck admitted in a letter sent to Belgocontrol, the implementation of the so-called ring and Ikea roads was dangerous and incidentally led to a decrease in the airport's capacity. However, this solution must be transitory. In order to develop a structural and definitive solution, the airport agreements that were confirmed by the Councils of Ministers on 19 December 2008 and 26 February 2010 will be the starting point for my political action to combat noise pollution around Brussels-National Airport, particularly in densely populated areas. All judgments will have to be examined. I understand the plight of the people of eastern Brussels, the Oostrand and the Walloon Brabant. I want to surround myself with experts and listen to all the associations that have sometimes fought for twenty years in this dossier, as I have already begun to do no later than yesterday morning. All possibilities will have to be examined: all roads, such as all potential investments in airport infrastructure or changes in night activities aimed at reducing noise pollution, as foreseen in the government agreement. I also hope that the preferential use of runways and the wind standards that form part of these agreements will be more transparent, respected and anchored in a law on flight procedures. I have learned how much suffering is caused by Runway 01 for the inhabitants of the affected communes. I want to see this on my own and I will go to the field as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u61	Mr. Chairman, I understand that the minister wishes to explore all possible avenues. I take note of that. I draw his attention to the fact that even in the development of transitional measures, the 1996 law must be respected and a consultation procedure must be provided. We must respect Gosuin's decree. I do not believe that you are answering my essential question, which is that if you want to meet the case law, you will have to devise structural measures that are far more significant than you suggest: to review the very functioning of the airport activity and to limit it. Without this option, you'll never get out of the dilemma of overflights of densely populated neighbourhoods. I invite you to think carefully about structural measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u62	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the budget cuts announced: 12 % savings on staff, 20 % on operating costs, 30 % on investments in scientific and cultural establishments, 16.5 % on subsidies to the Royal Mint Opera. Madam Secretary of State, we are witnessing a double murder! You are severely reducing the budget of the institutions, which will prevent any ambition and influence at the international level, both at the scientific and cultural level. You're deliberately choking them! Besides, you're attacking the structures. The announced empowerment does not respond to any economic rationality. Worse, it will prevent synergy and lead to a much more costly operation of each of these institutions. Here we are witnessing the planned and thoughtful dismantling of all Belgian science and culture policy! I can understand that a separatist party is attacking the institutions that radiate Belgium. I can understand that a separatist party is attacking all the symbols of unity in this state. But I find it difficult to understand that these frontal attacks are carried out by the entire government, with a Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Reynders – whom we will question as soon as he returns – who drastically reduces the subsidies of the Opera. Madam Secretary of State, what is the reality of these figures? What are your priorities? What's going to disappear? Should we expect our museums to close one more day a week, as in Portugal or Italy? Will the entrance fees for these museums increase? Are you considering the communitarisation or closure of some of our cultural and scientific institutions? Finally, what place do you give to culture in this state?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u63	Mr President, dear colleague, thank you for your question. Science policy has a huge variety. It includes basic and applied scientific research but also the art treasures of this country such as CINEMATEK, the Museum of René Magritte and the Museum of the Iguanodons. In addition, space, RMI and research in Antarctica are also my responsibility. For the sake of clarity, I would like to point out that the three federal cultural institutions, namely Bozar, the National Orchestra of Belgium and the Mint, are not within my competence. They are the responsibility of my colleague and Deputy Prime Minister Reynders. I will therefore not comment on these three institutions. The coalition agreement is very clear on science policy. It is a very good basis for drawing up a well-founded policy vision in the near future. Together with the government, I believe it is essential to continue to fund basic research in this country. The recent Belgian Nobel Prize awarded to François Englert reminds us of the need to further support fundamental research. It leads to revolutionary innovations and the foundation on which any future technological development rests. In order to meet European research and development and innovation objectives, the government will focus on better policy alignment with the regions in terms of research and scientific public services. To this end, the opportunities to be developed and the complementarities to be mobilised in terms of instruments and means will be identified. The government intends to conduct an inventory of federal research grants, awards and subsidies at all levels of government. The government will sustain the professional discount exemption for researchers. I am convinced that a well-founded science policy can be the driving force behind this country and can trigger a dynamic through effective cooperation at international level. As far as the budget is concerned, the same savings have been made for Science Policy as for other public services, personnel, operation and investment. I will explore how synergies and efficiency gains can be achieved through a thorough collaboration within science policy. I would also like to nuance the report in the press: there is no need to cause panic. Exceptions are provided for, for example, interuniversity attraction poles, the Airbus programme and certain research and development contracts. At the Science Policy PPS, 10 million euros of expenditure had already been blocked as a result of savings by the previous government. The structure of science policy will be modernised and harmonised so that it will be adapted to today's standards. The establishment of a new structure that reflects accountability and accountability is the best way to achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u64	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I know the division of competences, but given the absence of Mr Reynders, we must also recall the emotion that this statement has aroused in the cultural and scientific circles and we understand their concerns. Indeed, the whole budget will be drastically reduced, whether at the level of human resources, personnel, operations, investments, but as usual, this will not affect the investments, the staff or the functioning of these institutions. Well, I don't believe it, minister! I would also remind you that three bicommunal institutions fall within the competence of Mr Reynders, and we will ask him about this, but you also have the Museums of Fine Arts, which are a fundamental asset here in Belgium and a fundamental asset for Brussels. I would point out that we are very concerned about this. We want to safeguard this heritage, which belongs to all Belgians and which must be shown to them. As a result, we will immediately table a resolution, because some assets in our public companies, bought by Belfius, Belgacom and others today, are not displayed to citizens. I'm afraid of this government. I'm afraid these works of art will be confiscated. Therefore, tomorrow we want them to be at the service and accessible to all Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u65	End of oral questions for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u66	By letter dated 15 October 2014, the Brussels-Capital Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 15 October 2014, the Parliament of the Brussels-Capital Region announced that it had constituted itself at its meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u67	By letter dated 16 October 2014, the United Assembly of the Joint Community Committee informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 16 October 2014, the Assembly meeting of the Joint Community Commission announced that it had constituted itself at its meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u68	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Patrick Dewael, Christian Brotcorne, André Frédéric, Peter Luykx, Raf Terwingen
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u69	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (393/1+3) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (393/1+3) The discussion of the single article has been opened. The discussion of the single article is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the committee discussed this proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure on 8 October 2014. The sixth state reform transferred the power of succession of the Committee I from Senate to Chamber. To this end, the law of 18 July 1991 and Rule 149 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber were already amended during the previous legislature, and a draft of the Rules of Procedure of the Advisory Committee was adopted. Rule 149, as last amended, provides that at the beginning of the parliamentary term, the Chamber shall appoint the chairmen of the political groups as members of the advisory committee, with only the chairmen of political groups of at least 12 members entitled to vote. The proposal before us concerns a more appropriate formula for the composition of the committee, in particular the appointment of as many members as is necessary to ensure that each political group has at least one member of the committee. For this parliamentary term, this means that there are 13 Members. At that time, Mr Dewael, President of the Chamber, the main proposer of the proposal, indicated in committee that the proposal was the result of discussions at the Conference of Presidents. The proposal was then discussed. Mrs Barbara Pas welcomed the scope of the proposed amendment, since from now on all the groups will be represented in the advisory committee. It regretted, however, that such a change, which would help to increase parliamentary control of police and intelligence services, would come so late. Moreover, it could not get rid of the impression that the choice was partly determined by the fact that the Flemish Interest no longer fulfils the conditions for forming a political group during this parliamentary term. When the Senate was responsible for the succession of the Permanent Committee I, the Flemish Interest was never allowed to sit on the advisory committee. In order to remedy that democratic deficit, the speaker said, she tabled an amendment to amend the proposal. It proposed the inclusion of a new member in the text, which would enable the non-approved political groups to be represented on the advisory committee by an additional member without voting rights. Mr Van Hees also regretted that the small political groups were not represented on the advisory committee. He indicated that this was a general problem in the Chamber, where MEPs of political formations who did not claim the status of political group had less rights and powers. They do not have the right to vote in committees, nor do they have the right to participate in the work of certain committees, which are nevertheless of political importance, such as the follow-up of foreign missions and the monitoring of permanent committees P and I, or the work of the Conference of Presidents. However, since this is a general problem, which goes beyond merely the composition of the advisory committee of the permanent committees P and I, the speaker would not table any amendments in the context of the discussion of this proposal. In addition to this debate, he felt it was necessary to have a general reflection on the concept of a political group and its status. He pointed out that it would be possible in the municipal councils to form a political group with only one elected member, with the same advantages and rights as his co-elected members. The speaker wondered how the Chamber would function if it were composed solely of political formations with fewer than five members. Mr Francken warned against the risk of derailment when committees dealing with sensitive information were opened up to few representative formations. During the previous legislature, the Chamber had the unpleasant experience in which a Member has shamelessly distributed confidential information, covering its parliamentary work. According to the speaker, the minimum threshold of representativeness to be allowed to sit on the advisory committees is certainly negotiable, but it would be irresponsible in any case to include members in those committees who belong to an insufficient representative formation. Mrs Onkelinx considered it perfectly normal to provide for special precautions for the few special committees whose members are informed of sensitive information and documents. In other national parliaments, even stricter measures sometimes apply, including criminal sanctions. Reference has been made to the attitude of a Member of Parliament during the previous legislature. In retrospect, one can only rejoice at the fact that this person has not been able to lay his hands on the information which has been communicated to Parliament by obligation of confidentiality. In addition, the speaker welcomed the fact that certain political parties would not be represented in the future guidance committee. In this debate, Mr Dewael distinguished two things: the representativeness of the political groups and the rule of proportionality which generally governs the composition and functioning of the organs of the Chamber, on the one hand, and the confidentiality rule which applies, in particular, in certain committees, on the other. As regards the first point, representativeness, the relevant threshold of representativeness can always be discussed in order to participate in the work of the Court's bodies in general. In this context, any group that might feel disadvantaged can always take the initiative to hold a debate and submit proposals. On the second point, confidentiality, which is essential in this debate, the speaker could only observe that in the past certain Members of Parliament, regardless of their political colour, have acted lightly and have disclosed the content of reports subject to confidentiality. At present, Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure regulates the obligation of professional secrecy. That Article provides for sanctions, in particular the prohibition of membership of the bodies subject to the obligation of professional secrecy, the non-replacement of those bodies and the retention of parliamentary remuneration. It was recalled that the question of the possible extension of the system of penalties has already been discussed. Finally, the vote was taken. Mrs Pas's Amendment No 1 was rejected unanimously. The only article of the proposal was then adopted unanimously, with the erratum to be replaced, in the French text, by "Membres membres effectifs'.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have just heard from the reporter my statement in committee that it is a good amendment to the Rules of Procedure, but that it is so late. My question is therefore simple and I hope that one of the proposers will be able to answer it: why can we do what was not possible in the past? If the Senate's reports were the guidance committee of the Standing Committee I until the previous legislature, it was noted that already in 2002 parties who fell out of the boat, such as the CdH, were in favour of having all the political groups represented in the guidance committee of the Standing Committee I. The reason for not doing so was that the number of members had to be limited because of the confidential nature of the work. Ladies and gentlemen, that cannot be the reason at all. Until today, however, this confidentiality is still equally important, I think. The very select club so-called trustworthy has organized leaks in the past, in 2001 and also in 2004. When the advisory committee had only five members, the annual reports of the Standing Committee I were published in the newspapers before the advisory committee had approved them. The explanation why we can now do what we couldn't do in the past is to look elsewhere. All groups can finally be represented, because our group is no longer a recognised group. Only the PS is decorating Fury Onkelinx. Each time, at the beginning of a legislative term, when it appeared that, on the basis of a principle of proportionality, a member of our party had to sit on that advisory committee, the Senate immediately decided to reduce the number of members of that committee. During the 1990s, the number of Members was increased to give a sp.a. access, and after that, every legislature was again very selectively reduced in number in order to clarify our group. At some point it became so bad that one completely renounced the principle of proportionality. The number of members of the Standing Committee I was limited to five members, without any proportional representation, without system D Until now, any change in the rules has been a common party policy. I therefore welcome the fact in committee that the amendment of the Rules of Procedure restores the principle of proportionality at least more or less. Each group will be represented. That basic pillar of our democratic thinking was defeated in the past, with all the senate maneuvers. It is a minimum that that principle is being applied again today. I would like to ask you whether you are prepared today to declare that the Rules of Procedure will not be reworded for the next legislative term if the cards are shaken differently. Ladies and gentlemen, in a parliamentary democracy, it should be the logic itself that all political parties represented in a Parliament should be able to exercise control over the activities of the police and security services. This is all the more true in this country, because in the past, and perhaps even today, the security services of that country appear to be shadowing politicians of democratic parties. Any party represented in Parliament must have the right of access to these services, especially in order to avoid derailments in this area. In order to achieve this, we have tabled an amendment allowing the non-approved political groups to be represented on the advisory committees by an observer, an added member without voting rights. Ladies and gentlemen, I am counting on your democratic reflex and your support for our amendment today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent report she has just presented and which, I believe, puts the issues at stake. In a way, I must also thank Mr Dewael, who convinced me to table an amendment today. Even if this is included in the report, I must recall the two levels of this debate. Firstly, there is the question of all the rights which are denied to a formation which does not constitute a political group, since it does not have five elected representatives. I do not want to go back to that now, but we will have to talk about it again, because it is not normal for a two-speed democracy in this Parliament to prevail: the democracy of the Members who make up a political group, and that of the Members who do not make up one. Secondly, there is the specific question of membership of this Monitoring Committee of the P and R Committees. In this regard, the arguments which have been provided in committee and which are referred to in the report need to be clarified once again. What is the relationship between the number of elected members of a group and its respectability or possible deviations? I don't see the supposed connection at all. As evidence, I note that it was a certain Mr Franken who developed this argument in committee. Is there not, however, any drift on the side of his party and on Mr Franken's leader himself? Every day, new drifts are mentioned in the press. But this party is the most important in the House! I have also heard Mrs Onkelinx emphasise the need to block the extreme right, and this is a concern that I understand and share of course. However, I believe, Mrs Onkelinx, that all possible political means must be used to that end, but not by reducing democratic rights. Otherwise, you enter the very game you claim to fight. That is why I believe that this answer is totally inappropriate. In addition, the expertise of the PTB would be, dare I say, welcome to this Monitoring Committee of the P and R Committees. Let me give you an example. A parliamentarian in this room has been the subject of telephone calls that have been found to be illegal and unwelcome by the courts. This was confirmed in two first-instance judgements and two appeals. Mr Raoul Hedebouw, who had been listening for several days or even weeks in 2001, had organised a European counter-summit, in a completely insignificant and non-profit setting. He was subject to these surveillances because he wanted to exercise his right as a citizen. Are such listening normal? No. Parliament's role is to exercise this control, and one member of the PTB has a place in the committee, which I would even go so far as to say more than others. In addition, the context must be taken into account. Taking into account the oral questions asked today, we find that one in two spoke of the social movements that are currently developing. This is not surprising with the ultra-right policy of the government. In this context, it is necessary to fear possible abuses by the police and intelligence services. The place in the said committee of a party such as the PTB, which is linked to social movements, associations and trade unions, would therefore be entirely justified. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the reasons why we tabled the amendment before you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u73	Mr President, it is true that a debate of principle will have to be held. It can be admitted that the Hondt key - the rule of proportionality of the groups - intervenes to determine the composition of the commissions. This is also part of the correct application of universal suffrage. I do not dispute this point of view. Another question is whether certain bodies can meet without giving access to certain members of this assembly. That is the principle of in camera. It applies to third parties, but not to members of the assembly. All members of this assembly have the same powers, the same constitutional rights in terms of control. It is not acceptable that, as a matter of principle, several bodies should be barred from access to various members of this assembly. Of course, we have sympathy or antipathy according to the ideologies involved, but this is not the very principle of exercising the parliamentary right of control over all acts of the executive and all the authorities that depend on it. I will also subsequently introduce a proposal for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure or, in any case, a correct interpretation, so that the proceedings do not prohibit the access of some committees or bodies of Parliament to all those who have the right to sit on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u74	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The discussion of the Single Rule is closed. The discussion of the single article is closed. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u75	• 2 years Marco Van Hees cs (393/5) ****** The vote on the amendments and the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure will be taken. The vote on the amendments and the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u76	By letter of 18 August 2014, the first President of the Council of State announced that the General Assembly of that Council, meeting at a public meeting on 10 June 2014, in accordance with Article 70 of the coordinated laws of the Council of State, has drawn up a list of three candidates for a vacant post of State Council in the Dutch language framework, as a result of the resignation of Mr Luc Hellin, President of the Chamber. By letter of 18 August 2014, the first President of the Council of State informed the Chamber that, at its public hearing on 10 June 2014, the General Assembly of that Council had proceeded, in accordance with Article 70 of the Coordinated Laws on the Council of State, to establish a list of three candidates for a vacant position of State Counsellor in the Dutch language group, following the retirement of Mr Luc Hellin, President of the Chamber. It was proposed by the Council of State, however, without unanimity: - first candidate: Mr Koen Muylle, referee at the Constitutional Court; - second candidate: Ms Patricia De Somere, First Auditor at the Council of State; - third candidate: Mr Luc Vermeire, First Auditor at the Council of State. The Council of State, however, did not unanimously present: - First candidate: Mr. Koen Muylle, a referendum in the Constitutional Court; - Second candidate: Ms Patricia De Somere, first auditor of the Council of State; - third candidate: Mr Luc Vermeire, first auditor at the Council of State. Since the nomination is not unanimous, the Chamber of Representatives may, in accordance with Article 70 (1), eighth paragraph, of the laws of the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, either confirm the list proposed by the Council of State or propose another list of three names, which shall be expressly stated, within 30 days of receipt of the nomination. Since the presentation is not unanimous, the House of Representatives may, in accordance with Article 70, § 1, paragraph 8, of laws on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, within a period not exceeding 30 days from the date of receipt of the presentation, either confirm the list submitted by the Council of State or present another list of three names which is formally motivated. Article 70, § 1, 11th paragraph, of the same laws provides that the 30-day period referred to above shall be interrupted "during the parliamentary recess as determined by the Chamber and Senate." In Article 70, § 1, paragraph 11, of the same laws, it is stipulated that the above-mentioned thirty-day period shall be interrupted "in the course of the parliamentary holidays fixed by the House and the Senate". Article 70 (1) of the same law provides that a further period of 30 days shall begin on the day following the appointment of the Permanent Bureau of the Chamber. In Article 70(1), twelfth paragraph, of the same laws, it is stipulated that a new period of thirty days shall begin to run on the day following the installation of the final Bureau of the Chamber. Any nomination of a list by the Chamber shall be made on the basis of applications received by the Council of State. The possible submission of a list by the Chamber should be based on nominations received by the Council of State. The following applications were submitted: - Ms Isabelle Bacquaert, attorney at the Antwerp Bar; - Ms Ann Carette, part-time lecturer at the Faculty of Law at the University of Antwerp; - Ms Nathalie De Clercq, Member of the Council of the Council for Authorisations; - Ms Patricia De Somere, First Auditor at the Council of State; - Ms Joke Goris, auditor at the Council of State; - Mr Koen Muylle, referer to the Constitutional Court; - Mr Jo Olivier, Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Brecht Steen, Auditor at the Council of State; - Mr Dries Van Eeckhoutte, Hearing Officer at the Council of State; - Mr Geert Van Haegenborgh, referee at the Court of Cassation; - Mr Luc Vermeire, First Auditor at the Council of State; Mrs. Anja Wijnants, judge at the Council for Foreigner's Contests. The following applications were submitted: - Ms. Isabelle Bacquaert, lawyer at the Antwerp Bar; - Ms. Ann Carette, a part-time professor at the Faculty of Law at the University of Antwerp; - Mme Nathalie De Clercq, Membre du "Council for Authorisations Disputes"; - Ms. Patricia De Somere, first auditor at the Council of State; - Ms. Joke Goris, Auditor of the Council of State; - Mr. Koen Muylle, a referendum in the Constitutional Court; - Mr Jo Olivier, Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr. Brecht Steen, Auditor at the Council of State; - Mr. Dries Van Eeckhoutte, Auditor at the Council of State; - Mr. Geert Van Haegenborgh, a referendum at the Court of Cassation; - Mr. Luc Vermeire, first auditor at the Council of State; - Ms. Anja Wijnants, judge of the Foreign Litigation Council. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 September 2014, the nomination of the Council of State and the curriculum vitae of candidates was delivered to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 September 2014, the presentation of the Council of State and the curriculum vitae of the candidates were forwarded to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u77	By letter of 18 August 2014, the first President of the Council of State informed that the General Assembly of that Council, meeting at a public meeting on 10 June 2014, in accordance with Article 70 of the coordinated laws of the Council of State, has drawn up a list of three candidates for a vacant post of State council in the French-speaking framework, as a result of the resignation of Mr Robert Andersen, the appointment of Mr Yves Kreins as first President and the appointment of Mr Pierre Vandernoot as President of the Chamber. By letter of 18 August 2014, the first President of the Council of State informed the Chamber that, at its public hearing of 10 June 2014, the General Assembly of that Council had proceeded, in accordance with Article 70 of the Coordinated Laws on the Council of State, to the establishment of a list of three candidates for a vacant position of State Councillor in the French linguistic group, following the retirement of Mr Robert Andersen, the appointment of Mr Yves Kreins as first President and the appointment of Mr Pierre Vandernoot as President of the Chamber. It was proposed by the Council of State, however, without unanimity: - first candidate: Mr Marc Joassart, First Auditor at the Council of State; - second candidate: Mrs Elisabeth Willemart, auditor at the Council of State; - third candidate: Mr Raphaël Born, auditor at the Council of State. The Council of State, however, did not unanimously present: - first candidate: Mr Marc Joassart, first auditor of the Council of State; - Second candidate: Ms Elisabeth Willemart, Auditor of the Council of State; - third candidate: Mr Raphaël Born, auditor at the Council of State. Since the nomination is not unanimous, the Chamber of Representatives may, in accordance with Article 70 (1), eighth paragraph, of the laws of the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, either confirm the list proposed by the Council of State or propose another list of three names, which shall be expressly stated, within 30 days of receipt of the nomination. Since the presentation is not unanimous, the House of Representatives may, in accordance with Article 70, § 1, paragraph 8, of laws on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, within a period not exceeding 30 days from the date of receipt of the presentation, either confirm the list submitted by the Council of State or present another list of three names which is formally motivated. Article 70, § 1, 11th paragraph, of the same laws provides that the 30-day period referred to above shall be interrupted "during the parliamentary recess as determined by the Chamber and Senate." In Article 70, § 1, paragraph 11, of the same laws, it is stipulated that the above-mentioned thirty-day period shall be interrupted "in the course of the parliamentary holidays fixed by the House and the Senate". Article 70 (1) of the same law provides that a further period of 30 days shall begin on the day following the appointment of the Permanent Bureau of the Chamber. In Article 70(1), twelfth paragraph, of the same laws, it is stipulated that a new period of thirty days shall begin to run on the day following the installation of the final Bureau of the Chamber. Any nomination of a list by the Chamber shall be made on the basis of applications received by the Council of State. The possible submission of a list by the Chamber should be based on nominations received by the Council of State. The following applications were submitted: - Ms Nadia Bartolini, Provincial Official.............................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Raphaël Born, auditor at the Council of State; - Mr Frédéric Gosselin, attorney at the Brussels Bar; - Mr Marc Joassart, First Auditor at the Council of State; - Mr Jean Laurent, attorney at the Brussels Bar; - Mr Herman Valverde Burgos, lawyer at the Brussels Bar; - Mr Walter Vandenbosch, First Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Ms Wanda Vogel, First Auditor at the Council of State; - Mrs Elisabeth Willemart, auditor at the Council of State. The following applications were submitted: - Ms. Nadia Bartolini, provincial official - Director A5 in the province of Hainaut; - Mr Raphaël Born, auditor at the Council of State; - Mr. Frédéric Gosselin, lawyer at the Brussels Bar; - Mr. Marc Joassart, first auditor at the Council of State; - Mr Jean Laurent, lawyer at the Brussels Bar; - Mr Herman Valverde Burgos, lawyer at the Brussels Bar; - Mr Walter Vandenbosch, first auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Ms. Wanda Vogel, first auditor at the Council of State; - Mrs Elisabeth Willemart, auditor at the Council of State. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 September 2014, the nomination of the Council of State and the curriculum vitae of candidates was delivered to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 September 2014, the presentation of the Council of State and the curriculum vitae of the candidates were forwarded to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u78	I shall inform you of the names of the next chairmen of the standing committees. I should like to inform you of the names of the chairpersons of the Standing Committees. Social Affairs Commission Social Affairs Committee Vincent Van Quickenborne Commission for the Defence of the Land National Defence Commission Karolian Grosemans Commission for Business, Science Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Agriculture Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture Jean-Marc Delizée Commission for Finance and the Budget Finance and Budget Committee Eric Van Rompuy Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises Commission on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises Karine Lalieux Commission for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service Peter De Roover Commission for Justice Commission on Justice Philippe Goffin Commission responsible for Trade and Economic Law Problems Commission on Trade and Economic Law David Clarinval Commission for External Relations Committee on External Relations Dirk Van der Maelen Commission for the Revision of the Constitution and the Reform of the Institutions Commission for the Revision of the Constitution and the Reform of the Institutions Siegfried Bracke Commission for Health, the Environment and Social Renewal Commission on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society Muriel Gerkens
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u79	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u80	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Barbara Beware of the only article. (393/4) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Barbara Not to the single article. (393/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes No. 126 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Marco Van Hees cs. to the sole article. (393/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Marco Van Hees cs. to the single article. (393/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 6 Yes No. 108 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u81	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 123 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 131 Total The Court therefore accepts the proposal. (393/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. (393/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-23-54-plenair-ip013x.u82	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 6 November 2014. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 6 November 2014. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] No observation? [[No]] I wish you, as far as that applies, a pleasant holiday. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 6 November 2014 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 6 November 2014, at 2.15 p.m.
