ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fernandez Fernandez's 48th question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u2	Minister, as a reminder, United Nations peacekeepers have been permanently installed along the Israeli-Lebanese border since 1978. The mission was named UNIFIL. After the war between the two countries in 2006, the mandate of the peace force was considerably expanded. It is in this context that Belgian Defence has since made an important contribution in particular to demining through the BELUFIL detachment. While the UN Special Envoy for Syria has recently expressed concern about the stability of Lebanon, due to the ongoing conflict in Syria, the government agreement states that our country will withdraw this year from the operation in Lebanon. In the face of this unilateral decision, I would like to ask you the following questions. What do you think is an objective justification for this unilateral withdrawal of our Belgian military from Lebanon? How can the government claim that Belgium maintains its firm commitment to the United Nations when, at the same time, you decide unilaterally to withdraw from this UN mission when it is an essential geostrategic position and an argument of weight for our candidacy for various UN mandates? Have you already specified this decision with UNIFIL bodies? In concrete terms, how and according to what timetable would this withdrawal take place, particularly vis-à-vis other States participating in this United Nations operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u3	Madam President, Minister, the 15-year war in Lebanon left many unexploded mines behind. The Belgian army has been working for many years to manage the mines. However, the coalition agreement provides for our military presence to be stopped there. I have two specific questions in this connection. Firstly, why exactly is our country putting an end to the mission in Lebanon? Is the mine mine clearance planned in the Lebanon Mine Action Strategy, which means that by 2016, 80.5% of minefields that are not on the blue line would have been demined and 66 percent of minefields that are on the blue line, while this strategy requires 100 % of both zones to be demined by 2020? Are we ahead of schedule? Is the work done there? Secondly, is the end of this mission determined in consultation with the military authorities concerned and with the LMAC, the Landmine Action Resource Center, the coordinating body?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u4	Madam President, I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their questions. The Lebanon Mine Action Strategy was designed to comply with Lebanon's obligations as a result of its accession to the Convention on Cluster Munitions. The Lebanon Mine Action Strategy provides for the coordination of mining operations for all minefields in Lebanon. However, it is important to know that these would in principle be carried out by the geniuses of the Lebanese armed forces themselves and national and international non-governmental organisations. UNIFIL, of which our Belgian mine clearance detachment is part, has been responsible since 2010 only for demining accesses to the so-called blue points that are part of the Israeli-Lebanon demarcation line. UNIFIL's mission is therefore very clearly aligned. The redeployment of the BELUFIL detachment follows the decision of the federal government. Indeed, the government agreement states that "Belgium will withdraw this year from the operation in Lebanon". Since 2006, this mission has been successfully carried out and has enabled combat engineering units to gain additional experience in operational demining. At present, Mr De Vriendt, 99% of all blue points on which an agreement exists between Lebanon, Israel and UNIFIL have been demined. There are no indications that in the short or medium term there will still be substantial points for further demining, it is to be said in the context of the blue points. Therefore, the termination of the operational mission of the Belgian detachment was taken in coordination with UNIFIL, and not unilaterally. This redeployment is consistent with the Defence Staff's analysis. Indeed, this demining mission, whose international usefulness and visibility have been proven many times, is coming to an end. The sites assigned to Belgium have been cleared and Belgian troops on site face a lack of demining missions. On 15 October 2014, the Government's decision to redeploy the BELUFIL detachment was communicated to the military advisers to the United Nations Department of Peacekeeping Operations. The commanding force of Operation UNIFIL was also made aware of this decision. The operational tasks of the Belgian detachment ended definitively on 15 October 2014 when the last corridor of the blue point assigned to it was cleared. A first part of the personnel will return to Belgium and then the vehicles and equipment will be prepared for repatriation to Belgium under the direction of the competent United Nations service. The boarding of equipment in Beirut is planned for the end of December this year and depends on the availability of the United Nations chartered vessel.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but there are, of course, many mines still scattered on that territory. They are not so much on the blue points, on which there is an agreement for mine clearance, also with our country. I regret that our country is not taking any initiative to reach a new agreement on this issue. It is necessary, also from a humane point of view, to continue the demining, especially because our country has proven expertise in this area. It's one of our specialties. We are internationally renowned for this. We should continue and strengthen this task. So I absolutely regret the cessation of that operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u6	Mr Crusnière is not present and has not informed us and therefore his questions Nos 53 and 54 lapse. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 422 will be converted into a written question, as will Question No 42 by Mr Dallemagne. 59 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez. Mr Vanvelthoven is not here to put his question No. 75. Questions Nos 121 and 124 by Mr Dallemagne are also converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u7	Madam President, Minister, the coalition agreement gives Land defence a prominent role in our society. The government is asking for large investment budgets. The coalition agreement explicitly states that the army is a strategic insurance policy. The question is what Defense can and will do to protect its citizens from Ebola and the rapid expansion of Ebola in West Africa. It is logical that we should consider to what extent the available facilities are of use in the fight against the Ebola epidemic. The transport of an ebolapatient in Belgium takes place with an ambulance and the MUG of the Military Hospital Queen Astrid of Defence. For this purpose, national defence has equipped two ambulances type B. Procedures are also provided for the staff of the intervention teams. The best insurance against Ebola infection in Belgium is to address the problem at source, especially in West Africa. There is a need for financial funds, but certainly also for logistics equipment and qualified medical staff. There are other countries that are developing military resources and troops in West Africa to assist those countries and NGOs, in particular the US, France and Great Britain. The European Parliament has also called on the EU Member States. We were able to free up capacity fairly quickly in the fight against IS. Has the DOD investigated the opportunity and possibility of a military-humanitarian operation against Ebola in West Africa? Why has it so far proved impossible to launch such an operation independently or in cooperation with allies with medical and other components? Are capacity problems or political objections at the root of this? Is it true that the military hospital in Lower Over Heembeek could play a coordinating role in the event of biological accidents? Is the military hospital equipped with a special isolation unit? Is it true that in the past there was a problem with the air circulation that would not have been adapted and would spend on the rest of the hospital? Will you integrate the slope of a level 4 institution in Lower-Over-Heembeek into your thinking exercise on the opportunity and future of that hospital in the Belgian Defence Department? At present we do not have a level 4 setting. Is it true that there is a special equipment for the Embraers to transport infected persons if necessary? Is it true that NATO has a rather well-developed capacity and well-trained staff that can be deployed in serious bio-incidents? What are the options for a possible NATO effort?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u8	Madam President, Minister, the international community is facing the most deadly and significant Ebola epidemic to date, an epidemic that mainly affects West Africa, where more than 4,000 people have already died as a result of this virus. However, the US ambassador to the UN estimated on Thursday 30 October that he had noted the "first tangible signs" that Ebola could be defeated. It is in this context that National Defence finally presented a concrete contribution in this international struggle to meet the dire logistical needs of the NGOs and the affected states through the donation of 15 Unimog. I would therefore like, Mr Minister, to be able to take stock of the contribution of Belgian Defence in the fight against this epidemic, which affects a very important region, particularly in the light of our country's diplomatic relations. What is the cross-cutting vision (Foreign Affairs, Cooperation, Public Health, National Defence, etc.) to address this epidemic and to support affected countries, local NGOs and the international community? Why does National Defence seem to have been so slow in meeting the critical logistical needs of local NGOs such as MSF Belgium? In addition, Minister De Croo, in a parliamentary response, referred to the opportunity to send a B-FAST mission to Guinea. This would include the installation of a mobile laboratory that can analyze blood samples. How does National Defence position itself within this framework? Are additional Defence initiatives being considered in the long term to make a logistical contribution to the eradication of this epidemic? At military level, has European coordination been put in place? In your opinion, what lessons can the EEAS and the EDA learn from this crisis and the slow response that has been provided, particularly in terms of logistics?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u9	Mr Minister, my question is a little more specific than that of my two previous colleagues. I confine myself to the concern of the eighty soldiers currently stationed in Mali in the framework of the European Union Training Mission. Mali is a neighbouring country of Guinea, where Ebola is very violent. The Dutch are also stationed there. The Dutch military authorities have taken the necessary measures for their soldiers on the ground. With my question I want to know whether we have taken or are able to take similar measures. Minister, I have five questions. Firstly, what precautions do the Belgian troops take in terms of hygiene, food, human contacts and entering medical institutions? Secondly, what protection measures are being taken if military personnel come into contact or could come into contact with the Ebola virus? Thirdly, could a possible outbreak of the virus endanger the operations there? Fourthly, could any outbreak affect the further presence in Mali? Fifthly, how will the participating military and their families be informed about precautionary and protective measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that last week I appeared on the subject of Ebola and our international contribution to a Joint Committee on Health, Foreign Affairs and Defence and that I have already answered all the questions there, except for Mr Penris' questions. The questions have now been put; the questioners may have been prevented at the time when the statements were made in that committee. To play the game fair, I will answer the questions now, but I would urge you to try to reduce the workload. Everyone's busy, including you. The workload can be reduced to the extent that questions only have to be answered once. The World Health Organization has entrusted the coordination of the fight against Ebola in West Africa to a number of lead nations, namely the United States for Liberia, the United Kingdom for Sierra Leone and France for Guinea. Belgium is not a lead nation, but puts its efforts into a global plan, as we do for all international interventions. Defence is in contact with France, which determines the needs on the ground. This method allows us to coordinate efforts, with maximum efficiency. As mentioned above, France had detected the need for medium-sized all-terrain vehicles type Unimog for medical transport. We have looked at this question, addressed it and provided a fleet of 15 vehicles, worth around EUR 300 000, intended for civil protection in Guinea. Defence has loaded these vehicles on board the Dutch Navy vessel Karel Doorman, which left on 6 November and has since arrived in Guinea. Mr De Vriendt, several NATO countries have lab capabilities in the event of bio-incidents. If requested, this capacity will be made available to the lead nations by NATO countries. France has asked Belgium such a question for a mobile lab. The lab, jointly funded by Defence and the UCL, was made available to B-FAST. As you know, this mechanism falls within the competence of the Federal State Department of Foreign Affairs. In the past, Defense has always contributed to the activation of B-FAST when needed, with both equipment and personnel. In addition to the hasty donation of equipment, the possibility of sending a mobile laboratory in support of a medical infrastructure deployed in Guinea is being explored. This laboratory has the ability to identify pathogens. Released at the end of October 2014, the French plan foresees the deployment in the hinterland of Ebola treatment centres whose opening to patients spans several months. With the deployment studied by B-FAST in the laboratory B-LiFE (Biological Light Fieldable Laboratory for Emergencies) in which Defence personnel are employed, Belgium is part of the timing of the French global plan. Mr Pirlot, the Defence has never received any specific questions from MSF. Moreover, Belgium wishes to contribute to the overall plan to combat the Ebola epidemic in West Africa. The response to the pressing needs of NGOs is coordinated at EU level by the Emergency Response Coordination Centre (ERCC) under DG ECHO (European Commission DG Humanitarian Aid and Civil Protection) Mr De Vriendt, with regard to the military hospital in Lower Over-Heembeek, this can only play a role in a framework of assistance if it is provided in the necessary framework and the additional funding. Between 2002 and 2006, there was an isolation unit in the military hospital equipped with a local insulator and equipped with adequate air circulation. However, the department was closed at the time, remember who was Minister at the time, which means that the hospital no longer has a department suitable for the fight against Ebola. Rebooting the former department involves purchasing all necessary medical equipment and would involve several months of investment if not years. The question of whether this is appropriate should be seen in the light of the study on the future capabilities referred to in the coalition agreement. This thorough thinking exercise naturally starts from a wide range of options. The start of this exercise will be reflected in my strategic plan, as already announced. We're talking level four. If we want this again, we're talking about study and investment, and we'll be a year before we get there. You are asking me to take part in this. I want to think about everything, but three hospitals have been set up today to meet these needs. They also consider how further steps can be taken. I'd like to think along with this, but we need to see where this belongs. That is the question we have to ask ourselves over and over again. Mr De Vriendt, as regards your question about the Embraer, there are isolators that can be placed on aircraft. These must, of course, meet the requirements of flight safety. The certification process is very time-consuming and complex. A number of countries, as well as a number of companies, have successfully completed this process of adapting their appliances. They choose, of course, to adjust only devices with a wide range so that they do not have to make stops with infected patients. An Embraer has a relatively small range and is not used for this purpose. That's why Defense is investigating cooperation with other NATO countries for such air transport. It is also true that, as I stated in committee last week, we have a number of international agreements which allow us, if necessary, to rely on external capacity. Mr Penris, with regard to the protection measures taken by the Belgian military in the framework of the EUTM in Mali, a matrix was drawn up with a clear scale of the measures to be taken according to the risk involved. This matrix includes awareness and information sessions, restrictions on movements and contacts outside the camp, and possible quarantine of the entire camp. The Belgian detachment receives very regular information regarding the distribution of Ebola from the European EUTM headquarters and the operational centre of Defence so that appropriate measures can be taken. The Belgian military are informed in different ways about the precautionary and protective measures. Before leaving, they shall, inter alia, receive a comprehensive presentation of the health risks in the destination zone and of the preventive measures they may take for themselves and collectively. On-the-spot awareness and information sessions are organised, as well as training sessions in the light of the measures to be taken. The collective hygiene and food safety on site is a responsibility of the Hygiene and Prevention cell of the German medical element providing support under EUTM in Mali. We are, of course, working with that. Our Belgian military also do not and will not use local medical institutions. We've taken our precautions. My cabinet is kept constantly informed of any problems on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u11	Mr Minister, I would like to comment on one specific point, namely Lower-Over-Heembeek. Frankly, I think specialization and excellence can ensure the future of Lower Over Heembeek. There is now a debate on possible privatisation. However, I believe that defence should not reject expertise but strengthen it. Within your strategic exercise, you should list where our expertise and specialisation lie. Just now we were talking about mine clearance, now we are talking about Lower Over Heembeek. It may be interesting for the Defense Department to leave these areas of expertise and to anchor and strengthen them. Further steps can then be taken. Privatisation or the rejection of Lower Over Heembeek will also pose problems for foreign operations, if we will still do so. Neder-Over-Heembeek can play an important role in the area of burn care and the like, not only here but also abroad. After privatisation, all this will be much less evident.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u12	I have some additional information that I gave in committee last week. Mr De Vriendt, you are talking about specializations. Virology is not a specialty of the Defense Department. We have one person who, if necessary, can act in the domain of viruses and bacteria. One doctor specializes in this, and one emergency physician has trained himself in his spare time to participate in humanitarian actions, such as now in West Africa. By the way, he went there on his own on leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u13	I have opened the debate to Lower Over Heembeek in general. In my opinion, burn care certainly belongs to our expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u14	It's not about burns, it's about...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u15	Yes. I repeat that I have opened up the debate somewhat in response to the reports on possible privatisation. I'll come back to my basics: Defense must start from its expertise and specializations. Neder-Over-Heembeek as an institution is part of this. You'd better take that with you in your strategic thinking exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which certainly reassures me. However, the fact that I have to ask that question means that the military or people concerned are less reassured. Have you and your staff heard any signs of concern or has the defence staff received any signals about this? It seems that there is still room for correction in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u17	Mr Penris, at least I did not raise this as a problem. It's possible that people are worried. Normally, the DOD has its resources to keep military families informed in operations, but it is true that they do not communicate widely about it. I'll write that down as a point of interest. We may be able to communicate more widely about such precautions. For people in foreign missions, we organize family days within the Defense Department on a regular basis, as they are called, where that kind of information is provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van der Maelen's 141 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u19	Minister, the coalition agreement states that 'We continue to work for international initiatives aimed at banning or at at least improving the control of weapons systems with an arbitrary and/or excessive impact on citizens'. Nuclear weapons are, of course, covered by that classification. A conference on the humanitarian impact of nuclear weapons will take place in Vienna from 8 to 9 December. That conference is already ready for its third edition and should be able to take a fundamental step forward in the global ban on nuclear weapons. As we all know, the Belgian Government has signed the Non-Proliferation Treaty. I have a number of questions in that connection. Who will represent our country at the Vienna conference? What position will our country take there? How will you ensure that we play a constructive role in this dynamic? Has our country signed the New Zealand Joint Statement on the Humanitarian Consequences of Nuclear Weapons? If that is not the case yet, will our country do so? What concrete steps will this government take to remove nuclear weapons from the European Union? Will our country within NATO defend the right of individual NATO Member States to engage in bilateral consultations with the US on the removal of nuclear weapons from their territory, something Greece and Canada have done before? Will our country within NATO argue in favour of modernising or abolishing secrecy regarding the deployment of nuclear weapons? That is a debate that concerns the Netherlands quite assertively. Will our country bring about the reduction and removal of nuclear weapons within the alliance, as the Netherlands is trying to do? Do you think it is compatible, on the one hand, to sign the Non-Proliferation Treaty and, on the other hand, to maintain the presence of nuclear weapons on European soil and NATO's Strategic Concept? Do you think it is compatible to sign the Non-Proliferation Treaty and, on the other hand, to replace nuclear weapons on European soil with new, more effective systems?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u20	Mr De Vriendt, for the answers to your first four questions, I would like to refer you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs who is responsible for this matter. With regard to the removal of nuclear weapons from the European Union, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are no nuclear weapons included in the European Union's common foreign and security policy. Belgium has agreed to NATO's Strategic Concept, whereby deterrents are based on conventional and nuclear capacities and where charges and risk charges are fairly distributed among as many Member States as possible. As a reliable ally of NATO, Belgium supports the alliance's policy, attaches great importance to solidarity with its allies and will neither take unilateral initiatives nor support them. Moreover, changes to NATO's nuclear attitude are taken by consensus among the Member States. However, our country is prepared to support initiatives in the context of non-proliferation and in consultation with NATO partners that create the right conditions for further reduction of nuclear weapons. With regard to the alliance's external communication policy, proposals are currently being discussed in NATO. Our country is actively participating in and supporting these discussions. Within NATO, nuclear cooperation treaties were already in force when the Non-Proliferation Treaty was negotiated and entered into force. This specific situation was accepted by the signatory countries and was not questioned at the review conferences. The maintenance and extension of the lifetime of the existing US nuclear weapons is a strictly national US responsibility and aims to improve the protection and security of these weapons against the threats of the 21st century, so that they can continue to contribute effectively to the distress policy of the United States, its allies and partners. So this is not about developing new nuclear weapons. Belgium shares with a large number of countries the vision of a world without nuclear weapons and believes that nuclear disarmament can only be achieved at the end of a negotiation process and certainly not at the beginning. This vision is long-term and can only be achieved if all nuclear powers commit themselves to it by taking concrete, irreversible and verifiable steps and if the Non-Proliferation Treaty becomes universal and fully respected. Furthermore, our country considers any measure which, in close consultation with the other NATO partners, increases confidence and transparency as a source of stability, and sees these initiatives as a possible step towards a further global reduction in the number of nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u21	Minister, this is a rather disappointing answer. Firstly, I did not hear you argue that Belgium should assertively take the lead in nuclear disarmament. I didn't hear you say that today. I think that is a retrograde step, especially if Belgium wants to apply a certain ethics and a certain degree of progressiveness in foreign policy and defence policy. Secondly, you are engaging in the status quo. Belgium will not take unilateral action. Belgium is going to have a discussion, I hope? This does not appear to be the case either. Other countries are doing much more. Greece and Canada have, by the way, successfully had bilateral talks with the US on the removal of nuclear weapons from their territory. The Netherlands is also very active. You seem to think the Benelux is a nice organisation, but when it comes to nuclear disarmament, you distance yourself from the Dutch attitude in this area. Thirdly and finally, the replacement of the present nuclear weapons with newer, more effective systems is not just an American competence. This was discussed at meetings where Belgian representatives were also present. In other words, Belgium has approved this at least implicitly. This means that Belgium does indeed have a voice in the debate on the replacement of nuclear weapons on its territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u22	Madam President, Minister, it is a very short question for a change. Is the government prepared to declare Article 167 of the Constitution to be subject to revision at the end of the term of office? What is your position on a possible revision of Article 167 so that Parliament can take the decision on foreign military operations in our country? You know that several other Member States of the European Union are far beyond Belgium in this respect. Have agreements been reached between government partners on this matter? What's your sentiment?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u23	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt, a revision of the Constitution is not on the agenda. After all, that would mean dissolution. Invoking a constitutional change involves the dissolution of the Chambers, which we will not do today. In reply to your second question, I would point out that the coalition agreement does not mention any commitment to make Article 167 of the Constitution subject to revision.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u24	Madam President, Minister, the first point in your reply is, of course, very unfortunate. [[Hilarity.]] After all, it would be a good reason for the fall of the government. In all seriousness, however, I must point out that you are going to deal more with the matter in the press and with the possible revision of Rule 167 than what you are replying to here in committee today. I would like to know your assessment of the substance of more decision-making rights for Parliament, prior to foreign military operations. What is your opinion or position on this matter? That was actually my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u25	Mr De Vriendt, I do not think my personal opinion matters. The government agreement is very specific and explicitly states that the decision on participation in foreign operations will be made in accordance with the Constitution. This government will therefore act in accordance with the Constitution. However, you also know that, last Friday, I declared before the Council of Ministers that I would come to Parliament to extend the mission in Iraq, but I failed to do so. However, the day after that, I came to make that decision openly. It is a fact that the government takes decisions in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u26	Would you agree, Minister, if, with a view to future foreign military operations, Parliament were to make a habit of adopting a resolution every time before the military operation was effectively launched? This practice is, of course, not provided for in the Constitution, but it may well be based on a good way of parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u27	This is kind of interesting. We should have this discussion at some point. Mr De Vriendt, I am not going to comment on it now. The coalition agreement is very clear. Personally, I think that we should have the broadest possible support for participating in operations. However, I am also in favour of a smooth decision-making process and I wish to make the right decisions. In fact, you have seen the way in which your own group did not finally agree, despite the way in which that resolution was drawn up, with everything that was or was not in it. So I don't know if that's always the best way. However, I believe that there should be as much participation or right of view as possible, or whatever you want to call it. There must be transparency about the possible interventions that we are considering. However, such decisions sometimes involve factors that are not always fully disclosed for security reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u28	Madam President, Minister, during the debate in plenary, you reiterated what is stated in the coalition agreement, in particular that the fighters must be replaced. Together with the other purchases such as the transport planes already ordered, the frigates, the mine sweepers, armored jeeps, drones and so on, this is an invoice that can easily reach 10 billion euros. Firstly, how will the government pay for these ambitions now that we know the savings? Secondly, what are the possible alternative ways of financing the large investment programmes referred to in the government agreement? Thirdly, when do you expect the first payments to be made for the large investment programmes? On what time? What amounts do you estimate will be needed? Fourthly, what budgetary path does the government propose on the defence budget for the next ten years? We know the NATO standard of 2% of GDP. What's the government's position on that? Fifth, will Belgium respect the NATO standard to spend 20% of the budget on materials and investments in materials? Sixthly, how does the government intend to involve Parliament in decisions on large purchase files, independently of the army procurement committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u29	Mrs Jadin is not here and her question No is therefore deleted. 280. Mr Top, your question on pooling and sharing was added.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u30	Madam President, Minister, this question is related to Mr De Vriendt's question. We read in the coalition agreement that the defence budget has made a major effort to improve public finances over the past few years. Following the policy statement, that has already been changed, and it seems that it should also be saved by the Defense Department. However, the agreement shows that it is not only intended to replace F-16. It is also intended to replace or purchase frigates, mine hunters and other weapon systems. I therefore have the following questions. Firstly, where will the government get the money to finance those ambitions? What are the budgetary consequences of these ambitions? What departments will have to do with less once the government agreement is implemented? What can I understand under the alternative ways of financing large investment programmes referred to in the government agreement? Secondly, when are we planning to buy those fighter planes? From when do they have to be paid off or paid off? At what time will this happen? Thirdly, when will the purchases already ordered, for example of frigates and mine sweepers, be paid for exactly and at what time? Fourthly, how will the government and the Minister involve Parliament in these purchase files? Fifthly, the coalition agreement makes it clear that NATO is the government's favourite partner. Will the Minister therefore respect the NATO standard and spend 20% of the defence budget on investments in military equipment? I have some additional questions on pooling and sharing. The government agreement stipulates that the government will make efforts to strengthen international cooperation through increased pooling and sharing and more common material acquisition programmes. Firstly, on the one hand, you want to invest in new fighter aircraft and other expensive equipment, on the other hand, the term pooling and sharing is used several times in the coalition agreement. Isn't that a contradiction? Secondly, for which purchases of material are you considering pooling and sharing and with which countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 421 lapses as he is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the defence aspect of the coalition agreement is ambitious. That's a good thing for National Defense, because it was necessary. However, the budget agreement requires great efforts and I understand that many people are closely following the defence dossier. I am thinking primarily of the women and men who work there and who see a contradiction in the spirit of the coalition agreement and what was decided at budgetary level. That this raises concerns for the staff and for our international partners, I have every sympathy and empathy, but I would add immediately that doom is not spent on me. I am not letting my shoulders down; that would not help us to move forward. Of course, it cannot be said that in the past, defence has contributed a great deal to the restructuring of public finances and that this is now the case again. You know, however, that the economic and budgetary context in which this country finds itself is such that, given the particularly difficult process of restructuring that we have to undertake in the coming years, it would be impossible to provide for an exception for defence. That's how the government saw it. However, I believe that the coalition agreement and certain budgetary decisions offer interesting prospects, that is what I am talking about. On the basis of the many questions and reactions in the media, no one has missed the passage in the coalition agreement which states that the military must be given the means again to carry out the tasks properly. This must not be done tomorrow, but it must be done during this legislature. Nor should it be based on the current level of ambition, but on the new strategic vision of the core tasks of the Armed Forces and the necessary capabilities. Moreover, the coalition agreement makes it very clear that the necessary decisions on the overall budgetary lines can only be taken within the contours of a long-term strategic vision. The government has given me six months to work out that vision. You will understand that at this stage I will not comment on the concrete consequences for staff, infrastructure, investment programmes, their cost and timing. However, I know that it is now important for this government to go down the drain, to give the economy as much oxygen as possible and to re-establish economic growth, because that is the best guarantee for the future, not only to cover the costs of ageing but also to give the necessary investment resources back to Defence. To the question of where resources should come from, I answer that it will have to be in the first place a new growth. However, there is more. The government agreement provides for the medium- and long-term instrument to guarantee the necessary investments and, above all, their budgetary coverage. This is a military programme law, as is the case in some other countries, covering a period of ten years. For our country, it is a political novelty and above all an opportunity to plan long-term military re-equipment, within a stable fiscal framework. Finally, thanks to this tool, we will be able to break the vicious circle that led to budgetary assumptions being only conclave. The importance of this methodical measure cannot be underestimated and fully meets a strong need for budgetary stability. Without making any progress in terms of terms, the budget capacity of the armed forces will in the future consist of an envelope for current expenditure and an envelope for re-equipment of major weapons systems. Today, we do not know the quantitative decisions that concern the first envelope. What is not in the government agreement, but one of the budget notifications, is the decision to give Defence the opportunity to use some of the provisions. One gives the defense the opportunity to claim part of the commission. But the short term is not easy and our European partners, as well as our Atlantic allies, are looking at us and asking questions. It will therefore be necessary to explain and reassure. I think the government agreement, as I have just explained, contains some reassuring elements, but it is more about the medium and the long term. I am convinced that the standard of at least 20% of investment expenditure is, in the long run, a fully realistic objective. In my opinion, this is also the most important standard. On the other hand, I must admit that the standard of at least 2% of gross domestic product for defence spending will be more difficult to achieve. In 2015, Belgium will be around the 1% of GDP threshold, but the Belgian contribution should not be assessed solely on these quantitative data such as the budget. One must always be careful when it comes to figures. The famous 2% of NATO also includes expenditure on military pensions. That way we still get above 1%. It's a fact that the percentage's dropping. Everyone agrees on that. Compared to the 2 % we still reach the 1 % limit. Despite its limited resources, what Defence is doing on the ground is remarkable and its professionalism and efficiency are appreciated by all our partners. Despite the difficult past and present situation, Belgium fully assumes its commitment and is a reliable ally. Belgian participation in Afghanistan, Libya and, more recently, Iraq is proof of this. As far as pooling and sharing is concerned, I cannot yet give a concrete answer to your questions as to which purchases and with which countries the principle is being applied, as long as strategic choices have not been made as to the capacity to be maintained and, if necessary, new ones. Defence will continue its efforts to strengthen international cooperation through common equipment acquisition programmes such as we are doing today and through the concept of pooling and sharing, as we have already done with the purchase of the A400M aircraft, together with Luxembourg. They are deployed on a common basis. Moreover, all major purchase files will be dealt with in the Army Procurement Committee, as was the case in the previous legislature. I can reassure you on that point, Mr De Vriendt. Mr Top, that will continue to be the way in which Parliament is involved in the major investment programmes. Since investments are included in a military programme law, Parliament will thus be able to play its full role in the parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u33	If you say that it is realistic to spend 20% of the defence budget on investments in equipment in the long term, do you mean in your reign?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u34	We're talking about a strategic plan in ten years. You know the current relationships within the defence budget and know that we have a wage cost of more than 70%. This means that there is no 30% left for investment and operations/training. It will be difficult to achieve the goals for the next four years. If we want to be operational and provide the help to the nation as we define it, we need to develop a plan over a period of ten years that should lead to a healthier relationship between investment on the overall budget. I do not know whether that should be the NATO relationship.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u35	You often talk about 10 years or 15 years, so the longer term.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u36	The programme law is in 10 years, the strategic plan as a whole in 15 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u37	What are your views on the call made here and there in the press for a longer-term pact, with the involvement of the current opposition parties, precisely to create more certainty for the next 10 or 15 years? Are you prepared to initiate that exercise, as a minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u38	I am certainly prepared to listen to the views of the opposition. The fact is that bringing such a procedure to Parliament takes quite some time, while the government agreement stipulates that I will come up with a strategic plan within the six months. I want to get that date. The strategic plan will be based on a vision, but I do not want to debate a year in Parliament before the plan can come. I think we need action in the short term. When I hear what is being said now, including by people in the Defense Department who are worried about, among other things, their barracks, I fear that the longer I have to delay my answers, the more uncertainty there will be and the more difficult a decent debate will become. However, if the committee decides to organise hearings and develop a vision at parliamentary level, who am I to stop that, Mr De Vriendt?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u39	Mr Minister, like you, I do not question the professionalism of the army, and probably very few of my fellow Members here today do. But I would like to talk about the question you have just answered. If you want to develop a strategic vision of the army's future in the long term, Parliament must certainly be involved, including the opposition. So I can only support Mr De Vriendt's question. It may take a little longer, as you mentioned earlier. We are, however, sure, if necessary, that the vision will be very broad, which will run in the long term. We are, of course, waiting for the results of your six-month vision, which you gave earlier. Nevertheless, I am holding my heart because you are already saying that the resources will have to be found in the long term and in the light of economic growth. To this day, we have no idea. Planning and almost recording expenditure now, without any certainty about any economic growth, is dangerous. In this way, you are placing a great mortgage on our future spending. The next item is the stable financial situation. That's the same thing. We will first have to look for a stable financial situation both for the defence sector and for the whole country before we consider making very large expenditures in order to avoid burdening the future generation and the future governments with a deficit.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u40	Mr De Vriendt, your questions are very interesting, but there are other Members waiting.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u41	Madam President, if I may, I would like to reply to the last point from the Minister's reply. I would also like to address you. Minister, with your answer, in which you are calling for a vision of a slightly longer term with Parliament than until 2019, you seem to indicate that it is okay for you that Parliament should make a reflection exercise on the subject, while in the meantime you will place its own emphasis in your own strategic plan. That, of course, involves the risk of a parallel track. I would like to warn that we do not end up on a parallel track, namely Parliament's long-term reflection alongside your thinking within the government. After all, both exercises must go hand in hand. I am also addressing you, Madam President. Why shouldn't we discuss this here? If all political groups find it useful to think beyond the limits of majority and opposition, then I think that we can ask the government to anchor this in government policy and in budgetary policy. I believe that defence needs this, because if we do not do so and if other parties come into power in five years' time, for example those who attach more importance to strengthening and maintaining the barracks and staff, that would once again mean a turn in the vision, in policy and in the budgets. We must avoid that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u42	I think that is an interesting proposal, Mr De Vriendt. We'll think about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u43	Madam President, Minister, this question deals with an ancillary or collateral aspect, as is said in military terms, of the war against the Islamic State and our country's participation in the coalition, namely the protection of cultural heritage and the fight against organized trafficking in works of art in Iraq and Syria. The Islamists have so far destroyed Christian churches, Assyrian palaces, Shi'a mosques, and are struggling with plastic representations (paintings, statues, etc.).). In July, in Mosul, it was the grave of the prophet Jonah that had been dynamited and the destruction of the religious and artistic heritage in Iraq and Syria is no longer recorded. According to an article published in the newspaper Le Monde on October 25, it seems that some 4,000 sites are in the hands of these destructive "icoloblasts". Indeed, the Islamic State is looting Christian and other cult property. According to a conference of experts and diplomats, organized by UNESCO on 29 September 2014, the Iraqi artistic heritage must be considered to be in real danger. Nor is this plunder without consequences – these iconoclasts being not only destroyers of any image but also traffickers – on the military aspect of operations, since the Islamic State is partly financed through the smuggling of cultural and artistic treasures. According to the director of the Baghdad Museum, there are international mafias that analyze the remains on site and inform the Islamic State of possible sales. It would be totally excavations that would be organized for that purpose. According to Ms. Bokova, Director General of UNESCO, the military forces staffs involved in the coalition were reportedly informed of these elements, as well as of the sites to be protected. Minister, can you confirm that the Belgian forces have received such information? Can you explain further what is being done at the coalition level to protect the religious, cultural and artistic heritage of Iraq and Syria from carnage, but also to stop this source of financing Islamic terrorism?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u44	Madam President, Mr Miller, the Belgian forces involved in the fight against the Islamic State did not receive directly the information you mentioned. However, they have access to intelligence elements in the context of the missions entrusted to them. In addition, cultural property is subject to a specific protection regime within the framework of the law of armed conflict. In addition, the mission is also subject to specific rules of engagement in order to avoid collateral damage and civilian casualties. I can therefore reassure you that deployed personnel are trained and educated in the application of these rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am particularly pleased that you have confirmed that the on-site staff is trained and attentive to this aspect of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u46	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fernandez Fernandez' 360 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u47	Madam President, I wanted to thank my two colleagues, Messrs. Penris and Top, who agreed that I could group my questions together. Minister, under the previous legislature, Defence Minister Pieter De Crem intended to launch a 170 million euro public contract to renovate the Melsbroek military base to allow it to accommodate the new A400M transport aircraft, which must replace the aging Hercules C-130. This project was then blocked, particularly in view of the geographical, logistical and technical opportunity of Melsbroek's choice for these colossal investments in the absence of sufficient objective arguments on the choice of this location. In this context, I would like to ask you the following questions. What is your government's position on this issue and on what timetable? Will new studies be required on the different possible locations and their logistical impact in terms of costs? Moreover, given the magnitude of this potential investment, what about the maintenance of other air bases in our territory? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u48	Mr Pirlot, the Council of Ministers of 25 April last addressed the issue of the authorization to be granted to the Defence in order to launch the public procurement 14IP005 relating to the Melsbroek military airport and relating to infrastructure work for the integration of A400M military transport aircraft. The study and the execution were postponed. In accordance with the 9 October government agreement, over the next six months, I will propose to the government a long-term strategic vision in which the infrastructure component will be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u49	Madam President, I have no reply. We will have the opportunity to come back to this issue as part of the strategic plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u50	Madam Chair, Minister, in the course of 2013, Minister Pieter De Crem relaunched the Historical Defence Pole (HDP) for which he had not renewed the members' terms of office. The HDP had thus become an empty shell despite the establishment of an advisory board. However, more than a year after its establishment, this advisory board seems never to have met and this HDP seems far from any control and clear missions. Minister, do you know why the HDP board was never convened? What control is exercised over the latter and its members? Under what procedures are they designated, particularly from a linguistic point of view? What are the current tasks of this HDP and its advice? What is the overall picture after more than a year of the HDP? How has the participation of members of the HDP team been valued for the benefit of Defence? How much is the cost of the existence and activity of this HDP? In general, what is your vision of HDP? What actions do you intend to take towards him?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u51	Mr. Pirlot, my predecessor has revived the Historical Defence Pole (PHD) to, among other things, allow the structures set up at the federal and defence levels to commemorate the centenary of the First World War, to have an advisory council but above all, historical expertise in this field. Given this workload, the HDP Board has not yet met. The aim is to meet in early 2015. In accordance with the legal prescriptions, this council has, in addition to its chairman and two members of the Defence Staff, two members per historical or museum institute with a connection with the Defence, who are appointed taking into account the linguistic regime of the members, i.e. one Dutch-speaking and one French-speaking member per institute. The tasks of the HDP are defined in Article 3 of the Act of 14 June 2006 establishing an advisory council called the Historical Defence Pole, which provides advice to the Minister of Defence on the preservation, conservation and enhancement of the historical heritage of Defence. The cost of HDP is minimal. It is limited to personnel costs. As stated in the government agreement, along with its role in commemorations, Defence has a long tradition with respect to its historical heritage, among other things, through the HDP. The government wants to continue this tradition, which I will do within the limits of the means available.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u52	Ms. Chair, Minister, under the previous legislature, there have been important debates around the National Defence Historical Pole, in which the MRA plays a key role. According to information relayed by the CGSP Defense, the will of the Defence would be to separate itself from the military personnel within it, raising fears of a willingness for the Department to disengage from this museum and transfer its guardianship to Belspo. It was in this tense social context that an emergency CWB was demanded by the unions and held. We can come back to the future of the ARM in the context of the budget debate and your general policy note, but I would like to ask you these few questions, Minister. What is the state of the social situation and well-being at work within the MRA? What were the conclusions of the emergency CWB held last week? What are you planning to take as a matter of urgency – the deadline had been set by the ETCS FPS by the end of December 2013 – as initiatives to bring the MRA into line with the Act of 4 August 1996 on the welfare of workers and the Royal Decree of 17 May 2007 on the prevention of psychosocial burden? Finally, is there a willingness to separate from military personnel within the MRA? If so, why? On what legal basis would this "demilitarisation" be organised and with what consultation of the social partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u53	Ms. Chair, Mr. Pirlot, at the request of the General Public Services Centre (CGSP), an extraordinary meeting of the Core Consultation Committee (CBC) was held on October 16, 2014. There was only one item on the agenda: the psychosocial burden within the Royal Museum of Army and Military History (MRA). The reasoned opinion at the end of this extraordinary meeting states that "the MRA shall make every effort to regularise the situation with regard to the prevention of psychosocial burden at work as soon as possible". To this end, an action plan was proposed at the CWB. This plan is based on the SPF method Employment, Labour and Social Concertation. All trade union representatives accepted this method of work. The point was therefore closed by the CWB and it seems to me that it was the subject of an agreement. Finally, to answer your last question, Mr. Pirlot, you should know that the MRA has no intention of separating itself from military personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u54	Minister, thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u55	Minister, this is a long-standing issue in military circles. Among other things, it has been presented several times by the ACMP/CGPM trade union and is about whether or not to wear bourgeois signs of labor on military uniforms. At a meeting of the High Consultative Committee held on 17 September last, it was announced on behalf of the Chief of Defence that the military government would not allow these medals to be admitted to military uniforms. The motivation was that these honour signs were not strictly military in nature, of which the record was noted. However, the Defence Department encourages the staff to stand for the award of these honour signs. These honour signs can be earned on the basis of knowledge, enthusiasm and creativity in the exercise of the profession, in this case the military, and are intrinsically related to it. I can tell you, moreover, coming from port workers' circles, that the sign of honour of work there is seen as a valuable recognition. It is carried with pride, especially by retired port workers. Only during a ceremony with a military character can they be worn on the uniform for a moment. For the rest, these honour signs paid by the staff member himself may never be spelled out. It goes without saying that in this way the whole meaningful meaning of these signs disappears. I repeat that, although I am not a medalist myself, I find the sign of work very valuable and would like to wear it myself, should His Majesty allow me to do so, quod non; I am not under any illusions about that and I do not want to cherish these illusions either. This valuable sign of honor may be worn by soldiers who deserve it, I think. The debate is getting bogged down and sterile. On the one hand, the army leadership says that it cannot do so, on the other hand, the soldiers concerned ask that it should be allowed to do so. I therefore feel obliged to address you as Minister. I have four questions on the subject. Firstly, do you recognize the usefulness and value of obtaining honorary signs of labor by meritorious soldiers? Secondly, do you agree that the content of these honour signs is perfectly in line with the professional commitment of our military? Thirdly, do you find it valuable that the DOD urges its personnel to obtain these honorary signs? Fourthly, have you already taken a decision to allow the wearing of the hallmarks of work at times when the other military signs may or must be worn?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u56	Mr Penris, it is nice to hear you raise such an important matter in Parliament. I must tell you that the value and usefulness of the signs of work are certainly not denied by the Defense Department. Let us be very clear about that. It should be noted, however, that Defence itself has several honorable awards in order to recognise the merits of military personnel, albeit the citizen, but the military service. I can tell you that with the documents I have signed so far, there has been a whole pack of honour signs of this kind. Moreover, there are conceptually large differences between national orders and military honour signs and, on the other hand, the hallmarks of labour. It is true that in order to obtain it, the individual can take the initiative himself without a nomination being made by the authorities concerned. For the military, this means that no advice should be given by the hierarchical military chiefs. This was proposed by the military hierarchy to allow the wearing of that specific mark of honour on the uniform only during the ceremonies directly related to the signs of work and not in other circumstances. In any case, I would like to thank you for informing me of this. I have also taken note of the proposal of the hierarchical superiors and I will look into it further.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u57	Madam President, Minister, in the coalition agreement we read that action against traffic offences will extend the powers of the military police. It is added immediately that this cannot have the effect of involving the military police to replace the regular police forces. I have the following question: if it is not a task carried out by the police, what exactly are the additional powers that are involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u58	Mr Top, I would like to congratulate you on your thorough review of the coalition agreement. There's no way the military police would just replace the police. There are a number of specific cases where it might be interesting if they had a little more powers. I will give you the example of the military police to Parliament and Rue de la Loi 16. The military police have no authority to establish that someone is parked in front of the building. This is a concrete example. However, I can recall a number of examples where it should be possible for the military police to banish. I hope that is an adequate answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u59	Mr Minister, I am somewhat reassured by the fact that the further development of this measure will undoubtedly show that it will be limited to those specific tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u60	Their competence will always remain specific.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u61	Minister, we read in the coalition agreement that there will be a thorough restructuring of the Medical component. You mention that in this context the future and the need for the Military Hospital will be investigated. Today, military personnel can still go to the Military Hospital for free medical care, such as prehospital emergency medicine and emergency medicine, acute and chronic treatment and rehabilitation of severe burn wounds, surgical treatment and rehabilitation of locomotor diseases, mental health care, with specific attention to crisis psychology, infectious diseases, hyperbaric medicine, expertise medicine, aviation medicine and hypobaric medicine. Minister, I have the following specific questions. Does the statement in the coalition agreement mean that the medical services will be phased out in the Military Hospital? Will defence personnel continue to be able to rely on these services for free in a civilian hospital? What will happen to the medical technical and non-technical staff currently employed in the Military Hospital? Will the burn center be moved? If so, where to? Where will the biotheque, where the collection and storage of blood samples of personnel is now taking place prior to and upon return of operations?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u62	Mr Top, I have said several times that I do not want to anticipate the strategic plan and the studies that are currently under way. The fact is that we will have to consider how certain rights can be fulfilled in the future. The fact is, you have read this correctly, that a specific sentence has been inserted into the coalition agreement on the Military Hospital, based on the concern that this is a serious budgetary burden. We will have to look at this thoroughly. That is all you need to get out of the coalition agreement, but we will look at it thoroughly. I believe that the main concern of the partners at the table was to see how we could do better, given that the Military Hospital is such a heavy budget item.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u63	My reply may be brief, because we will have more concrete proposals in the near future. However, I would like to express my concern that the service provided in the Military Hospital should at least remain guaranteed. There is a great deal of concern to be paid for this. In terms of staff, both military and civilian personnel, account must also be taken of the present situation. There is also a great deal to be done about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u64	Minister, I would like to draw another sentence from the coalition agreement and the policy statement. It states that there is a need for a legislative initiative, or at least that it will be examined, in order to align the political rights of the military with those of other officials. Minister, does this mean that you believe that soldiers will also be able to stand for the Flemish, federal and/or European elections? Secondly, at present a number of target groups, such as command functions, excluding waiting personnel, on board a ship, teachers and a number of others, are excluded from being part of municipal and provincial councils. Is it intended to revise those lists as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u65	Mr Top, I have just congratulated you on your reading of the coalition agreement. You should read what it says. The coalition agreement does indeed say that the need for a legislative initiative will be examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u66	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u67	I'm not gonna take any credit for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u68	Mr Top, would you like to replicate?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u69	I don't have a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u70	Madam President, I do not know to what extent it is customary for a Member to answer a question or answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u71	That is not the custom at all, Mr Buysrogge.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u72	Madam President, I appreciate the concerns expressed by Mr Top. However, last Monday we held a broad debate on the government statement and on the Minister's policy statement. I wonder why such questions are then asked again here. I appreciate Mr Top's concerns, but I do have questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u73	Madam President, Minister, this question is also about the government agreement and more specifically about the future of a number of services. The title of my question lists them all, with their abbreviation. As a new Member of Parliament, I sometimes have to look to find out what they all stand for. You will therefore look at the future, the place and status of the National Geographic Institute, the Royal Museum of the Army and the War History, the Central Service for Social and Cultural Action and the Institute for Veterans and National Institute for Disabilities of War, Old Warriors and War Victims. I read in your policy statement that the government has already decided that the IV-NIOO will have to leave its existing offices in Brussels on the expiry of the lease at the end of 2015. A working group under your supervision will assess the advantages and disadvantages of a structural approximation between the Central Social and Cultural Action Service and the IV-NIOO. Who will be part of that working group? Will the syndicates also be invited or represented? Is it supposed to be a merger? Where will the IV-NIOO move in 2016 or is that not yet known?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u74	Mr Top, the federal government agreement indeed states that a working group is to be set up under the supervision of the Minister of Defence, which I am, along with the last two administrations, CDSCA and IVNIA. This working group will assess the advantages and disadvantages of a structural approximation between the two parastaals. You're specifically asking about the unions. Because they are involved in the management committees of the two, they will be involved in the working group. Directly or not, I don't know. The Management Committee shall decide on the delegation to a working group. It is up to the Working Group to define the different options of structural approximation and to determine the advantages and disadvantages for each of these options. According to the government agreement, a report from this working group will be delivered to the government within the year of the new legislature. So that's before October 11, 2015. The aim is to achieve savings by achieving economies of scale and increasing efficiency by taking into account the tasks of all parastaals. There is no preference for any kind of synergy. The most cost-effective solution that offers the best guarantee to guarantee the quality of service to rightholders will be chosen. This may be a merger, but that is not necessary. Mr Top, I know that there is always a view in politics that this has been settled for a long time and that there is only one working group for the form, but that is not the case. A working group will actually be working to see what the best solution is to give the right holders to whom they are entitled as little overhead as possible. With regard to housing, the current offices are very large and expensive. The government has decided that this cannot continue. They're still looking at where they're going. This will, of course, depend on what the working group decides on the cooperation and the final synergy that is being found.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u75	Madam President, Minister, I wanted to speak on what was said in the press at the end of last week about the potential closure of the Beauvechain airbase. This information surprised me because the Beauvechain base has, on numerous occasions, demonstrated its importance in particular by its location and proximity to the Brussels region and Melsbroek airport. This base was used as an airport to take off at a few European summits while Brussels-National airport was experiencing some problems. It is also useful in the air transport, training and reception of our helicopters. Its usefulness is therefore no longer to be demonstrated. Minister, on what information did these newspapers use to quote the Beauvechain base as potentially affected by your savings plan? What is your vision for the future of this airbase? Is there a schedule for the closure of some settlements?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u76	Mr Crusnière, concerning your first question, you must address the newspapers themselves! I really can't give you a reasonable answer. For the rest, within the Ministry of Defence, no decision has been taken on the closure of the neighbourhoods. In accordance with the 9 October 2014 government agreement and as I confirmed in my policy statement before yesterday, I will propose, within six months, a long-term strategic vision for the government, in which the infrastructure component will be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic022x.u77	Minister, thank you for that answer. As far as the press is concerned, perhaps you should have better control over your department's communication. I would like to draw your attention to the importance and potential of the Beauvechain base as part of your strategic thinking.
