ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u1	Minister, I would have liked to ask my very first question from this legislature. It's about the increasing number of gay laws on the African continent. At the end of September, a bill was tabled in the Chad Parliament that makes homosexuality criminal. This makes Chad the 37th country on the African continent to take action against Holebishops. We have also recently seen initiatives in Cameroon and Gambia, while criminalising homosexuality in countries such as Zimbabwe, Nigeria, Tanzania, Swaziland, Sierra Leone and Malawi has been used for some time. In the bill mentioned, homosexuals risk a maximum prison sentence of 20 years and a fine of up to 500 000 Central African francs, which are very high amounts for a very poor population. The proposal is, therefore, once again a blow in the fight for holebi rights and light in line with a regrettable evolution in the African continent. The Nigerian President also ratified a law in January of this year banning gay marriages and penalising them for up to 14 years. Public affection for persons of the same sex, as well as being a member of a Holebi organization, is also prohibited by this law. Furthermore, there is in Nigeria, Mauritania and Sudan also the possibility to apply the death penalty. All these developments are very worrying. When we look at the 18 Belgian partner countries for development cooperation, 13 of them see all kinds of discrimination against holebi's. The Belgian Development Cooperation Act, around which development cooperation policy has been built, sees human rights as a priority theme for this development cooperation. Minister, you also mentioned this priority in a recent article in De Standaard. These developments lead me to further questions. Does the Belgian Federal Government consider that recent initiatives, despite their democratic character, constitute a gross violation of the right to sexual orientation and are therefore unacceptable? What is the latest state of play in the Chad legislative process and what is Belgium's position? Will Belgium take action if this bill is adopted? Due to the overall negative development of holebi legislation on the African continent, Belgium is obliged to adopt a clear, strong and coherent position. Has a policy been developed around this and what are the government's plans? Have any attempts been made to adopt a united European position? Do you also consider aligning Belgian development aid and financial support to African partner countries with these further developments in their legislation? Minister, you also stated in the above article that countries in the region of Central Africa listen when Belgium says something about their internal developments. Are there any concrete evidence of this on the ground? What concrete measures will the federal government take, in addition to sensitization campaigns and cooperation with NGOs, to give human rights a prominent place in our development cooperation policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u2	Mrs Capoen, congratulations on your first oral question, as just announced on Twitter. My answer to you is also my first answer as Minister for Development Cooperation. Your first question concerns the status of Chad's bill and proposal. We have not been able to find out the correct status. We assume that it is similar to what is happening in Uganda and even more than 30 other African countries. It is therefore not concentrated in a number of countries. The Belgian Government condemns recent parliamentary initiatives in various partner countries of Belgian Development Cooperation to criminalise homosexuality and to impose severe penalties. Human rights are universal, indivisible and inalienable. I have indeed quoted this in an interview and that will be the central element of our policy. Has it been possible to reach a united position at European level? No, not so far. There is hope that we will achieve this in the long term, but that has not yet been the case. Indeed, the new government intends to place human rights at the heart of development cooperation. My predecessor was of the opinion that, first of all, the people would be affected if development aid were suspended for serious human rights violations. That is why no action was taken when the Ugandan Parliament passed an anti-gay law. I want to look at this again. When one says that respect for human rights is one of the central benchmarks of development cooperation, one must also be prepared to draw conclusions from it. I asked my administration to provide a policy input in this area. I believe that the debate on the policy statement that we will be holding in a few weeks' time is a good time to discuss this further. I'm investigating this right now. The policy statement will follow in a few weeks. I would like to explain our position in more detail at that time. I believe that I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You have indeed answered all my questions. I will continue to follow human rights in Central Africa with you and far beyond.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I welcome you to our committee on development cooperation issues that affect several of our colleagues. I have already spoken in the debate on our intervention in Iraq, on the question of humanitarian aid, because the situation of the Iraqi people, in particular the Yazidis, the Christians, the Shiites, the Kurds whom I met in September, has not ceased to worsen. They could not take anything with them and benefit to the best of the solidarity of the population in the region where they have taken refuge. The need for food, health care, medicines and, above all, housing remains very high. The temperature has fallen sharply. Some nights are now extremely cold and this will obviously get worse in the weeks and months to come. Belgium has provided two million euros of humanitarian aid for Iraq. I quote the communiqué issued by the Minister for Cooperation on 19 August 2014: "The precise allocation of this contribution was to be determined on the basis of the on-site needs assessment, which is reported in particular by the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). During the debate in committee on 24 September 2014, the Foreign Minister confirmed "his willingness to take further action on humanitarian issues, particularly as winter approaches in the region". So far, however, I am not aware of any additional aid that would have been granted. In any case, NGOs active in Iraq were told that there was no available budget when they approached the Cooperation Department a few days ago. Minister, my questions are as follows. What humanitarian aid has been provided, through whom and to whom? What about the first two million euros announced by Belgium on 19 August 2014? What is the status of this decision? Has this money arrived at a good port? To which populations? What to do and through which partners? What is the status of the implementation of the additional measures announced on 24 September? For what amounts? Through which partners? For which regions exactly?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u5	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, thank you for your question. Belgium finances principal humanitarian assistance based on humanitarian needs established and assessed by recognised humanitarian actors. Humanitarian assistance to Iraq is no exception. Thus, in order to ensure the fastest, most efficient and effective aid possible, Belgium decided to release, in August 2014, in the context of the Iraqi humanitarian crisis, 2 million euros to the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF). CERF is a common reserve fund in support of humanitarian action, funded annually by contributions from Governments and the private sector. Its objectives are to promote early action and response to reduce loss of life, strengthen response when time is critical and strengthen key elements of underfunded humanitarian response. In the absence of available funding, these mechanisms thus ensure the coverage of life-saving programs within a very short period of time. It is used to allocate funds to United Nations agencies to meet critical humanitarian needs, based on priorities established under the direction of the humanitarian coordinator in the field. Funding for CERF is not allocated and it is therefore impossible to determine exactly what Belgian funds are allocated. However, I can tell you that CERF funding to humanitarian agencies operating in Iraq in 2014 amounts to $10.8 million. They ensured the implementation of projects in the areas of health, water, sanitation and hygiene, nutrition and food aid, shelters and supplies of essential non-food items. You are also asking me about further efforts to be made. In view of the complex budgetary situation, the number and scale of the current humanitarian crises, including Ebola and Syria, choices had to be made. Additional funding for humanitarian aid in Iraq has not been possible to date. Funding for this humanitarian crisis will again be considered in early 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u6	Mr President, Minister, I would have liked to have been sympathetic to you during this first exchange of views on the situation in Iraq; unfortunately, it will be difficult. For the first allocation, can you tell us with certainty that CERF allocates money for the Iraqi crisis or for all the crises of the United Nations? In other words, no one knows whether this money announced by the Belgian government to the advantage of Iraq has succeeded. I think it's a lot to play with truth and reality. Belgium allocated two million euros in a large black box, but did not know what happened. With regard to my second question, I am sorry to have to point out that the government has given a counter-truth to Parliament in the debate on Iraq by announcing that additional aid will be provided. It is not much, however, to double humanitarian aid to Iraq; it is even little in the light of the serious problems faced by these people, but much in relation to what we expect from Belgium. This afternoon, we will hear a number of people in committee, including representatives of the Yezidi community, who will come to testify to the situation of Iraqi refugees. They need emergency help. Everyone agrees on this point. Your government by Mr. Reynders' voice had announced additional assistance. Finally, that will not be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u7	Money is allocated through a fund. The advantage of this process is that funding is directly available and usable. In the absence of funds, the delay can be quite long. I recall that a total of almost $11 million has been allocated to humanitarian agencies working in Iraq. It is therefore clear that some of the funding has been allocated to that country. It's kind of a pot that's used. I come to your questions about statements made by colleagues or by my predecessors. For my part, I can only describe to you the current situation and the choices that were made before I arrived in the department. For the time being, the budget has simply been blocked at certain levels. For next year, we opted for more directly available aid and decided to make less use of the funds. But I will have the opportunity to speak in greater detail about this during the discussion of the policy note.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u8	I regret that Parliament is not told the truth. I can fully understand all the budgetary constraints you are facing, but this is about the new Foreign Minister who was speaking on behalf of the government in a committee in which several members of the government had been invited to participate and to speak, in particular, on the humanitarian side. Everyone knows that Belgium has found the necessary means to intervene militarily. Finally, the budget needed for humanitarian assistance was much smaller than the budget allocated for military intervention. For my part, I therefore deeply regret that we are not paying attention to the situation of the population. I repeat that it has been three months since the Yezidis lived in dreadful conditions. We didn't find a euro to help them! I really invite you to talk to the Belgian operators. Some of them are active in Iraqi Kurdistan and have no money to work. The United Nations system is full of money, especially as Saudi Arabia has made an allocation of $500 million for northern Iraq, with a special condition that this money should not go to the Kurdish government or NGOs. We are therefore in the paradoxical situation that the United Nations system, which you have also helped to finance, cannot spend the money it owns when operators, international and local NGOs and the Kurdish government do not have the means to act.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u9	So far, the Belgian NGOs have not asked us any specific questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u10	I know that Handicap International has addressed the Belgian government, but perhaps not in the last fifteen days since they were told that there was no more money.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u11	Parliament has had the last word, that is the rule here. Every time you take the floor, Minister, and if the Member asks, I am obliged to give him the floor again, but the incident is now closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u12	Mr President, Minister, our committee has recently heard two representatives of Burundian civil society, whose remarks have raised a great deal of concern among the members of our committee. In addition, a new report on Burundi, which is extremely challenging and worrying, of the two NGO platforms, the CNCD and 11.11.11, was published yesterday. Indeed, the political space in Burundi is shrinking, human rights defenders are being prosecuted, freedom of expression is being violated. Many questions are now being asked about the implementation of the electoral calendar and the methodology used. The youth movement of the ruling party, the Imbonerakure, the youth branch of the CNDD-FDD, intimidates and even kills opponents with impunity. This movement is armed, and is said to have been trained in the DRC. Investigations have reportedly been conducted by MONUSCO in this regard. The democratic space has been greatly reduced. These are the conclusions of a report recently published by Amnesty International entitled "Burundi - Locking. When the political space shrinks." While the recent release of the most famous Burundian human rights defender, Pierre-Claver Mbonimpa, aged 65, can be welcomed, it is only a measure of provisional release for health reasons, with strict restrictions on movement. Concerns are growing about the President's willingness to stand for a third term. He does not hide it, even in the light of the events in Burkina Faso, which do not seem to have given him the desire to abandon this project, which the Constitution does not allow. Belgium, beyond the historical ties between our two countries, is also the largest bilateral donor to Burundi. Belgium's development aid budget oscillates around EUR 40 million per year. The Belgian Cooperation website still mentions the 2009-2013 peak. The envelope for Burundi has been significantly increased to reach EUR 150 million over four years. An additional envelope has also been provided in the event that various conditions are met. Of course, these conditions deal mainly with human rights, electoral calendar and good governance. Minister, what is your analysis of the political situation in Burundi? What is the nature of Belgium's political dialogue with the Burundian authorities, particularly with regard to the possibility of a third mandate for Mr. Pierre Nkurunziza, the actions of the Imbonerakure militia and the serious, persistent and continuing human rights violations? Has a new peak been signed? Was the conditional tranche provided for in the previous peak finally granted? If so, why? What about Belgium's allocation (4 million) as part of the electoral process, which must be released in two tranches. The second tranche may be released only on the basis of strict conditions. What about the eventual release of these two slices?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u13	Mr Dallemagne, your analysis is correct. The situation in Burundi is quite worrying. Together with my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, we remain concerned about the situation in Burundi. While ethnic spillovers are unlikely but not impossible, the political situation, the narrowing of political space, political violence, changes in Burundian laws are negative signals and hinder a calmed election climate in 2015. The European Parliament's recent resolution is a strong and important signal, which I support. Noting the deterioration of the situation, my predecessor has repeatedly communicated Belgium's concerns during his meetings with the Burundian authorities and, like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, called for respect for freedom of political space, respect for the opposition and respect for the ethnic balances established in the Burundian Constitution and the end of political violence. I will continue to carry these messages in the future. At the recent sectoral assessment workshop which evaluates our former government programmes, our Ambassador recalled that this situation threatened the continuation of development cooperation between our two countries. In addition, Belgium has included governance criteria in the specific convention that was recently signed for our support of the Burundian police. This is a first in our bilateral programs. Our support for the elections will also be conditional. The release of the second tranche of our contribution to the United Nations Development Programme, which implements the support programme, will be based on a positive assessment of the conduct of the elections by the contributors. In addition, Belgium supports civil society in Burundi through various channels, which is in a rather difficult situation for the time being. A new cooperation programme is being prepared for approval by a joint committee. Given the developments in Burundi, I believe that this joint committee should not be held before the presidential and parliamentary elections in June 2015, but rather at the end of 2015. At the Special Committee of Partners, which launched the preparatory process in March 2014, our Ambassador informed the Burundian authorities that Belgium would take into account the conduct of the elections before signing a new programme. The indicative tranche that was released in mid-2012, based on a positive assessment of the criteria contained in the 2010-2013 cooperation programme, was released prior to the sharp deterioration of the political situation. The criteria used were as follows: 1. the statement of the two election observer missions stating that the 2010 elections as a whole had taken place honestly; 2. the validation and start of the implementation of the Burundian strategy for good governance and the fight against corruption; 3. A World Bank Country Policy and Institutional Assessment (CPIA) indicator equal to or above 2.5; 4. successive positive reviews of the IMF Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u14	Minister, thank you for your encouraging response to a situation that is extremely worrying. I think that Belgium can play an important role. He is an important partner and dialogue, especially political dialogue, is crucial. I'd have a little correction to make. You talked about indicative slices. I guess you wanted to talk about incentive slices. I would also like to invite you to read the report of the CNCD-11.11.11 which contains six recommendations which overlap, in any case in part, some of the proposals you are making. For my part, I will continue to pay close attention to the situation. Beyond your proposals, a European Union election observation mission should be set up early enough in the electoral process. The first election is known to take place on May 25, 2015. The first elements of an observation mission would have to be several months before. It is important that you can, whenever necessary, denounce slippages in the electoral process, including the road map, the Code of Good Conduct, the Burundian Constitution, the Arusha Agreements and the Electoral Code. You must also be able to denounce the serious human rights violations that are taking place in Burundi today. It's important. Belgium's voice is still being heard in Burundi.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u15	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of September 2014, the Israeli government unlawfully demolished part of a electricity grid supported by Belgium in the West Bank. It would be about 70 power poles and 24.5 km of electricity wire. It's not just been demolished, the power poles would really have been destroyed, so they couldn't be recovered. It is not the first time that the Israeli government has demolished infrastructure that foreign governments have helped to finance. There are some indications that it will certainly not be the last time. Apparently now a kindergarten with a playground has come into the field of vision. The school was also financed by the BTC. That's why we're worried. Of course, this is a very serious problem for the local population, which is first affected by the demolition work. However, given the Belgian support and the direct impact on the BTC's financial support, we are also involved. According to the reports, the BTC had already received information on the demolition works in progress since 2007. Diplomacy has apparently also tried to stop the demolition, but unfortunately that effort was in vain. Mr President, first of all, what is the damage to the electricity grid? Secondly, did the BTC have the necessary permits to participate in the project? Thirdly, what steps have been taken since 2007 to combat demolition? Finally, things have not been done and it has happened now but what measures will the BTC take to prevent such situations in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u16	Minister, I agree with the question. It should be added that it is the first time a Belgian project has been demolished. Moreover, the demolition of the power poles has been very conscious. Apparently, the building permit was under discussion by several governments. However, it is important that this ultimately affects humanitarian needs on the ground, in particular access to water and electricity. In the past, development projects from other European partners have already been addressed. There is, therefore, probably a procedure in place. Minister, I still have a few questions. First, the project was carried out by the BTC. Can you explain the cost of the project? Was the project financed exclusively by Belgium? Secondly, it seems that Minister Reynders has already made representations to the Israeli ambassador to ask for explanations. Did you get any information on that? Have you also taken steps to get an explanation about this? If not, why not? Thirdly, there seems to be a procedure for compensation. Have we already claimed compensation at European level? What is Israel's position on compensation? How much could the compensation be? Fourthly, the Belgian ambassador to Israel would also have taken steps with the Israeli Government. Who has the ambassador been in contact with? What agreements were made with the Israeli Government? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u17	Mr President, the questions deal with the section of the electricity grid in the village of Al Taweel on the West Bank, which was destroyed by Israeli soldiers on 29 September 2014. The network was established as part of the project Rural Electrification financed by Belgium and implemented by the BTC. The aim of the project was to improve the living conditions of more than 60 000 inhabitants of the West Bank in the Palestinian region by supplying electricity to villages. A total of 67 villages were connected to the electricity network for a total budget of 10 071 471 euros. The project started in 1997 and ended in 2009. The entire implementation was in close coordination with the Palestinian Authority. During the work there were regular meetings and meetings with the Israeli authorities, in particular with a view to obtaining permits to connect the new electricity lines to the Israeli grid. This also happened for Agrabah, the village in Area E, to which Al Taweel borders. In Agrabah an electricity line of 3.5 km was built, 700 meters of which connects with the village of Al Taweel. Al Taweel is a small, poor community of about 20 families, who live off agriculture and livestock farming. For humanitarian reasons, it was decided to continue the line to that community, which was deprived of electricity. Analysis shows that no additional authorisation was requested for the extension. The first question is whether a permit was needed. In addition, there was motivation for humanitarian reasons. It was a community that did not have any access to electricity, so that it lived in very difficult conditions. In March 2014, the Municipality of Agrabah sent a letter to the consulate stating that it had received an order to demolish the electrical substation in Al Taweel. The BTC visited the area concerned, together with the consulate, the mayor of aqraba and a local NGO specializing in tracking such cases. They appealed against the decision, but in vain, as Israel made the decision at the end of September to bring down the power poles. In total, some seventy poles for electricity cables were destroyed and rendered unusable. Opinions differ as to whether an exceptional permit should have been applied for for for the extension of the project. What is certain is that the destruction is inviolable under international law, because the project was humanitarian in nature. Following instructions from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Belgian Ambassador in Tel Aviv made a démarche to the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs: protests were made against the destruction and announced that our country intends to work at European level on a system of compensation for such destruction.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope that we will be able to avoid such situations in the future. In the short term I hope for a solution, as a kindergarten with playground seems to lie in the eye of the storm. Hopefully, you will be able to do what is necessary to avoid such practices. That seems to me all the more sensible given the budgetary situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u19	It is important that you mention the humanitarian nature of this. Twenty families are now deprived of electricity, those people are in need. I am naturally pleased that the Belgian Government has taken action against Israel. We must insist on compensation. Our group will therefore continue to monitor the steps taken, to check whether the licence is obtained and to check that measures are being taken to meet the humanitarian needs of those concerned, on the ground, from the BTC.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u20	According to my information, the chopped-off poles would be straight again by now. The wires of course hang a bit closer to the ground, but the electricity supply would have been largely restored. I have a colleague who made a mission to the region. He told me yesterday that the poles are up again. The cables have been reconnected. I wonder what the Israeli response will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u21	He can inform us?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u22	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u23	Mr President, Minister, as we know, the international community is facing the most deadly and significant Ebola epidemic to date, an epidemic that mainly affects West Africa, where more than 4000 people have already died as a result of infection with this virus. However, on Thursday, 30 October, the US ambassador to the UN felt that he had noted the "first tangible signs" that Ebola could be defeated. It is in this context that you met with Mrs Samantha Power and presented the various initiatives taken by Belgium to help the people of the countries most affected by the Ebola epidemic. Moreover, we can only welcome the proactive role played by Belgian Cooperation in this context for several months. I would therefore like to hear from you, Minister, about Belgium's contribution to the fight against this epidemic, which affects a very important region, particularly in the light of our country's diplomatic relations. What is the government's cross-cutting vision – Foreign Affairs, Cooperation, Public Health, National Defence – to address this epidemic and to support affected countries, local NGOs and the international community? Is it possible to use B-Fast? Why does National Defence seem to have been so slow in meeting the critical logistical needs demanded by local NGOs such as MSF Belgium? What is the status of our country's initiatives and budgets in this context? Are any further initiatives envisaged in the long term to eradicate this epidemic and to avoid any future similar crises? What coordination is there at European level? In your view, what lessons can the European Union learn from this crisis and the slow response to it, particularly in terms of logistics?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u24	Mr President, dear colleague, my predecessor had already decided to contribute to a number of flexible funds from international humanitarian organisations relevant to the fight against the Ebola epidemic. The following contributions were decided in 2014: the OCHA Central Emergency Response Fund for €14.5 million, the FAO Special Fund for Emergency and Rehabilitation Activities for €5.75 million, the World Food Programme's Immediate Response Account for €7.25 million and the Disaster Relief Emergency Fund of the International Federation of the Red Cross for €600,000. Belgium has made EUR 25.9 million available to flexible funds, as well as other donors because they are multi-donor funds. Some of these funds are being used to combat the Ebola epidemic. These are pre-funded funds, which has the advantage that they are directly usable. Taking into account the seriousness of this crisis, I have decided to finance five additional interventions for a total amount of EUR 9.5 million. These contributions will be fully utilized in the fight against Ebola. These are the following interventions. First, there is the Emergency Response to an hemorrhagic fever outbreak project (which corresponds to Ebola) in Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia of Médecins Sans Frontières for €3 million. The aim of this intervention is to stem the evolution of Ebola in the affected regions – in Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia. Secondly, there is a project within the framework of the Ebola emergency appeal of the International Federation of the Red Cross. This is a €2 million contribution to Liberia. The objective of the project is to address the imminent health risks to the population exposed in Liberia. The aim is also to strengthen local coordination mechanisms. Third, there is a WASH project, Water Sanitation and Hygiene, in UNICEF centres in Liberia. This is a contribution of EUR 2 million. The aim of the project is to install sanitation facilities in treatment centres and to organize information and education activities. Fourthly, there is a contribution of EUR 1.25 million to the regular Unicef budget for logistical support. We agreed with Unicef that these funds would be used for the rental of cargo aircraft to carry protective clothing. Fifth, there is a contribution of €1.23 million to the regular budget of the World Food Programme (WFP) for logistical support. These funds will be used to strengthen WFP's airlift capacity. The Belgian government is thus contributing to the treatment of victims, through MSF projects and through the International Federation of the Red Cross, to better hygiene in treatment centres and, through UNICEF, to strengthening the logistical capacities of UN organisations. The fight against Ebola has an internal and external dimension. As far as the internal dimension is concerned, Dr Erika Vlieghe of the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp has been appointed Ebola Coordinator. It is the responsibility of the Minister of Public Health. As far as the external dimension is concerned, coordination takes place at the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. Humanitarian aid is part of this external coordination. At the same time, the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation are discussing with colleagues from Defence, Interior and Public Health the opportunity to send a B-Fast mission to Guinea. This would include the installation of a laboratory that can analyze blood samples. We are in daily contact with the experts of MSF, the International Federation of the Red Cross and UNICEF. I also meet tomorrow with the Director General of the Red Cross, Peter Maurer. In addition, I can inform you that this situation has a national level and a European level. We are pushing as hard as possible for European coordination and for everyone to assume their responsibilities. Moreover, all efforts in this area are reported to Europe and are systematically inventoried. Moreover, Belgium welcomes the fact that Europe is currently focusing on a medical evacuation solution if necessary. Last but not least, there has been a lockdown situation in Sierra Leone for a few days, which we believe has been established with the best intentions. But it turned out that this solution does not help the most affected regions. This is a short-term solution, which is no longer necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u25	Minister, thank you for all this clarification. I would like to pay tribute to the work and funds released by Cooperation, even before this government, as you have pointed out. We remain on our hunger in relation to the global approach. I am glad to hear today that we are finally thinking about B-Fast to go on the ground in Guinea. We have asked for this many times since the beginning of the crisis. The Minister of External Relations and the Minister of Defence told us that it made no sense to send B-Fast to the field. It is now apparent that this was of interest. We regret that it took so long to realize that. We regret this slowness and lack of cross-sectional vision. Yet it is one of your government's battlehorses, according to the government's policy statement. I really hope that the conclusions will be drawn and that in the future the same mistakes will not be repeated if these kinds of epidemics are repeated in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u26	I give you a final clarification on the situation in Guinea. The question now is what measures are needed to ensure that Guinea does not find itself in a situation similar to that of Liberia and Sierra Leone, where there was a risk of an exponential epidemic. At the level of the discussions with Ms. Samantha Power, three elements were discussed. First, a need for on-site logistics capacity. Yesterday, fifteen Unimog military vehicles were sent from Rotterdam to Conakry. Secondly, the question of capacity at the level of mobile laboratories. This evaluation will be done with B-Fast. Thirdly, the question of command and control capability, namely the ability to organize things in order to ensure the same level of command and control in both Sierra Leone and Liberia. In fact, for the time being, we are beginning to have a global view of the problem. These three issues have already been discussed. Currently, one of them is already under way. The other two are discussed in consultation with the Departments of Defence and the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u27	I did not agree with Mr Dallemagne's question, because Mr Crusnière was excused for being retained in the Military Operations Monitoring Committee. Mr Crusnière, you now have the opportunity to ask your question, even if the answer is the same as that given to Mr Dallemagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u28	Mr President, Minister, I would be grateful if you would excuse me. I was unable to attend at the beginning of the session because I was actually on the Military Operations Monitoring Committee. As we know, the situation in Iraq is dramatic and has serious humanitarian consequences, including for neighbouring countries. Thus, the Kurdistan region is facing a massive influx of Iraqi displaced persons fleeing hundreds of thousands of attacks by ISIL armed groups. The health situation is becoming catastrophic in the Kurdish zone. It is for this reason that the resolution adopted by the House stressed that purely military intervention was insufficient to find a lasting solution to the crisis and that it was therefore necessary to have, in addition, a politico-diplomatic, financial, economic and, above all, socio-humanitarian approach with a view to stabilizing the region in the long term and solving the problem of refugees. In this context, Mr Minister, I would therefore like to take stock of Belgium's assistance to development cooperation since the beginning of this crisis. What are the budgets already made available or will be made available by Belgium for humanitarian aid in Iraq, through what forms? What cross-cutting approach does our country develop to help the ever-increasing numbers of refugees and displaced persons in Iraq and throughout the region?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u29	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, the answer is in relation to the one I have already given to Mr Dallemagne. The aid is granted through flexible funds. Belgium's aid to the Central Emergency Response Fund was EUR 2 million. This fund, which is financed by several countries, has given a total of $10.8 million to the Iraqi situation. More broadly, we have also allocated funds to the United Nations on refugee issues. With regard to the geopolitical situation, a conference was held. It was more focused on Syria but the two situations are still strongly linked. The conclusion of this European summit was to say that the situation is quite serious because 11 million people are displaced: 3 million are refugees in another country but 8 million are displaced in their country. These 11 million people represent a higher population than Belgium. Therefore, it is a rather exclusive situation that has a serious impact on countries that already have a political structure that is not always very stable. Lebanon, for example, with a population of 4 million, now hosts more than 1 million refugees. Imagine that Belgium is facing this kind of situation and you will understand that the latter is relatively serious. Humanitarian aid is clearly needed, but the solution will be political, which is far from obvious because the political situation there is very complex. However, with 11 million refugees, it is hard to imagine that this situation can be resolved otherwise. For my part, I have the feeling that we could be at a turning point. In other words, greater international dialogue could be envisaged with a view to finding a political solution in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u30	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u31	Mr President, this is the last question of this committee meeting and the first that I have the pleasure to ask you, Minister. I welcome you to this committee where the name De Croo has already often resonated with an interesting and sometimes alternative view of the problems. My question concerns the rights of LGBT people in the partner countries of Belgium. This question has already arisen on several occasions. You mentioned just now Uganda, with its so-called ‘anti-gay' laws, which was truly symptomatic lately. It is in this context that the House adopted under the previous legislature a motion for a resolution on this country, but which, more broadly, called for clear measures to be taken with a view to implementing a policy of non-discrimination against the LGBT community, without harming the assisted populations, which is an essential point. Therefore, my question is as follows. What position do you intend to develop in this area, especially when some of our partner countries adopt discriminatory laws against LGBT people? More broadly, the resolution called for a specific chapter on respect for LGBT rights in the evaluation reports on the Belgian Development Cooperation partner countries. Do you intend to respond to this request? Finally, how could Belgium, as part of its policy on sexual health and rights, better integrate the issue of LGBT rights in your opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u32	Mr President, this question is quite similar to the first question asked this morning. Today there are about 30 countries in Africa where the situation is worrying for LGBT people. For each partner country, we are preparing a report on respect for human rights. I am considering a different policy from that of the previous government in this regard. In the government agreement, we made it clear that respect for human rights will be a central element in Belgian development cooperation policy. In the past, it was thought that if aid were conditional, it would have an impact on the local population. Practice has shown that even if one can protest, show that one does not agree, things do not really change. I intend to take a different approach. As I said in response to Mrs Capoen's question, during the discussion of the policy note that will take place in a few weeks' time, I will provide more details on how I intend to do so. I can already tell you that for cooperation with partner countries, we will analyse in detail respect for human rights and certainly with regard to LGBT people.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-04-54-commissie-ic010x.u33	Mr President, I think this is a challenge. We found that not to challenge these partner countries did not really change their human rights policies. The challenge is to meet. While we maintain the necessary cooperation with these countries, we must also exert pressure to ensure that these inalienable rights are respected.
