ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u1	In the meantime, Minister, this question has become somewhat outdated. In the meantime, we have heard that the necessary stamps and permits have been delivered by the DVIS. The train can start between Brussels and Amsterdam from Sunday or Monday. That's good news. It was a bit of a shock on Monday 1 December, when the Dutch Secretary of State Mansveld delivered a letter to the Dutch House of Representatives stating that there was still no approval from Belgium to start with the new train equipment that should be in Amsterdam. Apparently that has been put right by now, but it did bring up nasty memories of history with the Fyra who had to provide the same connection, albeit on high-speed tracks. Madam Secretary, can you give a picture of the events of the last ten days? What were the problems? We read that the application from the Netherlands would have arrived very late. The question then is whether the audit of the file could still be carried out in a qualitative manner. After all, we must avoid repeating history with the Fyra.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u2	Mr Minister, my question is largely similar to that of Mr Van den Bergh. The debacle with the Fyra is in everyone's memory. It was then decided to re-enter the old Benelux train, first limited to The Hague, but from the entrance of the new transport plan that train would again run from Brussels to Amsterdam. Then came the letter from the Dutch Secretary of State Mansveld who questioned it. Minister, I have three specific questions. Firstly, the file would have been received too late. The legal deadline would be four months. What is the reason for this delay? Did you urge the Dutch Railways to submit the file more quickly? If yes, what was the answer from the Netherlands? Secondly, the director of DVIS told in De Morgen on 4 December that his service normally takes four months to carry out a proper check on the train sets. However, SNCB insisted that this would be much faster. A logical question then is whether this accelerated control procedure does not pose any risks with regard to the safety and proper operation of the train sets. Thirdly, these additional trains have already been approved by the Dutch Inspection and according to Secretary of State Mansveld they comply with European regulations. Does DVIS carry out the same checks or are there any additional checks? Would it then be appropriate for Belgium to re-check the train completely, even if it has already been approved by Dutch colleagues, in accordance with European regulations?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u3	Madam President, I hesitate before intervening.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u4	We are in the context of the oral questions. Two questions are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u5	Thank you. I understood that! I have put an oral question to Mrs Galant on the same subject, but the Rules allow me to join an oral question. Unless the rules have changed!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u6	You say you're asking Mrs. Galant a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u7	Yes, I will!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u8	In this case, Mr Borsus will answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u9	I made a difference!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u10	Mrs. Galant is physically present!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u11	But I can join the oral question from the speakers. The rules still allow me to do that? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u12	Ah, I thought so! P resident: Not in the context of oral questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u13	Only for questioning?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u14	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u15	I believe that in the future questions should be monitored when they are asked, because the question of Fyra has different entries. It is certainly within the competence of Mr Borsus.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u16	In that case, a question had to be drafted for Mr Borsus!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u17	All right! I'll be back later.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u18	Thank you for this question. My answer will be a little longer. In Belgium, DVIS plays the role of national railway safety authority. The tasks of the DVIS are laid down in Articles 74 to 77 of the Law of 30 August 2013 on Rail Codex. One of the tasks of the DVIS is to authorise the entry into service of the vehicles. This is provided for in Chapter 5 of Title 6 of the Rail Codex. The procedure for obtaining an additional authorisation to put a non-TSI-compliant vehicle in service is defined in Articles 197 and 198 of the Railway Codex. Article 198 states that the DVIS must take a decision no later than four months after the file has been submitted. The DVIS was informed by the Dutch Railways (NS) at the beginning of March 2014 of the intention to build 30 additional coaches for the expansion of the classic Benelux train service Brussels-The Hague and then Brussels-Amsterdam. The starting point of the NS is to request an additional authorisation for placing in service based on a first authorisation for placing in service, issued by the Dutch safety authority. On 3 March, the NS requested the review framework to be complied with by the modified carriages. The DVIS recorded this and informed the NS on 28 April. At the request of the NS, several meetings took place between the NS and the DVIS. In view of the limited time period for the preparation of the various technical files in the final phase, namely the final delivery of the authorisation, it was agreed that the NS would provide the required information to the DVIS according to their availability. This method allows the DVIS to submit any comments or questions to the NS at an early stage, which can follow up as soon as possible, i.e. well before the delivery of the final file. As a result, the DVIS can handle that file fairly quickly in a non-discriminatory manner upon receipt of all the required documents. On 27 November, the DVIS received the official request from the NS for the issue of an additional authorisation based on the first authorisation for placing in service issued by the Dutch safety authority on 26 November. The DVIS made its decision known yesterday and granted the authorisation to use the 30 additional carriages. The vehicles were therefore effectively initially authorised by the Dutch safety authority. The European legal framework provides that when a vehicle has already been authorised in a Member State, in this case the Netherlands, the safety authority in the Member State where the applicant submits a request for additional placing in service, in this case the DVIS, must verify only the technical specificities specific to that Member State. In the project concerned, the specificities are covered by the agreements on cross-border acceptance between the Netherlands and Belgium. This significantly reduces the workload of the DVIS. Therefore, the DVIS was able to issue the authorisation before 14 December 2014. The next step for the DVIS is the conversion of all Benelux vehicles for admission on the high-speed HSL 4. The review framework for the amendments was already established by DVIS on 8 January 2014. The DVIS currently lacks more information and can only issue an authorisation for HSL 4 upon receipt of the official request, which must be accompanied by the necessary documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. It shines a different light on the case, which otherwise came out. It is clear that there was a constructive cooperation between the Dutch Railways and the DVIS from early in the process. We can only welcome the fact that this has been done in a good way. This also allowed the procedure with official recognition to proceed quickly and the authorisation to be issued within 14 days. I am particularly surprised that Mrs Mansveld has sent a letter to the Dutch Parliament, in which she gives the impression at least that there would be a kink on the Belgian side, which, according to your story, has not been so explicitly. Well, that's odd to say. Let's hope everything goes well. I remember that permission for the Fyra was granted on 3 December, 14 days before it had to start driving. Now we are five days before the new connection has to start driving. I hope it is not a sign on the wall; we are counting on that situation not to repeat itself. We can only look to the future and hope that the process of driving on the high-speed line is still the ultimate goal of driving between Amsterdam and Brussels on the high-speed line.....................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your clear explanation. I agree with my colleague. The audit has been completed within a legal framework based on good agreements between Belgium and the Netherlands. Let's hope that the world is up to the optimists... that that train can run from next week and that that connection will work again. Cross-border public transport between the two countries is important. Hopefully we can all take advantage of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u21	Madam President, Minister, every day – still tomorrow and next week – we realize that mobility is a major problem for the citizens of our country, especially those in the Central Region. A fight is being waged to maintain safe, efficient and timely public transport for all users in our region. While the changes proposed in the SNCB's new transport plan are generally positive for users departing from La Louvière to other Walloon cities and stations, the services to Brussels will become a true fighter route for commuters. In this regard, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Among all the requests for investment made to SNCB by the cities and municipalities of the Central Region – I take to witness my colleague mayor of Braine-le-Comte because we had launched a common approach, all parties involved – concerning the infrastructure and the renovations and expansions of the stations, we are very worried because nothing (or little) is foreseen, unless you inform me otherwise, in the plan for the modernisation of the stations 2008-2013 or the plan for the modernisation of the stations 2014-2018. Can you inform me about the investments planned for stations in the Central Region during this legislature? As a result of the changes brought about by the new transport plan, the journey time between stations in the Centre region and Brussels stations is extended. For example, between Binche and Brussels-Central, the journey time increases by 8 minutes. How do you explain the increase in these journey times? Are these permanent or temporary increases? The new transportation plan provides for the removal of the only direct line to Louvain-la-Neuve for students in the Central Region (the Binche-Louvain-Ia-Neuve line) and for the replacement of this line by the Binche-Turnhout line. Minister, I would ask you to review your position and maintain a Binche-Louvain-Ia-Neuve direct line, at least at the beginning and end of the week and on Sunday evening to allow for the easy mobility of students. I know it was the previous government that launched this transportation plan. Minister, my question is timely. Sunday, you're going to launch a new transport plan, of which you're not the mother, I recognize. You told us, some time ago, that you wanted to review these investment plans, this transportation plan. In view of the decisions taken and your plans, I would like to know your position on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u22	Colleague, in terms of investment, about 7% of the planned multi-annual investment plan 2013-2025 for the South-West District will be devoted to the Central Region, at this stage about €6 million. The investments planned according to the order of advance of the files are as follows: in Écaussines, the renovation of the passenger waiting room in partnership with the municipality as well as the extension of more than 100 parking spaces within three years; in La Louvière-Centre, the construction of a new station and a car park of 450 places in the framework of a promotion market in collaboration with the city. In La Louvière-Sud, a masterplan was launched on 13 October last in partnership with the city, the SRWT and the TEC for a new bus station, sufficient passenger parking and to improve mobility in general; a new neighbourhood project is also envisaged for a better real estate connection between the station and the city centre. In Binche, a partnership is set up with the city to improve the station which is classified and a parking extension within five years. In Manage, the city and IDEA are considering a redevelopment of public transport mobility with subsequent adaptations of the bus station and car parks. In general, particular attention will be paid to the evolution of the number of passengers and the parking space according to the new transport plan, in order to respond quickly to saturations of the spaces that would occur within the next six months. As regards the increase in journey time, the new transport plan does indeed provide for an extension of the journey time of 7 minutes on the Binche-Brussels relationship. This prolongation is due to the work and the fact that the schedules were calculated according to the traffic of M6 cars at two levels in peak hours. This new, more realistic timetable should improve the regularity of the relationship in question. Once the work is completed, the minutes for the work should be recovered. With regard to the maintenance of the Binche-Louvain-la-Neuve direct line, the new transport plan does not provide for a direct relationship between Binche and Louvain-la-Neuve, whether on weekdays or weekends, but via a connection in Brussels. It should be noted that at present there is no direct relationship at the weekend either. The decision no longer to link Binche directly to Louvain-la-Neuve was taken in order to improve the punctuality of trains on line 108 Braine-le-Comte-Binche, since the latter should no longer suffer the consequences of the RER work on line 161 Brussels-Namur. As far as equipment is concerned, choices have been made regarding rolling stock throughout the network in order to ensure seating positions for a maximum number of passengers. The Binche-Turnhout relationship will be ensured in peak hours by two-level air-conditioned M6 trainsets, as well as by modernised M4 cars trainsets, two types of equipment offering a large number of seats. In off-peak hours, the trains of this relationship will be provided by quadruple motors allowing the supply of seats to be better matched to the occupations observed. As for the second rate towards Brussels, it was not possible to add an additional P train between Binche and Brussels for financial reasons (respect for budgets, principle of the closed envelope) and technical reasons (lack of peak available time paths between Hal and Brussels). A P Binche-Braine-le-Comte train connecting to Brussels was also not planned for the same budgetary reasons mentioned above. In addition, the addition of a connecting period at Braine-le-Comte would make this connection uncompetitive compared to direct trains. You also mentioned the provision of accurate information to travellers. The SNCB website covers all the timetables of the new transport plan in force as from 14 December 2014. In addition, a communication campaign is under way and hourly brochures will be available at the beginning of December; their distribution has just begun.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u23	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for her answers. I have a deep regret about the removal of the Binche-Louvain-la-Neuve direct line, especially for students. As far as the new transport and investment plan is concerned, when will you see it again? You quoted March...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u24	The new transport plan was to come into effect this weekend, but with the strike scheduled for the 15th, it will therefore be for the 16th of December. An analysis of the new plan will take place in March to prepare the future plan. We will take into account its positive and negative effects. The next transportation plan is scheduled for December 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u25	Madam President, Minister, between January and July 2014, the punctuality rate of trains would be more or less 90% according to the figures of Infrabel, the railway system operator of our country. On the other hand, according to the Belate.be site, which carries out a permanent monitoring of punctuality on the rail, only 75% of trains would be on time during the same period of the year. The spokesman for the public undertaking does not dispute Belate.be's figures but falls behind the methodology applied by Infrabel, which would be determined in their management contract with the Belgian State. Yet Infrabel acknowledges that the figures published by the Belate.be website may be better suited to the perception of travellers. On the basis of this information, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. How do you explain the variation between the data presented by Infrabel and those presented by Belate.be? Can you explain the methodology used by the public company to calculate train delays? What are the rules contained in the management contract with the Belgian State? From the very confession of Infrabel's spokesman, the figures published by Belate.be may be more consistent with the perception of travellers. Minister, would it not be time to review the methodology used to calculate the punctuality of trains in the railway operator's management contract? Finally, according to Belate.be, a number of trains would not have stopped at all the stations provided for in their basic itinerary. How do you explain that? Do you find that normal? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u26	Dear colleague, an adaptation of the methodology has already been carried out in 2008. Since then, two additional punctuality indicators have been planned to further reflect the actual situation of travellers. One takes account of the number of passengers on trains: the delay of a train crowded in peak hours, for example, weighs more than that of a train less filled in off-peak hours. The other takes into account punctuality throughout the journey, which is measured at 95 points in the network. In this way, account is also taken of the delay during the journey, even if the train succeeds in catching up and arriving at its destination on time. The punctuality of a train from Ostend to Eupen is therefore also measured in Bruges, Ghent, Leuven, etc. Finally, in order to get an idea of the overall punctuality, the punctuality figure must be consulted without neutralization. However, consideration will be given, particularly in the context of the development of future management contracts. As far as SNCB is concerned, this may happen as a result of a human error by the driver after changing the basic routes; but this is a marginal situation. There were five recorded cases out of a total of 113,410 trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u27	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for her response.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u28	Madam President, Minister, I come back to an issue that I had already tabled earlier this month but which could not be joined with the other two. You have already answered the question a month ago, but I think it is not pointless to re-examine the issue of regulation. Briefly, to go to the essentials, in the recitals of my question, I highlight the economic potential developed by and thanks to drones in the light of, in particular, what is being done in our neighbours in France and Italy. I also want to emphasize the security aspects and privacy aspects that should be a priority in the drafting of regulations. It is suggested that too strict regulation could hinder the growth of an emerging industrial sector with promising potential and that it is therefore important to properly balance the limitations and place the cursor between too strict regulation and too permissive regulation. Finally, I also relay – my colleagues have done and will do so again – the impatience of the sector in Belgium in relation to this regulation which is waiting. Despite this legal uncertainty, we see the use that is made of drones and in particular the possibility of buying them in the shops. There is an urgent need to legislate on all these aspects, which I highlighted in my recitals. Do you intend to use the text of the royal decree as prepared by your predecessor? Do you think this will allow a rapid development of a Belgian economic sector around drones? Are you considering allowing commercial flights under specific circumstances with simplified administrative procedures? What parties have been heard to prepare for the drafting of this order? Can you put forward a date with regard to the outcome of this royal decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u29	Madam Secretary, a few weeks ago the subject of the drones was discussed. However, time does not stand still. Not a week goes by or something's gonna show up in the media about drones. Flanders awarded the city of Sint-Truiden €1 million in 2013 under the SALK agreements designed to boost employment in Limburg. With this money, the city must begin the installation of a drone valley on the industrial estate of Brustem in Sint-Truiden, a former military domain of 475 hectares in South Limburg. Last week I attended the conference on remotely piloted aircraft with my associate. Every month, even in our capital city, international conferences take place where people notice that the drone story is in full evolution. I myself regret that there is no European regulation in this area. In the meantime, Member States are themselves working on legislation in this area. Minister Wathelet, your predecessor, tried to create a drone-kb at the end of the legislature. We called it a light version. There are several organisations in our country, including BeUAS, which advocate regulation in this area. I suspect BeUAS has already come to see you. After all, it is about our airspace. I don't care whether there's a helicopter, a plane or a drone flying, but it has to be arranged. If a pigeon can bring down a plane, then a drone can also bring down a plane. You can fly at different altitudes: 50 meters, 200 meters or 2000 meters. We are talking about what has a connection to the Defense Department. In any case, Defence, the Directorate-General of Aviation and Belgocontrol have every interest in being known as "inherited" when they issue a licence to companies "inherited" that there is a regulatory framework. I would therefore ask you to do something about this with urgency. Everyone is looking at you, Madam Secretary. We ourselves have a lot of questions from companies that are working on this in our country. I have some questions. Considering the innovation story, are you considering actively supporting the Flemish support points for the development of the drone industry? I know Flanders very well, and I suppose you know Wallonia very well and have a view on it. If so, how do you see this support in concrete terms? Innovation and in particular the development of the drone industry is supported in Flanders by the knowledge institutions, including the VITO. As a competent minister, can you guarantee that the federal regulations on the drones will at least not hinder the innovation process? Our neighbouring countries are also very busy drafting the regulations, as was shown again at an international conference last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u30	Mrs. Heeren, may I ask you to speak more succinctly? Normally speaking time is two minutes before asking a question. If we don't stick to that, we'll never get through our agenda with all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u31	Thank you. Madam Minister, what steps do you intend to take to anchor the Belgian expertise of this promising industry here, so that we can continue to go through innovative strategically? Finally, South Limburg is rolling out a drone valley. A business development manager was appointed and an increasing number of companies want to settle in that drone valley. Innovation and high technology applications go hand in hand there. In what way can you support that entrepreneurship? Are you thinking of setting up experimental garden projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u32	Madam Minister, I asked your predecessor a number of questions about this because, as my colleagues have said, today, the current drone legislation allows drones to fly only with special authorization from the Air Transport Directorate General (DGTA) for flights with test, research, demonstration or training status. A more favourable legal framework for the development of drone flights for commercial purposes has been eagerly awaited for years by a large number of entrepreneurs active in this sector. There are many commercial applications: advertising, tourism, cinema, mapping, monitoring, agronomy, etc. And the expected economic impact of this activity is enormous. Your predecessor's cabinet, Mr. Wathelet, had drafted a royal decree to that effect. Unfortunately, the latter was not published, for lack of agreement with the Regions, if my memory is good. However, Defence and Belgocontrol were reluctant to overflight these drones, fearing the danger of civilian or military flights. In order to address these concerns, the draft Royal Decree provided for the authorization of drone flights only in the most remote areas and at a maximum height of 60 metres. It seems to me that the criteria laid down in the royal decree in preparation were still too restrictive to allow the development of these flights in a commercially interesting way. Therefore, Madam Minister, can you indicate what happened to this royal decree under consideration? Do you think you will rewrite the royal decree in a more favourable way than your predecessor intended? How long do you think this draft royal decree could be published?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u33	Colleagues, the draft royal decree is a working basis which must meet first, the imperatives of security and respect for the privacy of citizens, and second, the demands and needs of professionals in the sector with regard to the professional training of telepilots, the promotion and interest of the sector. Thirdly, the project must encourage the private sector in Belgium to innovate and develop its activities, and finally, it must fill the legislative gap with some of our European neighbours, for example France. There is also a need to ensure an integrated collaborative approach with the other Member States and the European Commission. I also reiterate that the European Summit of 19 December 2013 launched measures to allow the gradual integration of the remotely piloted aircraft systems, RPAS, into civilian airspace from 2016. At the federal level, the parties heard were Belgocontrol and the Ministry of Defence. This Friday, I am still meeting the BeAUS association which represents the interests of all Belgian companies and institutions active in the unmanned aviation sector in Belgium to let me know its demands and needs. My firm has already met with EspaceDrone, which is a training centre in the process of accreditation. DGTA is awaiting the publication of the Royal Decree to finalize the official accreditation of the schools in question. EspaceDrone provides theoretical and practical training to become a pilot of professional drones. Finally, I will work closely with DGTA. DGLV-DGTA supports developments in the RPAS sector by providing a procedure for obtaining a temporary licence for aircraft testing, for testing useful cargoes and for training pilots. The drone sector is a future economic sector in Belgium and elsewhere in Europe. Indeed, the applications of these drones are concrete and can also cover missions of public interest in agriculture, infrastructure monitoring, firefighting, surveillance of disaster areas, control of crowd movements and scientific experiments. In Belgium there are 400 remote-controlled aircraft. That is why, first of all, as the coalition agreement states, I want to create a legal and balanced framework for the use of unmanned aircraft, taking into account its innovative character, its safety considerations and its respect for private life. The removal of the legislative deficit from some of our European neighbours seems to me, from the strategic point of view you have mentioned, to be the first thing to be done. You will understand, we must act in the general interest but certainly not in haste, even if we have been talking about this issue for a very long time!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u34	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I stress the balance between the different concepts of security, protection of privacy and the development of channels. Care must be taken to ensure that there is no technological protectionism on the part of those who use air assets with pilots. It will take "doing the cursor" so that this sector can develop in complete serenity and safety. We will not fail to follow up on future developments in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u35	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. Indeed, innovation and high technology applications go hand in hand in the drone industry. That is why I am asking an additional question, in view of the new legislation you are working on. Is it possible to provide for exceptions for certain areas and under strict conditions, to support entrepreneurship through pilot projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u36	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I am glad to hear that you are not unemployed with regard to this matter, that the old draft serves as a basis for progress and that it will be possible, in the light of the consultations under way, to adapt it. Indeed, as my colleague, Mr Foret, has said, this sector of the future with significant economic benefits must have favourable conditions for its development. It would be a shame if our country were to lag behind in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Geerts converted 440 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u38	Minister, in 2012, SNCB's 2013-2025 investment plan was put in place. On this basis, railway lines were listed in three categories, A, B and C. Lines A continued to receive the necessary investments for their proper functioning. Lines B simply had to be maintained in the short term, with no improvement or innovation expected. Lines C were condemned in the short term as no investment or maintenance was planned on these lines. This categorization had been enthusiastically received by the entities concerned. More specifically with regard to line 43, it seems that this line is a new tool except in a small section (between Bomal and Marloie) where there are still about ten kilometres of roads to clean up. This line is frequented by nearly 6,000 people on the train every day, making a total of 12,000 passengers a day. This number of passengers is higher than that carried by other lines classified in category A or B. Moreover, it is an expanding line: it has seen its volume of passengers double over the last three years and it contributes, according to my information, to bringing 30% of passengers to the Liège-Guillemins station. I would also like to stress that the role of the train in the Ourthe Valley is essential for its economic, social and tourist development. Line 43 is not the only source of concern. Line 42 also suffers from this classification in category C. The disappearance of these lines would handicap an entire region. There is a need to maintain a high-quality public service and transport supply that meets the needs of users, particularly those living in rural areas. Minister, my questions are as follows. What are the criteria for this classification in three categories? Is this division into three categories still relevant? Apparently, line 43 is classified as category C. However, given the state of its infrastructure, from good to excellent, and the number of commuters using this line, is this classification appropriate? Do you confirm the figures for the expansion of line 43 and the number of commuters on that line? It is indeed essential that savings be made by the government, particularly in the operation of the rail network, but can it be envisaged that the projected savings will not be at the expense of rural lines essential for maintaining real activity and economic attractiveness? I would like to make it clear, Madam Minister, that I had already tabled this question some time ago, but I think it is still relevant. Of course, you have come out on the subject with a firm position in relation to rural areas, but in this way we will be able to take stock and you will be able to give us all the information necessary for this clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u39	Madam President, with regard to the categorization of railway lines on lines A, B and C, it is the result of a study carried out by Infrabel. According to October counts, lines 42 and 43 account for 8.5% of traffic to and from Liège. The increase in the number of passengers travelling through the Rivage-Angleur section was 7.5% between 2011 and 2014. On the same section, which includes the traffic on lines 42 and 43, there are a total of nearly 6,300 passengers on a daily basis, the two traffic directions combined at the level of Angleur. Finally, the density of passenger traffic per kilometre on the Rivage-Angleur section was 4,220 in 2013, counting in October. SNCB's new transport plan, which will apply from 14 December 2014, presents a similar offer to the current service frequency offer: one train per hour, plus P trains in peak hours during the week and one train every two hours at weekends. As far as rural areas are concerned, I know that your question was tabled on 12 November, but I was on site in Marche-en-Famenne only last Tuesday, 2 December. A presentation of the new transport plan was again given to all local agents. I confirmed that lines 42 and 43 would not be deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u40	Madam Chair, Minister, I thank you very much for the clarifications that I believe it was interesting to receive. You say Infrabel has the categorization. I do not understand why these lines are included in category C. It was perhaps your predecessor who had decided so. I don't disagree. But having a firm position and maintaining these important lines for rural areas is crucial. I also understand that the government must meet certain financial standards and save money. In my opinion, your comments are in the right direction and meet the expectations of the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u41	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ann Vanheste's 457 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u42	Madam President, Madam Minister, it has come to my attention that, recently, the technical inspection of a motor vehicle with a registration plate from another State could no longer be subject to technical inspection in Belgium. In border regions, however, garages located in Germany, for example, may be registered as customers of Belgian Auto Security Centres. So far, no one had opposed it, but it seems that garages are no longer allowed to pass the technical inspection in Belgium from 15 November 2014. Of course, some garages regret this choice. Madam Minister, would there not be a possibility of allowing foreign garages in border regions to switch to Belgian technical checks?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to periodic technical inspections, only vehicles registered in Belgium can present themselves at the technical inspection stations which examine these vehicles on the basis of the Belgian and European legislation in force. In this respect, it should be stressed that technical inspection is the responsibility of the Regions as a result of the Sixth State Reform. It will therefore be up to the Regions whether or not to extend the control to vehicles registered in another Member State. As regards the technical inspection with a view to the registration of a vehicle, imported vehicles with a commercial registration plate may only be submitted to the technical inspection having a Belgian "good" or "test" plate. Vehicles may not be submitted to the technical inspection under foreign "good" or "test" plates under the Vienna Convention, which lists the conditions to be met by motor vehicles for entry into international traffic, including registration and a certificate of registration with specific vehicle information. However, the "good" or "test" plate is not linked to a vehicle, but to a natural or legal person. Therefore, the commercial plate does not provide the vehicle data on the one hand and registration on the other. A recent revision of the Belgian regulation – Royal Decree of 13 March 1968 on the general regulation on the technical conditions to be met by motor vehicles and their trailers, their components and their safety accessories, as amended in May 2014 – allows, however, the presentation of an imported vehicle without the corresponding registration mark for that vehicle. If the imported vehicle is not presented with the registration mark corresponding to that vehicle, it may be presented under another registration mark, except a commercial registration mark issued by another State, provided that the holder of that registration plate is mentioned on the application for registration of the vehicle submitted. The date of 15 November 2014 has been set to allow technical checks to be prepared (staff briefing and possible computer changes). This date is included in the instruction sent to the technical checks but in the meantime it has been postponed to 1 January 2015 in order to allow the professionals concerned more time to get in order, for example to request a Belgian "brand" or "test" plate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u44	Madam Minister, thank you. I note that there is still the possibility, in compliance with the conditions you have listed, of passing foreign cars into Belgian technical checks. I would be pleased to review your answer to let interested people know about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u45	Madam Minister, in 2012, EUR 2.8 million was invested in a brand new station building in Koksijde. Meanwhile there are plans for a new station building in Veurne, with a price of EUR 1.5 million. Nevertheless, public transport in the Westhoek remains a major problem. The rail link De Panne-Brussels leaves a lot to be desired. However, many students and commuters depend on the use of the train on a daily basis. Many tourists can also decide to leave the car at home by means of a cheap train connection. In addition to a modernised station building, we also need a well-functioning and efficient railway line. SNCB has announced that it will extend the journey times of direct trains on that route by half an hour from 14 December 2014, the day after tomorrow or very soon. In addition, the comfortable and spacious double deck trains will be replaced by older single deck trains. The tourism sector in our country is very concerned about the measures, because they are a step backwards in opening up the Westhoek. It seems very strange to me that, on the one hand, we are investing in infrastructure and, on the other hand, we are reducing the provision of services. What is your position on the replacement of the double-deck trains by the single-deck trains on the De Panne-Brussels railway? What is the impact on the number of seats? Do you recognise that rail transport to and from the Westhoek is difficult? How will this be discussed with regional and local authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u46	In fact, in the new transport offer, SNCB will no longer allow M6 double-deck trains to run to De Panne. The needs of its customers require that the large-capacity double-deck equipment be used in other places. In addition, on the line towards De Panne only combinations of five double-deck carriages are possible. On a train with five carriages there are 654 seats, of which 124 in first class and 430 in second class. Moreover, these trains only run during peak hours. Outside peak hours the trains are composed with train sets type break and train sets type AM96, Danish Nose. The new transport offer will also include trains type break during peak hours. On three paired train sets, type break, there is room for 762 passengers, of which 96 in first class and 666 in second class. So that's over 100 places more. SNCB thus responds to the increasing number of passengers and strengthens trains wherever possible. For example, more trains are used on Fridays and Sunday nights for the benefit of the students. SNCB first consults with the federal authorities. As early as January, the regional transport company De Lijn was informed of the new transport plan and received the timetable known at that time. At the beginning of July it was again informed about the adjustments. In February and March, SNCB organised road shows per province, to which the various public representatives were invited. The comments were examined and the adjustments were explained on a new road show in June 2014. SNCB is aware that the adjustment of the train supply entails new habits for its passengers. To inform customers as best they can, it is already possible to consult the timetable on www.nmbs.be on the basis of a travel planner.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u47	Madam Minister, I understand from your speech that we will have no fewer seats, but more seats and not double-deck trains, but single-deck trains. The most important thing is indeed to guarantee the provision of services.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u48	Mr. Chair, Minister, I understand that you have already clarified the situation relatively well on the occasion of the great oral speech to which you were entitled, like all members of the government. However, like Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, I have some concerns about my region, as a result of rumours that are circulating, particularly at the level of the Verviers district, about the abolition of railway lines in rural areas. Thus a plan would foresee the disappearance of the train lines from Eupen to Welkeraedt, Verviers to Spa and Liège to Trois-Ponts. Madam Minister, I would be grateful if you could give us a definitive clarification. What about this removal plan? How can such a document be circulated? It seems to me that the members of this committee are entitled to be informed as a matter of priority. What is the origin of these rumours? Many actors in my region, whether they are mayors or other decision-makers, would like to know exactly what the situation is.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u49	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, I will repeat what I have already said to your colleague. You're talking about moving plans. If you have any, I invite you to communicate with me. Indeed, it is rumours, intoxication and false information. These plans don't exist. Rural lines will be preserved. As I have already told your colleague, lines 42 and 43 will be preserved. As far as line 44 is concerned, I will travel to meet with local agents to reassure them and confirm that the line will not be deleted. I have the feeling that there is a mix between the new transport plan and the lines in question. The latter are under the responsibility of Infrabel, while the new transport plan is under the responsibility of SNCB. It runs the trains and Infrabel manages the tracks on which the trains run. We have to stop making amalgams about everything and anything. Services are changing, as a result of the new transport plan, but – I repeat – there will be no line deletion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u50	Minister, thank you for that clarification. You reassure us and I look forward to your next visit to our region. We'll make you a good welcome. Everyone involved in this case will be delighted with your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u51	Mr President, Mr Daerden has turned his question into a written question. Minister, I am at your disposal to make you visit with great pleasure what you do not yet know of the district of Verviers. I'm afraid to irritate you, but you'll allow me to ask my question because the situation is sore, as my excellent colleague who knows Theux well and his region has just spoken. It is normal for us to ask questions. Then you answer, you go to the field, etc. We have piecemeal information. I will therefore confine myself to the question that I have tabled concerning 43 - you have just answered it - and 37 quite precisely. Since the beginning of 2015, track works have to be undertaken on line 43 Liège-Jemelle between Bomal and Barvaux for an amount of 2 million euros. It would appear that the budget allocated for this work would not yet be allocated. Failure to carry out this work would de facto result in the closure of the section between Bomal and Marloie and the restriction of passenger trains between Liège and Bomal with a complete loss of attractiveness of the line and its thousands of passengers. In this case, cul-de-sac, signalling and catenary works should be undertaken in Bomal to materialize the end of the line, which would result in costs comparable to the investment required to repair the track. Can you, beyond maintaining the lines in rural areas, confirm to me that the budgets necessary for the rehabilitation of the track will be allocated well? Can you confirm to me that the train service will always be maintained, namely one train in each direction in hourly rhythm during the week with reinforcements in rush hour and one train in each direction in bi-scheduled rhythm on weekends and holidays? Can you also inform me about the future of the freight trains (3 to 4 per day) which currently run via line 43 between Germany and the Lhoist lime company in Jemelle, on the one hand, and those between Andenne and Jemelle for the lime oven of the same firm, on the other hand? Should the line be removed or restricted, these trains should be diverted via Namur and Ronet, resulting in an increase in kilometres travelled and noise pollution at Namur station. Finally, I should like to add that the railway lines have been designed so that avoidance routes can be established in the event of serious operational problems or maintenance work on one of them. The dismantling that would be undertaken in this savings plan would remove these opportunities and could lead to considerable delays and additional costs. As far as line 37 is concerned, there too important track work will have to be undertaken on this section in 2016. It would appear that the budgets for this work would not be allocated. De facto, line 37 would be limited to Welkenraedt and there would no longer be a link through the conventional line with Germany. Only the LGV 3 line would still make it possible to link Belgium by rail to Germany. This situation would enclave the Verviet region and prevent the development of the IC rail link project from Brussels to Aachen or another major German city. Finally, I make the same observation as in the case of the possible deletion of line 43, namely that the meshing of the lines makes it possible to establish diversion routes which will no longer be possible in the future. Madam Minister, could you please confirm to me that the budgets for the repair of the track will be allocated for this work, that the service of the trains between Spa and Aachen provided for in the new transport plan will be kept on schedule on weekdays and weekends, and finally that the project of extension of the IC Ostend-Brussels-Welkenraedt to Germany will be possible as soon as our equipment is approved by the Deutsche Bahn?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u52	Mr President, I would like to join those questions. I am concerned about the savings intentions and budget cuts for SNCB, which will inevitably have to be realized in one way or another. Fundamental changes could be made not only in the operation of the SNCB but also in the service provided to train users. Questions were raised about the maintenance programme in particular. There are possible deletions of lines, I will ask you about them too. But if lines are not regularly maintained, at some point they will have to be closed because they will no longer meet the criteria. The maintenance programme for railway lines 34 (Liège-Herstal), 42 (Liège-Gouvy-Luxembourg), 43 (Liège-Jemelle) and 44 (Spa-Pepinster-Verviers) is also put on hold, which could undermine the viability of these lines in the long term. With regard to the removal of line 44 between Spa and Pepinster, I hope that you will reply that this is a rumor that will never materialize. My colleague has already explained how much this line is widely used by students, but also by workers and tourists, in particular to go to Verviers, Liège and Brussels. Lines 42 and 43 are also used by students and commuters who join Liège or Brussels. The trend is to replace these small lines with buses. The journey usually takes twice as long. Therefore, what people do, and what students will do, and especially all those who live on the side of Hotton, Barvaux, Marloie, etc., is that they will drive to the Sart-Tilman in Liège and will not take the bus whose journey time will be too long. Line 42 has undergone very important electrification work which has required intense negotiations with Luxembourg since the tension on this line is different from the others. It is at 25 kV while the rest of the SNCB network is at 3 kV. From the moment there has been co-financing between Luxembourg and Belgium, if one touches on this line Liège-Gouvy-Luxembourg – which could lead to delays, reductions in maintenance or cancellations – does this not require consultation with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg? Another issue is the maintenance of the maintenance programme for all of these lines. Work is to be undertaken on lines 37 and 43. Are budgets planned? What's the timing? Will he be respected? If work is done, will the organised deviations be by train or bus? It is known that if deviation times change the mode of transport, users are permanently lost rather than temporarily.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, the lines in rural areas will not be deleted. I come from a rural area, so I can tell you that I will be even more attentive to ensuring mobility for rural communities, because they are already often very isolated. The maintenance of lines 34, 37, 42, 43 and 44 is planned for 2015. There should be no change in the capacity of these lines. On line 43, major maintenance work (renewal of ties) began. An important phase is planned to close this project at the end of March 2015. On line 37, major maintenance work (renewal of ties and rails) is scheduled to begin in August 2015. This phase of work is planned for a period of one month and the budgets are planned for 2015. On the lines under construction, SNCB always ensures that a quality train service is maintained in order to best meet demand. This adapted service must, however, take into account the constraints associated with the work, and therefore the traffic capacity left available by Infrabel. On this single-track line 43, the work is done partly at night, using free intervals of movement and partly during a second phase linked to a total cut-off during Easter holidays. During this one, the train service is obviously adapted. Passenger trains are replaced by buses between two consecutive stations and freight trains are diverted via Namur. On double-track line 37, one track is decommissioned and the trains run on the remaining track with suitable schedules during the work. Line 42 was financed by the European Union and Luxembourg, which wanted direct access to Liège. A possible decision to delete this line, which has not yet been envisaged, should therefore be discussed with the donors. There is no need in any way to renew the catenary on this line which operates in 24 kV, which also resulted in savings in the maintenance of the line.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u54	Mr President, I thank the minister for her answer. I promise you not to question him any more, except for a new fact, on these lines, since I draw the conclusion that not only will the circulation be maintained as it is, but also that the investments planned from 2015 onwards will be consolidated and committed. That's what I heard and I'll go check it out myself in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u55	Minister, as far as the interviews are concerned, you said that everything was in order for 2015. Your legislature will normally last until 2019. The plans also cover several years. Does your answer mean that for the following years, we don't know?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u56	The legislature lasts five years. You may not be following the work of this commission, but joint SNCB and Infrabel working groups will be set up and their proposals will be presented around March 2015. But I repeat, it is not rural areas that are targeted!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u57	Regardless of whether or not rural areas are targeted, the Liège-Gouvy-Luxembourg line crosses the rural areas of several provinces, but connects cities. In order to survive, these lines must keep their connections, stages, stops and reception capacity in the municipalities they cross. Our concern about this line will therefore concern rural areas and the junctions between rural communes and main axes, but also the fact that these routes remain accessible to commuters and rural users of this line.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u58	Madam President, Minister, I have already spoken on this subject during the discussion of your policy paper, but I did not turn my question into a written question because of a number of technical uncertainties. Every year about 15 to 20 people die in Belgian traffic as a result of a blind spot accident. What strikes me is that there are no detailed statistics on this matter, either by the public authorities or by the insurance sector, let alone a database of accident analysis. A blind angle mirror is an indispensable tool, but there are other systems, such as active detection systems and radarultrasonic systems, which can also prevent an accident. I have asked many questions about this in the past. A 2011 study by the BIVV deals with two systems, Lexguard and Lisa 2 Alert, but concludes that both systems are not good and not effective. We are now a few years later and the market did not stand still. A number of additional systems were developed, such as the Active Sideguard system, in collaboration with a spin-off of the VUB. It works on the basis of a new technology with an active detection system. The system is currently being evaluated, including by the City of Antwerp and waste intercommunales such as IVAREM, INCOVO, IVAGO and EcoWerf. The production of new systems is, of course, expensive and often takes place through producers, which does not improve objectivity. The government agreement stipulates that the government will encourage bicycle use and take measures to reduce the increasing number of pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists. Hence a number of specific questions. Firstly, Madam Minister, are you prepared to look at, or not within an inter-ministerial conference, how accurate figures can be collected in a database? Secondly, do you have any knowledge of new systems that help prevent blind spot accidents? Thirdly, are you prepared to stimulate further research? Fourthly, after a final study in 2011, will the BIVV carry out further studies, in particular with the new systems that are on the market today, in order to determine whether additional promotion can be made for such systems?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u59	Madam President, for more accurate data, it is not so much an inter-ministerial conference as an adaptation of the road accident form, the VOF. The Statistics Working Group set up by the Federal Committee on Road Safety has proposed the use of maneuver diagrams for the new VOF. The way in which this can be implemented is currently being explored. In the future it will be possible to have more reliable figures on blind-angle accidents using maneuver diagrams. Numerous new systems for the prevention of blind spot accidents are being developed incessantly. This is an evolution which I welcome, but I believe that caution is needed. The research of the BIVV in 2011, which has shown that the systems Lexguard and Lisa 2 Alert are not blissful, strengthens me in that vision. That is why I believe that any obligations of these optional equipment should be decided at global or European level. In the short term, the BIVV has not planned a new study on blind spot accidents or on the effectiveness of systems that could prevent such accidents. It should also be a rather extensive study, for which the BIVV would need additional research resources. As long as the blind spot makes traffic victims, it appears appropriate to investigate. However, the tight budgetary situation requires me to say that difficult choices will have to be made for the possible allocation of research budgets. I have a note for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for the note. I will ask additional questions if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u61	Madam Minister, according to our information, there is a problem, because Google Maps does not seem to have access to SNCB, for example, to plan a journey from point A to point B. Bus, metro and tram are already displayed, but the train is missing in the route determination from point A to point B. In the context of networked mobility, it seems logical to us that SNCB should be associated with this. Is it true that today it is not possible to link the railways to the Google Maps application? If so, what is the reason for this? Will this be resolved in a short time so that this digital tool can also be used for the train?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u62	Madam President, SNCB has been in talks with a number of major partners for a long time to make the theoretical timetables available and thus to make the most of the opportunities that these partnerships can offer. So far, there is no consensus between SNCB and Google on the contractual modalities and Google imposes conditions that are not acceptable to SNCB. These conditions have recently been relaxed and are now acceptable to SNCB. Discussions between SNCB and Google will continue. As far as the route planning on SNCB's apps is concerned, it is already multimodal. There are no concrete plans for multimodal mobile ticketing. Indeed, the current concept of multimodal ticketing requires that the ticket is registered electronically on a common carrier, and that is the MOBIB chip card.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u63	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I had also put a question to your colleague, Minister Van Quickenborne. It should be considered how open data can be used with a certain ease of use. It is good that the conditions are acceptable at the moment. We are waiting for the deadline within which this can be achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u64	Debates of the European Parliament 496 by Mr Geerts was withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Geerts converted 497 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 514 by Mrs Becq and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on Mrs De Coninck's 805 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u65	Minister, I am regularly questioned by users of the Marbehan station, who are concerned about the future of the station. In fact, on weekdays, the counters will now be closed at 1:10 p.m. and replaced by a ticket distributor. It is also up to me that the presence of station undermasters could no longer be guaranteed. I would like to inform you of the importance of the Marbehan station in South Luxembourg. I heard you on TV Lux's set asking where she was. It is located on line 162 between Namur and Arlon or in other words between Brussels and Luxembourg. The Marbehan station is an average of 5,025 commuters per week, or 822 people per day. It's not nothing! The train station drains commuters from many towns nearby: Habay, Tintigny, Etalle, Virton, Florenville, Léglise, Neufchâteau, Chiny or even Attert. About 80% of commuters come from the Gauma region, where SNCB's supply is really poor. The closure of the ticket office and the reduction of staff at the station raise fears for the future of the station. However, the number of travellers is there every day and requires a high-quality public presence and service. I also wonder about security if staff were to be restricted. Minister, can you inform me of the specific intentions of the SNCB regarding the Marbehan station? Are you considering maintaining the means to keep the windows open all day, in any case longer than is currently the case for this station? What about the situation and roles of the station chiefs and deputy chiefs in Marbehan? Should we fear for the future of this station and the safety of users?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u66	Madam President, I would like to reassure the Member. I don't need orientation courses or geography, but I haven't had time yet to get to all the stations in this country. I think I've done more work in a month than my predecessors in two years. In view of the situation at the Marbehan station, here too, if we had a concrete inventory of the state of all the stations in this country, we would not be in the current situation, where we are responding to requests for policies to make stations, in the absence of objective analysis of the state of our stations. With regard to Marbehan in particular, following discussions between SNCB, Infrabel and the Federal State, steps will have to be taken to achieve the savings requested by the Government. In this context, companies are working on the different paths, but no decision has been taken. Also, if you have been told that the Marbehan station will be abolished, I invite you to inform yourself that to date no decision has been taken. The working groups are only in progress. As far as the safety of users is concerned, it is ensured either by sales personnel, during the opening hours of the windows, or by patrols carried out by Securail outside those hours. SNCB also notes that more and more of its customers are opting for tickets via self-service sales channels. As a result, sales services at the Marbehan station counter beyond 1:30 p.m. weekdays are no longer warranted. The services on Saturday and Sunday cover a wider range in the afternoon in order to take into account the best hours of use of the station by the customers. Since 1 July 2014, SNCB's Transport Directorate no longer operates at Marbehan station. Since there are no yard operations carried out at this station, the presence of a station undermaster is therefore no longer justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u67	Minister, far from me to teach you a geography lesson. That was not my intention! But as you mentioned this question on TV Lux's set, I just wanted to make it clear. I didn't mention the removal of the station. I take care of the concerns of the users. It is normal for them to be concerned about the gradual decline in the station's activities and the abolition of the opening of the ticket offices in the afternoon. If there is no hope in the immediate future, we will see, in some time, whether ways will be found to strengthen the activity of this station.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u68	Mrs. De Coninck is no longer here. Her question No. 531 expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u69	Madam Minister, last week, during the discussion of the policy paper, you spoke very carefully about the security of the consideration. You would draw up an action plan for this. I believe that this is a very good intention. In the written version of my question, I have included the number of victims per year. In 2012 there were 16 fatalities and in 2013 6. An action plan was developed for the period 2008 to 2015. In addition, 200 further plans would be abolished by 2015. They would be replaced by a tunnel or a bridge. Since these are expensive infrastructure works, they were not only used on these infrastructure works as such but also on sensitization, with the new sound signals, for example. Madam Secretary, I will come to my questions. Do you have an overview of the number of accidents in 2014 and the number of fatalities? The action plan will end in 2015. Considerations would be abolished from 15 to 20 per year. However, the multi-annual investment plan 2013-2025 did not provide sufficient budgets for the abolition of consideration. For budgetary reasons, this could no longer be implemented at any time. How many considerations have been effectively abolished during that period? How many abolitions were planned? The plan also provides for a new prototype of assigned technology, a new governance system with new barriers and new lights. What's the status? Will there be a follow-up to the action plan that runs until 2015? If this is the case, can you deliver it to the committee when it is finished?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u70	During the first semester of 2014, 25 accidents were considered throughout the network with 5 deaths, 6 injuries and no bruises. In line with the objectives of the management contract, there have been 19 accidents of public consideration on passenger and/or freight lines resulting in 5 deaths, 5 injuries and no bruises. That amounts to an equivalent of 5.5 deaths. The Abolition Plan Consider 2008-2015 provided for the abolition of 200 considera tions. According to current insights, 119 considerations will have been abolished by the end of 2015. This difference is mainly due to the long lead time of the required administrative procedures and budgetary constraints. In fact, the multiannual plan for 2015-2025 provides for the abolition of consideration. For the 2015 budget proposal, the funds foreseen for the abolition of consideration were maintained, partly thanks to the acquisition of European grants. For the years 2016 and later, the impact of the imposed savings was not yet budgeted. Priority will be given to the elimination of consideration that has the most impact on punctuality and security. I now hand you a table of the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u71	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for her reply and also for the detailed table. For the municipalities this is important to know in the context of the drawing-up of the own budget, because each of them also has a share to be borne by the municipalities. That needs to be looked at further.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u72	Question No 534 is postponed at the request of Mrs De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u73	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, I may give the impression that we are repeating ourselves, as these issues have been tabled for some time now. Besides, when you were in our place, you weren't a bad question. With some colleagues, I was making the point that if we could have the minister's commitment to get answers to specific written questions within a reasonable time frame, we would avoid this situation, which may seem a little surreal. It's just a proposal. We will await your reaction in this regard. I come back to my question on line 44. The terms of the problem are clear. It's an important line between Verviers and Spa. Spa is a spa, tourist and student town, while Verviers connects Liège and then Brussels for the people who work there. It's not commonplace. I was interested in the evolution of the number of travellers on line 44: on average 1,414 travellers per day in 2011, 1,258 travellers in 2012 and 1,344 in 2013. The attendance is therefore important and I just wait for you to confirm for the umpteenth time – when it is done in a firm and definitive manner, I will not come back to it again – the maintenance and therefore the non-injury of line 44. I conclude my speech with line 42 between Liège and Luxembourg. This line consists of 160 km, an important axis in mobility between Belgium, Germany and Luxembourg. As around all the lines, an entire activity has been created and many people have found and still find their jobs there. This line has been physically designed for mixed transport - passengers and goods. It is necessary to consider the future by keeping this approach of mixed transport which could demonstrate its profitability and its need for subsistence. Minister, you know the questions because they always come back. Do you confirm the maintenance, maintenance and sustainability of these lines in the short and medium term?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have therefore confirmed my remarks since the beginning of this committee. I made it clear that these were just rumors. I would point out that the management of the infrastructure and the maintenance of the network is the responsibility of Infrabel and that SNCB's new transport plan, which will apply from 14 December, still provides for an offer similar to the current offer relating to the frequencies of railway services on lines 42 (Liège – Gouvy) and 44 (Verviers – Spa). While the strategy of a public undertaking must also be based on non-financial criteria, it must nevertheless be taken into account. No public enterprise, no municipality or even any household can live in the long term by making more expenditure than revenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u75	Madam Minister, thank you for the accuracy of your answer, but I would add that the new transport plan has still changed the daily hours: trains in the morning hours have been removed. It cannot therefore be said that nothing has been changed. Some people now have to use their car to take the train to Theux. That is why an emerging concern is normal, minister. Over the past two years, the three stations – Pépinster, Theux and Spa – have been closed to the public. These public buildings remain heated and lit, but nothing happens. The door remains closed, but it is possible to look inside. This type of management may seem somewhat surreal on the part of the public authorities. Although it is not appropriate to spend more than we gain, of course, we will remain extremely vigilant about these lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u76	Madam President, Minister, I would like to know the policy that you are going to put in place or that you are going to pursue regarding unfortunate suicides that have occurred on SNCB's books. Recently, newspapers have reported many cases, especially in the province of Liège. This is not a new development since in 2013, 163 acts of despair took place along the tracks, 95 of which led to the death of the person. Last year, your predecessor put in place a plan to fight suicides, using thermal detection cameras placed at strategic locations in the network. Minister, what is the status of this plan? These cameras were to be tested in West Flanders, where the most incidents occurred. After evaluation, the system had to be extended. Where are we? Do you intend to implement additional measures to avoid such incidents? While it is not possible to prevent access to lanes throughout the network, enhanced security measures can probably be put in place to deter anyone from accessing them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u77	Madam Minister, I have already put a number of questions to your predecessor on the same subject. Those replies showed that on-road suicide attempts to SNCB cost an average of EUR 563 000 per year. The costs relate to damage to trains and tracks and sometimes also to delays caused by the trains. SNCB can sometimes recover the costs through insurance or inheritance, sometimes it does not. In my question I mentioned the number of files in the years 2011 and 2012. I won't repeat that data now. How much was the financial loss for SNCB in 2013 as a result of such accidents? How many accidents did a claim for damages be filed? What amount were we talking about? How much was recovered? Can you also give an up-to-date state of affairs for the years 2011 and 2012? Could you briefly explain the policy on recovery? Will there be any changes compared to your predecessor's reply on 5 June 2013?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u78	The procedure for recovering the damage is the same as in 2013. No adjustment is currently envisaged. SNCB sends a first letter to the deceased's relatives to obtain the information of the insurer civil liability covering the victim or the data of the notary or the person in charge of managing the inheritance. It only does this when the information is not given spontaneously by the victim's family. If the next of kin does not respond to the first letter, it may be considered on a case-by-case basis to send a second letter, paying attention to the tone of the rappelling letter. If the correspondence with the family remains without effect, SNCB will put an end to the recovery procedure against the next of kin. If the correspondence is answered by the family or notary in charge of the estate and there is no liability insurer, SNCB shall continue to recover the damage after assessing the elements obtained. If there is an insurer civil liability, the recovery procedure will continue with the insurer. If the insurer refuses on the basis of a contractual clause, SNCB shall either initiate proceedings against the insurer or proceed with recovery of the damage to the survivors after assessing the elements obtained. When the notary in charge of the inheritance contacts SNCB spontaneously to ask for the amount of the damage to be integrated into the liabilities of the inheritance, SNCB informs him. Mrs Matz, I will have you present a note containing all the figures concerning the breakdown of deaths for the years 2011, 2012 and 2013 as well as the origins of the different types of accidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u79	Madam President, Madam Minister, statistics are interesting even if they are not particularly rewarding. That said, that was not the scope of my question. A number of pilot measures including a range of security measures had been proposed by your predecessor, particularly with regard to Flanders. Has this plan been resumed with a view to preventing a number of suicides, knowing that it is not possible to secure the entire network? The statistics are good, but you haven't answered my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u80	Madam Secretary, The Belief of Limburg reported on 9 November that a security officer of Securail was injured in the capture and overpowering of a metal thief on the tracks in Zolder. Such an incident naturally raises questions about the safety in and around the stations, in particular about the safety in Limburg as far as I am concerned. Safety people have to intervene on average three times a day in the event of problems with junkies, drunks or homeless people. Metal thefts are also common. According to SNCB's Corporate Security Service figures, these account for 20% of the crime phenomena registered by them. It is not surprising that these things also lead to a feeling of insecurity among travellers. For example, a survey of 3 000 passengers shows that 30% feel unsafe in Hasselt's station environment and deliberately avoids certain places. Of those interviewed, more than 60% of drug dealers, drunks or hang-young people are bothered. Nevertheless, Limburg can only count on 8 safety people out of a total of over 500. That is, of course, too little to guarantee 24 hours a day for safety in and around the stations. As a result of this shortage, Hasselt is the only city centre in Belgium where there is no 24-hour surveillance by Securail. Between 10:00 and 6:00 p.m. there are no security personnel present. In the other Limburg city centre, Genk, that permanence exists. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Firstly, why does Hasselt have fewer security people than the other city centres? What objective parameters are used to distribute the number of security personnel between the different stations? Secondly, how is coordination on the ground between the railway police and Securail? Can the shortage of security personnel from Securail in Limburg be overcome by a reinforced presence of the railway police? Thirdly, what measures are being taken against the nuisance in and around the Hasselt station? Has there been an evaluation of the project Station 2020, which aims to improve the quality of life and the safety of the station environment? Finally, what will be the impact of the savings on the safety situation in and around the stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u81	Madam President, SNCB's security services are territorially divided into five districts and are thus based on the operational territorial division of SNCB. Together with the brigades Antwerpen, Leuven and Mechelen, Hasselt is part of the northeast district. The northwest district, with the brigades Ghent, Kortrijk, Bruges and Denderleeuw, is organized in the same way. In the brigades Antwerp and Ghent is working in a system of 24 hours and 7 days at 7. In the other brigades there are 7 to 7 days working between 6 hours and 14 hours and between 14 hours and 22 hours. For this purpose, the latter brigades have a framework of eight people, which allows an organisation of two performances per day by two security officers. That is also the case in the Hasselt brigade. Coordination and cooperation in the field between the police and the security services of the SNCB-Securail is without problems. Consultations are held on a regular basis and in the event of urgent cases there is immediate contact. In consultation with the railway police, agreements were made whereby the railway police, alternatingly, ensures the performance from 6 hours to 14 hours or from 14 hours to 22 hours based on the available capacity. The problems that may arise in the evening hours and night hours around the Hasselt station usually occur outside the station and are related to the presence of the night shops and nightlife venues. This is a matter of local police powers. As a result of this problem, the project Station 2025 was signed on 9 October 2013, a collaboration between the various partners working together on crime, nuisance and liveability phenomena at Hasselt station. The strategic objectives are to ensure the safety of citizens, namely customers, traders and staff, to increase the level of objective security in the station environment, to increase the quality of life in the station environment and to develop partnerships between the actors concerned. From the project Station 2025 three working groups were set up, namely a working group of night shops, a working group of nuisances and a working group of nuisances for young people. Following the reform of the SNCB Group in 2013, the safety remains a priority of SNCB. The Royal Decree of 11 December 2013, Article 11, makes it clear that the legislator pays particular attention to this as part of the public service contracts granted to SNCB. The approach to safety issues in stations, trains and railway lines will therefore be consolidated in strategic policy planning in the light of the negotiations on the management contract between the State and SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u82	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for your support for measures that guarantee the safety of the traveller and deal with the nuisance. This requires continued attention. You made a clear reference to this in your policy statement. I will of course continue to follow from my background to what extent Limburg is treated in the same way as the other provinces. I have heard a number of good elements, in particular that the cooperation between Securail and the railway police can fill a number of gaps, and the project Station 2020 will undoubtedly come to good conclusions, subject to continued follow-up and evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u83	Madam Minister, around July this year Mr Jo Cornu announced that he would make concrete work on wireless internet or a reinforcement of the 4G signal on trains. This will enable SNCB to respond to a question that has been alive for a long time. In several of our neighbouring countries commuters can already use Wi-Fi on the train for a longer time. That is true in France and the Netherlands, also on the Thalys trains. How far are SNCB's concrete plans in this context? Do you have an idea of the possible time frame and the investment costs? Is it intended to offer free Wi-Fi? In neighbouring countries, the system is not always an undivided success. The signal sometimes falls away, the connection is sometimes slow, the network gets overloaded because of its popularity. How do you think you can proactively avoid such problems? To throw the bat into the hive: does wireless internet actually make sense today, now that more and more people have mobile internet?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u84	Madam Secretary, your predecessor indicated at the beginning of this year that SNCB was studying wireless internet on the train. What's the progress on this study? Is there any idea of the investments involved? What lessons can be drawn from foreign examples such as those of the Netherlands and Denmark, to which reference was made?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u85	SNCB is planning a pilot project with Wi-Fi on the train from the second quarter of 2015. Various technological solutions for the internet on the train will be evaluated. In particular, SNCB wants to ensure that the chosen platform is sufficiently performing to improve passenger satisfaction. In this context, SNCB has already assessed the positive and negative aspects of the solutions on the external rail networks. As the Internet service on the train abroad is systematically faced with important quality problems, resulting in dissatisfied travellers, it is essential to take the necessary time to develop its own test project. It is true that the performance in our neighbouring countries is not always as good. In the Netherlands, for example, the rail passenger is clearly not satisfied with the capacity of internet access. The NS also pays very high data costs to the telecom operators. This is mainly due to the fact that good coverage along the railway lines is not available everywhere. SNCB examines these aspects together with the mobile operators, and also evaluates other slopes, including the use of Infrabel's pylons and glass fibre network. The mobile internet on the train suffers from weakening of the radio signal in the train, due to the effect of Faraday's cage. After all, the metal cage of the carriage weakens the mobile signal. Moreover, the coverage along the railway lines is not always very good. SNCB's aim is to connect trains permanently to the Internet. SNCB has had talks with colleagues from the foreign railways and concludes that there are no health risks. However, during the pilot project, SNCB will measure the radiation and assess whether it can have an impact on health. SNCB met with the organization Limited radiation a few months ago. They considered the consultations to be very satisfactory. SNCB has undertaken to seriously investigate the idea of coupes without Wi-Fi as part of this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u86	Madam Minister, I am naturally pleased that the pilot project will take place in the second quarter of 2015. Of course, this is also being evaluated. You must look at where we are going, but you are of course absolutely right when you say that the final goal must be a good offer. This is essential in order to avoid that passengers are dissatisfied. In that respect, I agree with you 100%. I note that, as part of our rail transport, we will follow a number of initiatives at Flemish level which already include testing of the Internet wirelessly in a number of trams and buses. I hear a clear ambition, and I am pleased to hear it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u87	I would like to endorse the positive response of the honourable Member. I think it is important that a pilot project be launched. You said this will be done in the second quarter of next year. For many train passengers it is a daily struggle to be able to work on the train and use the internet. I voted in favour. Let us all hope that this project works well and that the wireless Internet will be able to run smoothly in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u88	Madam President, Minister, the 2013 annual report of the railway passenger ombud service was recently published. That report contains two criticisms. A first point concerns cooperation between the SNCB Group and the ombudsperson, in particular with regard to cases of irregularities. A second point concerns the services of the Group to travellers who submit an application or a complaint. The SNCB Group usually reacts very slowly to this and also adheres very strictly to regulatory orthodoxy. This has led to four specific questions, Madam Minister. First, since 1 March 2013, the SNCB Group has denied the competence of the ombudsdienst for complaints about findings of irregularity. Those complaints accounted for just over a fifth of the total number of complaints received in 2013. How do you propose to unblock this tense situation? Secondly, the ombudsmen note that SNCB Group rejects 90% of its opinions. This percentage is much higher than in other sectors such as telecommunications, energy or financial services. This, of course, raises questions about the usefulness of the ombuds service. What is the reason for this high percentage? Thirdly, there is room for improvement in the services provided by the SNCB Group to the traveller. SNCB reacts rather slowly, usually after about 40 days instead of the planned deadline of 18 days. Strict application of the transport conditions causes a great deal of annoyance. Customer satisfaction has also been stagnating for several years. In view of the liberalisation of domestic passenger transport, how does SNCB intend to improve this service? Finally, according to the ombudsdienst, there are different transport conditions for train tickets purchased online than for tickets purchased at a ticket counter. For example, an unused ticket purchased online could not be refunded or exchanged. This sounds rather illogical in times when more and more windows are closed and online purchases are stimulated. Does this provision still apply? Why do different rules apply that depend on how tickets are purchased?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u89	Mr President, as I replied to a similar question from Mr Daniel Senesael earlier, SNCB and the railway passenger ombud service do not interpret the law governing the ombud service in the same way. Before I speak on the matter, I would first like to speak on the matter to both parties concerned. I will then work out a solution which defends the interests of the disadvantaged travellers and avoids costly procedures resulting from abuse by a small group of fraudsters. In 2014, SNCB indeed rejected 144 out of 164 Ombudsmen's opinions, representing almost 90% of the total. This is considerably more than in telecommunications, financial services and energy services. I suspect that the difference in the interpretation of the legislation by SNCB and the ombudsperson, as well as the tense relationship that has arisen between the two parties, partly explains this difference in figures. I will therefore inform you of this during my consultations with both sides. SNCB's customer service aims to comply with the legal deadlines and to provide its customers and the ombuds service with a timely correct response. Nevertheless, your assessment is correct, in particular that the proposed 18-day period is often exceeded. Moreover, in the course of 2013, the ombudsdienst sent no less than 1 176 reminders to SNCB. In fact, SNCB's general transport conditions still distinguish between tickets purchased online and tickets purchased at a counter or at a vending machine. The former is not refundable or exchangeable. The second kind is. According to SNCB, online tickets are more easily susceptible to fraud because they can be printed in multiple copies: a first copy to be presented to the train supervisor during the check on the train and a second one to be offered at a counter in order to request reimbursement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u90	Madam President, Minister, I understand that you acknowledge the problem and I am pleased that you are prepared to bring both sides together. In the light of a customer-friendly rail supply, we absolutely need to change things in this area. The customer service strives for the legal deadlines, but does not always succeed. We must think about a number of processes within the company in order to do better in this area. In the light of the forthcoming liberalisation, it is absolutely important to organise a customer-friendly business. As far as the distinction between tickets is concerned, one is interchangeable and the other is not, because they are fraud-prone, of course I fully understand that. In 2014 we must be able to develop a number of techniques to avoid that problem. It seems to me, given today's digital world, unheard of that online tickets are not interchangeable.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u91	Madam President, Minister, the Walloon Brabant is preparing, like all other provinces, to intensify its public transit offers with the arrival of the ER. In order to be able to respond to the growing supply and, in some cases, to renovate the existing infrastructure, a great deal of work has been planned in recent years. Some work has already been done, but others still need to be finalized. Minister, can you give me an inventory of the work that has already been done and of the work that is still under way? For the latter, can you tell me if, for each project, the deadlines will be met or if extensions are required?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the work of the RER on line 161, Infrabel has completed all the civil engineering work that can be carried out without altering the existing track layout, with the exception of a construction site still in operation. Civil engineering works include the creation of platforms to accommodate the third and fourth lanes, the renewal of bridges and the adaptation of roads. The only civil engineering project still under way is at the stretch between the Rixensart station and the Profondsart stop. According to the latest information, it is expected to end in October 2015. This date incorporates the difficulties encountered in the execution of the work. The first catenary portals for the four lanes have already been laid on various sections. To the north of Ottignies, road works are under way to allow trains to be moved to the cleaning and maintenance facility. This connection is scheduled for October 2015. The work of the RER on line 124 is, on the other hand, less advanced. The civil engineering work is completed on a continuous stretch between the south of Waterloo Station and the ring motorway at Braine-l'Alleud. The works of art at the Nivelles station are also completed. This resulted in the removal of the Nivelles railway station crossing in November 2012. Currently, the substation in Waterloo is in the process of being completed. Construction of the building and its access road will be completed in November 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u93	Minister, thank you for all the clarifications you have provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u94	Question No 652 by Mr Veli Yüksel is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 657 by Mrs Daphné Dumery and 826 by Mrs Karin Temmerman were postponed at the request of Mrs Dumery and with the agreement of Mrs Temmerman. Debates of the European Parliament 661 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u95	Madam President, Madam Minister, rumors must never be believed. Nevertheless, it is my responsibility that the deletion of the so-called "large family" card should be considered. I insist that quotation marks be placed around this name. As you know, this card allows all members of a family with three or more children to benefit from a 50% discount on the SNCB network. This substantial reduction makes this card particularly important in terms of purchasing power and removing it would be another brake on SNCB's attractiveness. Minister, can you tell me whether the deletion of the large family card is an option envisaged by the SNCB at this stage, including in the methodology by March? As you asked me in the budget debate, can you answer me now and tell me whether this rumor is valid or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u96	Madam President, Mr Cheron, this has never been discussed in the SNCB. Several avenues for greater flexibility and simplification of the tariff range are currently under consideration within SNCB. As I also told you, a new direction was created: a commercial and marketing direction. Everything is under discussion today
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u97	Minister, I note that there is no candid assertion that this is a true rumour. I therefore remain concerned about this response as regards the follow-up to be given in the context of the planned reductions and savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u98	Madam Minister, the new transport plan has a very profound impact on many passengers. You'll probably get a lot of questions about that. For Gentbrugge it's dramatic. In the station of Gentbrugge, a submunicipality of Ghent, a station that is part of the suburban network, which we all consider so important, there are now 64 stops. That number is halved; there are now 38. That is because especially the IC train between Ghent-Sint-Pieters and Antwerp will no longer stop in Gentbrugge. It seems a small adjustment if the IC train no longer stops there, but the change has a lot of consequences. As a result, only one train per hour stops. A train per hour is really a problem for school-based youth. Students have to leave very early or they'll be late for school. The strange thing is that the train does pass, but doesn't stop there. We've timed it and you can check it out in the tables. Whether the train stops in Gentbrugge or not, it runs along the Ghent-Sint-Pieters-Gent-Dampoort route, on which Ghentbrugge lies, for the same length. The trains that do not stop in Gentbrugge, do as long over the route as the trains that do stop there. It is therefore completely incomprehensible that this drastic intervention should take place. Gentbrugge lies on the intersection between the E17 and the E40. Those highways are, in other words, around the corner. So one will take the car again and drive on the highway. I believe that goes against what SNCB itself wants and, I believe, against what the government wants, namely fewer motor vehicles on the road. Once again, the change has a lot of consequences and nobody understands why this intervention happened. Madam Secretary, for what reason did SNCB decide not to stop the Ghent-Antwerp IC train at Gentbrugge station? Will SNCB review the service at the station? Or will you ask? How do you reconcile the drastic reduction of services with the possible development of a regional express network in Ghent? If we cut down that rail link, it is really impossible to build the express network further. Do you support the question from the city of Ghent to SNCB for the development of a Ghent suburban network, or has the suburban network already been referred to the Greek calendar? I would like to know, because that obviously has a huge impact on the circulation plans of the city of Ghent.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u99	The purpose of the new transport plan is to provide a structured offer, with comfortable connections and sufficient stopping time in the stations to allow passengers to get on and off. In this context, it is also not intended to stop at smaller stations with the IC trains, which quickly connect the major cities. The passengers from the smaller stations should drive into a larger hub, where they can switch to a further destination. The IC trains must run at a high commercial speed between the major cities of the country, such as Ghent and Antwerp. The speed can only be guaranteed if the number of stops of an IC train between Ghent-Sint-Pieters and Antwerp is limited. The IC trains will not stop in Gentbrugge, but they will stop in the two main stations, Gent-Sint-Pieters and Gent-Dampoort. However, the station of Gentbrugge is an important city pole of the city of Ghent. The station of Gentbrugge must therefore be efficiently connected to the entire city, with the station of Gent-Sint-Pieters ensuring connections to the whole country and to the suburb of Ghent. In accordance with the government agreement of 10 October 2014, SNCB started to study a regional express network in the suburban area of Ghent, with a suburban railway supply from and to and around Ghent. This suburban railway supply, integrated into a GEN concept, can be compared with the German and Swiss models called S-bahn and characterised by precise geographical coverage and sufficiently high frequency. The fact that IC trains no longer stop at Gentbrugge is a step towards a gradual adjustment of a global railway supply with a strong and attractive suburban component. The new train supply will be monitored intensively in the first few months and, where necessary and possible, adjustments to the supply will be made. The structure of the transport plan does not allow any change to the new services in the short term. As far as the impact of the new transport plan on Gentbrugge station is concerned, SNCB has provided me with a detailed and technical explanation. I'll get it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u100	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. I do not agree, especially since there is no difference even in the timetable between the trains that do not stop and the trains that do stop. Gentbrugge is located just between Ghent-Sint-Pieters and Ghent-Dampoort, so that one cannot achieve high speed. One also drives right through the city. A high speed between Gent-Sint-Pieters and Gent-Dampoort stations is impossible. You can't say the IC trains are losing time. That's just not true. Even on your own tables it is very clear that that is not true. If you want to enter a suburban offer, Gentbrugge is just one of the necessary nodes. The positive thing about your answer, however, is that you are still holding the door, albeit at a crack. The effects of the new transport plan will be examined and the plan may be revised. I'll take your word for it. I will certainly come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u101	Madam President, Minister, on February 1, 2015, SNCB intends to introduce the one-time surcharge of €7 for any ticket purchased on a train. So far, this is EUR 3 if the attendant is notified and EUR 12.5 if he is not. This measure would serve – we can understand – to reduce the discussions that regularly lead to attacks on the attendant. Yet, many argue this measure, particularly through the press, arguing that it will only increase the discontent of users, especially those in good faith assimilated as fraudsters. While more and more windows are closing or reducing their opening hours, other systems are flourishing to allow users to acquire their transport title (i.e. smartphone app, online shopping, etc.).). Automates are also available at all stations. However, if they are equipped with a money exchange which allows a payment of up to 20 euros, there is no possibility of introducing banknotes there, not to mention that these devices sometimes fail. This is why, as with the other solutions mentioned, it is often necessary to have a bank account or even a credit card. Do you not think, Madam Minister, that this could create discrimination against the youngest and most disadvantaged? On the other hand, the user who buys his or her one-way train to get to the nearby town or village will have to pay an amount more or less similar to the taxi price. Do you think this promotes the use of rail? Finally, many users are not or are poorly informed about the various possibilities for purchasing tickets. Is a publicity campaign planned to make them aware of these emerging solutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u102	On 4 March 211, the Board of Directors of SNCB took a decision in principle on the tariff on board - a uniform supplement of 7 euros had been mentioned at that meeting. On 7 June 2013, it was decided that before this supplement was introduced, sufficient automatons and a communication campaign were first required. Finally, at the Management Committee meeting on 8 September 2014, it was decided that this €7 supplement would apply from 1 February 2015. From that date, any passenger purchasing a ticket on board a train will automatically have to pay a uniform surcharge of 7 euros compared to the ordinary ticket price without the train attendant being able to cancel it. The passenger must normally be in possession of a valid transport document when boarding the train. To do this, there are several possibilities for purchasing, whether through the ticket counter, an ATM, the mobile app, the online ticket and others. In recent years, SNCB has extended these alternatives widely. A new rule of sale on board trains will result in a uniform way of working, the same way each time and for all train attendants. The aim is in no way to put travellers without tickets on the same footing as fraudsters. On the other hand, the aim is to make the traveller aware, to make him/her feel responsible for preparing his/her journey. With regard to vending machines, it is correct to state that no payment per ticket is possible and that the cash function remains limited to 20 euros. This function will be extended to 35 euros in the near future. This should be largely enough for a one-way ticket at the maximum first-class fare. For example, a one-day Go Pass for young people costs only 6 euros. It is well below the current limit of 20 euros. As an alternative to the repeated purchase of a ticket for short trips of about 15 kilometers, the Key Card can be offered. This is a card of 10 journeys to 2 euros per second class journey, which is well below the price of a taxi race. In recent weeks, SNCB has already carried out a major awareness campaign aimed at promoting the various sales channels, so that the traveller can buy his or her ticket in advance. In addition, the information campaign on this fare on board trains will start on 16 January via the following media: press releases, mailings, customer files, Twitter, website, advertising, display and video screens at stations, announcements at stations and on board trains. If, in spite of this, a traveller still has to buy a ticket on the train, he will at the same time receive a memo card containing the various possibilities of buying a ticket in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u103	Madam Minister, I thank you for these clarifications, in particular for the expansion of the possibilities of the apparatus. It might be interesting to have an aircraft in the first or last car of each train, for example. Indeed, the train station device may be defective or inoperative and the train controller is not supposed to know. Also place one and conduct an information campaign indicating that any passenger without a valid ticket will be able to take one from the first or last car, would solve a lot of problems, if it is possible to install aircraft at a specific location on the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u104	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you today about the railways along the railways. Some are under the management of Infrabel and their condition sometimes leaves something to be desired. The services in charge of their maintenance work well to fill the holes, but the coating does not last for more than a few weeks; I have precise examples. This raises a number of concerns. In the first place, this poor condition may affect the intervention of the safety services in the event of a problem on the tracks, whether in the event of a suicide or a rail accident. The other concern is that these roads are sometimes also used by private individuals who perform manoeuvres with their vehicles, to get into their garages most often. In doing so, if the landings are not stabilized, the surface is unstable or missing, manoeuvres can have dramatic consequences, given the sometimes large spills, especially in the vicinity of road bridges passing over the tracks. Madam Minister, in addition to the willingness of her services to respond to calls from the residents of these lanes, can you tell us what Infrabel's policy is for the maintenance of lanes under her responsibility? Can you inform us about the material and financial resources in general used for this purpose, both in terms of monitoring their state and in terms of reparations in accordance with the rules of the art, and about their future development? Finally, can you assure us of the guarantee of the proper completion of the work concerned and of their stability in the duration, the only guarantees of the safety of the users to which you are particularly attentive, the roads in question and the passengers of the SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, service roads along railway tracks can be divided into two categories: roads outside the Infrabel domain, whose maintenance and management remain the responsibility of the owner of the road, and roads on the Infrabel estate, which aim to allow the circulation of service vehicles and machinery for the maintenance of infrastructure and are maintained in such a way as to ensure their circulability. Infrabel may grant passage permits in the form of an occupation on a precarious basis to the residents who request them. If road maintenance or adaptations are requested by these residents, it is up to them to carry out them at their expense. There is no budget item dedicated to this road maintenance activity along the tracks; these services are directed to the general operating budget. This type of maintenance is carried out according to the needs of the different boroughs. Often, the repair of a site is used to carry out this work, or the completion and availability of mechanical means to limit costs. It is therefore difficult to quantify this particular budget in the overall costs of a project. On the other hand, Infrabel tells us again that these are not roads but roads for the maintenance of the infrastructure. Those belonging to Infrabel constitute private property on which all circulation is in principle prohibited. Infrabel is not intended to make land available to individuals so that they can carry out their manoeuvres there, as the question mentions, or to finance work for that purpose. As far as safety is concerned, it is the first priority of Infrabel and of the entire railway infrastructure: tracks, signs and installations are checked at least twice a month. If work is needed for a safety issue, Infrabel obviously does it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u106	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for her response. In some cases, the reality is quite different. It's not just about "doing maneuvers." When garages located at the back of houses are on these tracks in question, I do not see how, in fact, we could do without them. What would be useful if it did not cost Infrabel anything is for an agreement to be drawn up between Infrabel and the user of the garage and thus of the road. I have, for example, a case where there are about fifteen garages. One could very well imagine a convention coordinated by the commune, so that there is some kind of intervention, rental, provision, for a tarmac to be established. If tomorrow, what I could understand, Infrabel would now forbid any passage, it would prohibit the use of garages, which would not be the purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u107	Madam President, Minister, I have already questioned you about pilot projects on self-driving cars. There's some movement there. Brussels Minister for Mobility, Mr Pascal Smet, recently stated that he was in favour of pilot projects with self-driving cars and earlier also expressed his Flemish colleague's desire to start pilot projects quickly. However, this requires an adjustment of the regulatory framework. You indicated last time that your administration was working on the necessary adjustments and that you first wanted to consult with the Regions to see if there was any interest in them. We now know that the Flemish Region and the Brussels-Capital Region are certainly interested in this. Perhaps the Walloon Region is also interested, but I must confess that I did not inform. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. What is the state of your administration's investigation of the adjustments needed to the regulatory framework for such a pilot project? You indicated last time that you would contact the Regions. Have those contacts been there? Have any concrete agreements been made? What were the conclusions of the European Commission working group on 17 November, to which you referred last time? Are there any plans to adapt European legislation in order to facilitate these pilot projects? I put the emphasis on this because many countries start with it and I would not want Belgium to be left behind. I believe that we need to get on this train, because it is about the car of the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u108	The research is in a preparatory phase. It is also appropriate to carry out this exercise on the basis of an application for a pilot project, which I have not yet received. Depending on the degree of autonomy envisaged, legal adjustments will be required. As I said in an answer, technical developments have not yet advanced so far that fully self-driving vehicles can already be driven on public roads. The first initiative is to set up a working group, which is coordinated by my administration. The department concerned prepares for the effective start of the working group at the beginning of 2015. One of the conclusions of the UNECE workshop in my administration was that technology is evolving gradually, with different levels of vehicle autonomy. From the point of view of road safety, this evolution is welcomed. A drastic reduction in the number of road accidents is possible. Apart from technological developments and legal adjustments, it will also be necessary to improve the acceptance of these systems by drivers. The importance of an integrated approach and a sufficiently flexible regulatory framework was therefore highlighted. UNECE will work on the definition of ITS and the different stages of autonomous driving in order to harmonise regulation from a uniform conceptual framework. The Vienna Convention, among other things, is under consideration. During the workshop, the European Commission representative proposed the C-ITS deployment platform. The letter C refers to cooperative systems. Self-driving vehicles are among the cooperative systems in which vehicles are connected to each other and/or the infrastructure. The platform aims to analyse all obstacles and solutions, both at the technical, legal, organisational and administrative level and at the policy level. A note from the European Commission should follow from this in early 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u109	Madam Secretary, I hear you're working on it, but you're not very convinced. You say that there is still a great deal to be done and that technical progress is not yet being made. However, I can tell you that pilot projects are currently underway in several cities in the Netherlands. So it's not like it can't be done. In the United States, too, there is already a lot further. But let us look only at Europe, and then the pilot projects in the Netherlands will be eligible. In Belgium, many universities are involved, including iMinds, the former IBBT in Ghent. IMinds is an institution that is just working on this technology, but there is no legislative framework for its further development. I would therefore ask you, if possible, to speed up this process. This will certainly be further developed in the future. Now we have a bit of a head start in these matters and it would be a pity to lose that lead because we do not have the necessary legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u110	Madam Minister, my question concerns the classification of electric bicycles, in particular the distinction between ordinary electric bicycles that run up to 25 km/h and so-called speed pedals with a maximum speed between 25 and 45 km/h. The European Commission has already issued a regulation on this subject but it will not enter into force until 1 January 2016. It is therefore currently unclear which rules apply to these different categories of electric bicycles. In response to a previous question, your predecessor said that a speed pedelec should be assimilated to a moped class B. This requires a driving licence, wearing a trap helmet, having a motor insurance, registering the bike and a license plate. This would also mean that a speed pedelec should not be used on a hunting path or on other cycling routes reserved for class A cyclists and mopeds, which cannot be the intention. Electric bicycles lower the threshold to use the bike more for utilitarian travel such as commuting. I think we should have sufficient regard for this new form of movement. On the website of the FPS Mobility it can be read that bicycles, equipped with electric auxiliary motor for stair support, whose drive power is gradually reduced and finally interrupted, should not be registered and therefore should not have a license plate. This is contrary to the view that they should be treated as a moped class B. The definition on the website of the FPS Mobility is not the same as that in the Road Code. The conclusion is therefore that there is a great deal of uncertainty, including in the field of insurance. Hence my request for more clarification, Madam Secretary. Do you think that a speed pedelec is not a bicycle, but should be seen as a moped class B? What is the status of the classification of electric bicycles? Can you tell us today for the different types of electric bicycles what the categorization is and what the associated obligations are? Which articles in the Road Code is this based on? Was a summary table drawn up to provide clarity to consumers, sellers and insurers? One insurer regards this as a bicycle, the other as a moped. There is an urgent need to clarify this. Have any penalties been issued for offences involving electric bicycles, such as not wearing a helmet or having a driver's license when this is mandatory? Are there any figures available on the number and severity of accidents involving electric bicycles, speed pedelecs and e-bikes with an auxiliary electric motor that can run up to 45 km/h? If not, can this be registered in any way in the future? This is a phenomenon that will only know about enlargement. We need to monitor the safety implications. This requires statistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u111	Both the current European Directive 2002/24 and the new Regulation 168/2013, which replaces the European Directive from 1 January 2016, provide that an electric bicycle with pedal support up to 45 km/h is a moped. At present, according to the Road Code, a pedal-supported bicycle with a maximum power of 0,25 kilowatt is considered to be a bicycle, i.e. a bicycle, with a gradual reduction in the power of the drive and is finally interrupted at a speed of 25 km/h. Drivers of such vehicles must respect the rules applicable to cyclists. Bicycles with stair support that do not meet the specified conditions, and electric bicycles without pedal support are mopeds. In this case, drivers must comply with the rules applicable to mopeds. My administration is now looking, in consultation with the Regions and in consultation with Belgian and European authorities and interest groups such as sellers and importers of electric bicycles and the insurance sector, at which aspects of the traffic rules it may be advisable to compare certain types of electric bicycles with a bicycle. It is only when this is clear that an overview can be made of the new situation. No specific figures on electric bicycles are yet available. As I have already replied to an equivalent question, which you have asked, the detailed wording of the terms "cycle" and "electric bicycle" of more than or less than 25 km/h shall be formulated in the Working Party on the adaptation of accident statistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u112	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I will not respond to this in view of the time left to deal with some other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u113	Mr President, you yourself have just asked Minister Borsus about this. Madam Minister, yesterday we read that a solution was found for the replacement of the Fyra train. However, there is still uncertainty about the position of the Dutch. Have all the problems been solved? Or is there still a kink in the cable?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u114	Madam Secretary, I can only endorse that. I just have the additional question of the state of play on the next step. Since the disappearance of the Fyra, we have been in a step-by-step scenario where we first came up with an emergency solution for the journey between The Hague and Brussels. From next week, that train will also start to run between Brussels and Amsterdam via the airport. That train's gonna take a pretty long time. A third step is that that train will eventually run over the high-speed lines as of December 2017. I assume that the necessary preparations are already being made for this. Let us hope that all this will be smoother than the Fyra file at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u115	Mr President, SNCB has indeed taken note of the statements made by Secretary of State Mansveld. However, SNCB states that it is not correct that there will be no train between Brussels and Amsterdam on 14 December 2014. As decided at the NS Summit on 18 November 2014, it is planned that the ICE train will run 17 times a day at the start of the new timetable as of 14 December 2014 and will also continue until Amsterdam. The Brussels-The Hague rail link is currently insured 12 times a day. To enable the expansion to sixteen relations per day to Amsterdam, additional carriages have been built by the Dutch Railways and made suitable for that international train service. It was also agreed between SNCB and the NS that the owner of the equipment will present the file of the Railway Safety and Interoperability Service. On 27 November 2014, the DVIS, which in Belgium is required to approve the carriages in question for an extension of the so-called Benelux train to Amsterdam, received the file. Legally, from that date, the DVIS has four months to analyse the file and make a decision. SNCB has no knowledge of any problems and suspects that the DVIS, which is usually very willing, will clear that simple file in the coming days. SNCB expects, in principle, to be able to start on 14 December 2014, as planned. Also for driving via the hsl from December 2016 everything is currently on schedule. In doing so, we are vigilant that the steering carriages to be delivered by the NS should be ready in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u116	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u117	Madam Secretary, I fully support that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u118	Mr President, Madam Minister, I have read about the SNCB Group's 2013-2025 investment plan, SNCB's 2014-2017 Transport Plan and the information on the reduction of the federal government's budgetary resources, which leads me to express my concern about this announced disinvestment, as well as about certain strategic issues for Namurois and southern Belgium. Madam Minister, what about the two international rail connections that Namur, the capital of Wallonia, benefits from, to Paris and to Luxembourg, Strasbourg and Basel, knowing that the Brussels-Luxembourg-Strasbourg link would apparently no longer be possible in the future without breaking the load in Luxembourg? With regard to the Thalys Liège-Namur-Paris, which will be operated by a private operator with predominantly French capital from 1 January 2015, can you assure me that, given this new method of organisation, it will still be possible for the federal government to finance part of the possible operating deficit?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u119	Dear colleague, the Brussels-Luxembourg-Strasbourg-Switzerland route is now served by two EuroCity trains for the Brussels-Luxembourg relationship; 17 ICJ trains and 3 daily IC trains complement this offer. Namur station is served by all these trains. It is true, however, that due to numerous obstacles to its development - long-term infrastructure work on Belgian, Luxembourg and French networks, competition for faster alternative routes offered by adjacent networks, lack of equipment comfort and lack of interest on the part of the Swiss Railways for the continuation of its cooperation in maintaining this relationship, a decrease in regularity - the SNCB is required to consider a complete overhaul of the project. SNCB has therefore turned to the CFLs to jointly examine the concrete solutions that can be implemented in order to prevent Belgian and Grand-Ducal intercapital traffic from yielding even more shares to the car. After analysing the current data on the use of this line and the conclusions of a possible market study to identify future demand, SNCB will decide on a new service that cannot, however, be proposed before the new transport plan of December 2017. There is good reason to believe that Namur Station will not be overlooked in this assessment. The new railway undertaking operating the Thalys train is expected to be established on 31 March 2015 and not on 1 January 2015. The possibility of participating in the financing of the Liège-Paris relationship via Namur, Charleroi and Mons will depend both on the terms of the future management contract between the Belgian State and SNCB, as well as on Thalys' decision to continue this relationship or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u120	Madam Secretary, what are we going to do? Are we gonna stop here?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u121	Mr President, the following questions can be asked quickly. Do you have to leave, Madam Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u122	I think it's a little loud! I'm the minister, I'm the one who has to be here, when Members aren't even here to ask their questions. Their questions are so important that they are not even present to ask them! I hope that this will be repeated to them!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u123	Madam Minister, on the basis of the same observation as the previous question, I would like to ask you about the problem of diffuse traffic. I wish I knew what was going on. Indeed, we find, with regret, a certain form of disengagement from SNCB Logistics for this type of traffic. Do you think that it is possible for SNCB Logistics to re-examine its commercial policy on diffuse traffic and that the federal government should ensure that it is adequately supported in a context where many SMEs may have an interest in the delivery of goods by rail, provided that they have a quality service?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u124	Mr President, since its commercialization, SNCB Logistics has had to guarantee and profitable diffuse traffic as the sole private provider of this service in Belgium. In previous years, SNCB Logistics has already made enormous efforts to reduce the systematic costs of diffuse traffic, a service long considered as a public service mission rendered to businesses and ports without being profitable. SNCB Logistics has, for example, developed an essential network for the industrial fabric with more than 200 service points in the three Regions of the country for single cars. These efforts have contributed to a significant optimisation of the profitability and quality of the supply of diffuse traffic and to a significant improvement in the overall financial result. Given the importance of diffuse traffic for Belgian and even European industry, as well as for ports, and taking into account the potential of this sustainable mode of transport, SNCB Logistics continues its offer and invests also in the development of this service. Rail transport is handicapped in relation to road transport at various levels: the infrastructure charge (more or less 10% of transport costs, which is far higher than road transport), stricter labour and safety regulations, the high work intensity it requires, heavy investment, fixed costs of diffuse traffic and difficulties of interoperability between different countries. Many countries have put in place the necessary mechanisms to subsidize diffuse and intermodal traffic in order to reduce this structural backwardness and encourage modal shift to rail. A level playing field should be created at other levels: the collaboration of the infrastructure manager Infrabel as well as a clear and proactive European rail policy applied consistently in the Member States. The government agreement provides that the government will pursue a proactive railway policy. Particular attention will be paid in the multiannual investment plan to rail freight infrastructure projects and to the accessibility of economic clusters. In this context, I will make proposals to the government in the coming months for the reasonable continuation of the rail freight support mechanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u125	Mr President, Madam Minister, on the basis of the same criteria, for Infrabel, it seems clear that the priority of investments will remain the continued security of the network. But beyond that, can you assure me that a sufficient level of investment will be maintained across the entire network, with a view, at a minimum, to maintaining its current capacity and level of service? It would not be acceptable for the reduction of resources to take place, for example, at the expense of certain lines where chronic underinvestment would inevitably result in a deterioration in the quality of service, whether commercial speed or punctuality. I am thinking in particular of lines 132 (Charleroi - Couvin), 154-166 (Namur-Dinant-Bertrix) and 43 (Liège-Marloie), which are essential mobility tools in rural areas. At SNCB level, can you also detail the impact of these measures on rolling stock? Furthermore, what about the finalisation of the RER investments on L161 (Brussels-Namur) and the improvement of the infrastructure on L162 (Namur-Luxembourg), within the time frame of the 2013-2025 PPI? Are new postponements planned? As a reminder, the line 161-162 serves 2.25 million inhabitants (one fifth of the national population and almost half of the Wallonia-Brussels axis). With regard to the 2014-2017 transport plan which enters into force in mid-December, will it be evaluated in the year of its implementation, with local forces and users? Could this evaluation lead to recommendations for the next plan to come into effect after 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-10-54-commissie-ic036x.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when revising the next IPP and taking into account the budget cut defined by the government, I will ensure that Infrabel complies with its commitments with regard to the completion of the work of the RSP on line 161 in the budget allocated and within acceptable deadlines. The upgrading of line 161 to four lanes is one of the key works of the RER line and should allow the development of the suburban rail supply on one of the major Wallonia – Brussels routes coming from Namur and via Ottignies. The implementation of SNCB's new transportation plan, scheduled for 14 December 2014, will be closely monitored. As soon as a problem is identified, as an overoccupation, a solution will be considered as far as possible. The observation of the 2014 transport plan will allow these contacts to be integrated during the study of the 2017 transport plan, for which, in particular, a broad consultation will be organised and developed in close collaboration with the regional transport companies.
