ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u1	Mrs. Capoen, are you ready to ask your question? We know you have maternal obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u2	Mr President, I am ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u3	I propose that, pending the arrival of Mr Matz, who was contacted by telephone, Mrs Capoen should be given the floor to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u4	Mr President, I have tabled two questions. I suppose I should start with the first, being No. 115.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u5	You put your first question on the agenda and after the answer you put your next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u6	Mr President, Minister, my first question concerns the payment of pensions for former foreign workers in France, for which the Department of Insurance Retraite Picardie Nord- annually requests the official certificate of life certificate. This is, of course, done in French. In addition, however, a translation into several European languages is always provided for. However, there is no room for a Dutch translation of the text. As a result, thousands of Flemish and Dutch-speaking frontier workers are overlooked and thus their enormous contribution to the French economy. Minister, what steps can you take to avoid this inequality in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u7	Mr President, Mrs Capoen, I fully understand the issue you are raising. The difference in linguistic treatment does not seem to be respectful of the regional identity of the former frontier workers from Flanders. I take note of your concern for the most efficient and understanding communication possible to our fellow countrymen concerned. On the first occasion, my services will address the French authorities to see whether and under what circumstances, apart from the languages mentioned, a Dutch translation can be made. However, the final decision is up to the institution itself. We will contact the French authorities on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u8	Mrs. Capoen, would you like to replicate?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u9	No, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u10	Mr Minister, on 25 October last, twenty-five-year-old Mrs Jabari was executed in Iran by means of the noose. She was arrested in 2007 for the murder of an Iranian man. She stated that she acted in legitimate self-defense because this man wanted to rape her. She put a knife to him herself, but apparently the final murder would have been committed by someone else, being another man. However, according to the court, this could not be proven sufficiently. However, the investigation would have been quite flawed. The woman was tortured several times during her imprisonment. Unfortunately, this execution is not an isolated fact either. This year alone, the counter would be at least 250 executions in Iran. Unfortunately, Mrs. Jabari is just the tip of the iceberg. Violence against women seems to be a fundamental problem in Iran. For example, there have recently been several acid attacks on women due to non-compliance with certain clothing regulations. In addition, I have a number of questions. Although I understand that justice may vary from one country to another, there are so many contradictory indications that it is difficult to talk about the correct course of justice. What is the Belgian Government's position on the execution of this woman? Do you intend to address the Iranian Ambassador on this matter? On the occasion of the European Day and the World Day Against the Death Penalty, you recently sent a press release to the world in which you advocate the abolition of the death penalty worldwide. Belgium should play a privileged role in this with the knowledge of this recent execution and, tout court, the high number of executions in Iran and the violence there on women. What actions can you take in this regard? In October 2011, you replied to a written question that Belgium, as a member of the group of friends of the second optional protocol, will continue to actively support a ratification campaign of the NGO collective. Our country will also continue to systematically raise the issue of the death penalty in its interventions in the UN Human Rights Council's universal periodic review. Which NGOs do you work with internationally for this purpose? Could you also explain some achievements of these ratification campaigns and of the group of friends of the second optional protocol?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u11	Mr President, I am trying to give four answers to four questions. Firstly, in line with the EU Guideline on the Death Penalty, the EU reacted immediately after the news of the execution with a public statement by High Representative Margaret Ashton, in which the EU deeply regrets that a new trial was not allowed, despite doubts about trial. It also expressed its deep concern at the increasing number of executions in Iran, as has been said. The EU also reiterated its position on the death penalty and called on the government to cease all executions and to consider setting a moratorium on the use of the death penalty. Secondly, bilateral contacts with Iran always raise the issue of the death penalty at all levels. This happened recently during the visit of the Belgian Director-General for Bilateral Affairs to Iran. I also raised this with my Iranian colleague during his visit to Brussels. Thirdly, regarding concrete actions by Belgians on executions in Iran, I can tell you that our country intervened on 31 October 2014 during the Universal Periodic Review of Iran. The issue of the death penalty was central to the Belgian intervention. The right to a fair trial has also been addressed. In addition, our country supports the resolutions on the human rights situation in Iran adopted each year by the Human Rights Council and by the United Nations General Assembly. For example, our country supported the resolution adopted by the Human Rights Council in March, which provides for an extension of the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the Human Rights situation. Belgium has also already given its support to the resolution that the General Assembly will adopt later this month on the human rights situation in Iran, which concerns, among other things, the issue of the death penalty and the situation of women in Iran. I repeat that we have also had many bilateral contacts with the same discussion on human rights in Iran. Fourthly, with regard to the ratification campaign for a second optional protocol, Belgium is cooperating with the World Coalition against the Death Penalty, a group of 160 NGOs, orders of lawyers, trade unions, cities and all kinds of other organizations from around the world who are fighting against the death penalty. Amnesty International, Ligue de Droits de l'l'Homme, the International Commission against the Death Penalty and Human Rights are members, for example. Belgium is working with the secretariat of the World Coalition but of course also with Amnesty International and the International Commission against the Death Penalty. The World Coalition has received financial support from Belgium for the ratification campaign for the second optional protocol. There are certainly concrete results already. Although more than 160 countries have abolished the death penalty or introduced a moratorium on executions, only 73 countries had ratified the protocol at the start of the campaign. Meanwhile, this has become 81. In addition, a number of countries have accepted recommendations to ratify the Protocol during their universal periodic review.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u12	I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the importance of the protocol. The ratification of the Protocol prevents the reintroduction of the death penalty and provides more certainty than a moratorium on the use of the death penalty that may be revoked at any time. It is therefore very important to encourage countries that no longer apply death penalty to ratify the second protocol. Belgian MEPs also have a role to play here. In many countries, Parliament is the stumbling block to ratification. We are therefore trying not only to establish intergovernmental contacts, but also interparliamentary ones. They are very useful to achieve the same understanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u13	Human rights and, in particular, women's and children's rights are at my heart. You refer to the parliamentary function of all of us. I can report that fortunately we are not alone. Yesterday there was a meeting of Parliamentary and Mayors for a democratic Iran to discuss these recent cases. Here too, violence was clearly condemned and called for action. Your policy statement also shows that your priority is to support the candidacy for the Human Rights Council. You also promise to pay more attention to women's rights and to protect all kinds of freedoms. I hope that you will be able to use this legislature fully to apply your influence and support us in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u14	Mr President, Minister, the British government, in the person of David Cameron, has often taken firm positions on the future of the European Court of Human Rights. It – which is therefore called into question by the British Prime Minister – is the cornerstone of the Council of Europe and the guarantor of respect for the European Convention on Human Rights by its 47 members. Yet Britain's threats to the Court continue to grow. According to the British Prime Minister, Britain has "no need to receive instructions from judges in Strasbourg". This speech does not only exist in its head, since other decision-makers question the proper implementation of the Court's judgments. For example, the French Prime Minister, Manuel Valls, has recently demonstrated himself by words of the same acabit, contesting the conviction of France by the Court. These statements give an unacceptable credit to Euroscepticism (by attacking rights and values), while the European Court of Human Rights is an indispensable mechanism in the fight against human rights violations on the European continent. We cannot accept that the protection of our common values and rights is being violated or receded, especially since these States have committed themselves to respecting them. I would therefore like to ask you a number of questions, Mr Minister. What will be Belgium's position on statements against the European Court of Human Rights? Have you ever been able to meet with your counterparts and analyse the reception given to these criticisms by various prime ministers, members of the Council of Europe? What position will you stand with your European counterparts on this international forum in the Committee of Ministers where you sit? Will this be one of the priorities of the Belgian Presidency of the Council of Europe, which started on 13 November and which I welcome the President of the Council of Europe? What are the avenues envisaged in order to preserve the proper functioning of this essential institution on our continent and its freedom of action in the defence of human rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u15	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, Belgium has been a founding member of the Council of Europe and a signatory to the European Convention on Human Rights since 1955. We have always defended and will continue to defend respect for the authority of the institutions and, in particular, of the Court. Since 2000, intergovernmental experts from the 47 member states of the Council of Europe have been actively involved in the reform of the Court in order to enable it to respond to the potential demands of 800 million citizens, who can take it directly. Belgium is not left behind. It continues to advocate for the maintenance of the right of individual appeal, the cornerstone of the European Convention on Human Rights system. We will continue to contribute our stone to this building in the framework of the Belgian Presidency – which you have just recalled – of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe until May 2015. Several events will be organised by Belgian federal and federated entities on this subject, including a high-level conference on "Implementation of the European Convention on Human Rights – Our shared responsibility". It will take place on 26 and 27 March in Brussels. The aim of this conference is to adopt a political declaration capable of giving new impetus to the reform process initiated in 2010, while emphasizing the shared responsibility for the implementation of the Convention, as well as the enforcement of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. Through this initiative, Belgium intends to target the commitment of the States and the Court to the preservation of an effective system of protection of fundamental rights in Europe, while respecting the responsibilities of each actor. I have already had the opportunity to explain these intentions of the Belgian Presidency to all the colleagues in the Committee of Ministers, because I visited Strasbourg to set up our Presidency and presented them with our priorities. We will continue to work in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u16	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, your answers are reassuring. I will follow you in our country's commitment as a representative of the Council of Europe: it is a matter of constantly defending these institutions and their sustainability.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u17	Minister, on 24 October, President Putin gave a speech in the framework of the Valdai International Discussion Club in Sochi. In that speech he criticized the evolution after the fall of the Iron Curtain in the unipolar world. He advocated, among other things, a multipolar world order, respecting the interests of all major players. In this context, he defended the Eurasian cooperation developed by Russia. Some media speak of a historic turning point, others speak of a recurring message from President Putin, which makes his message no less important or disturbing. In the context of the recent events at the G20, my question has become more topical. Mr Minister, first of all, have the diplomatic services taken note of the speech and analysed it? Secondly, how do you evaluate the speech? What do you think is the value of the statements? Thirdly, can you confirm the reports of foreign media about an increase in espionage incidents, including several interceptions of Russian military aircraft within European airspace? Fourthly, what message do you think President Putin would like to send with this? In other words, what do you think we should draw from the different signals?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u18	Mrs Claerhout, I will try to answer your questions briefly. The services always take note of President Putin's traditional speech at the Valdai meeting. Secondly, I take the speech seriously. She outlines President Putin's vision of international relations. This kind of speech is always partly for domestic use, as is the case in many other countries. However, we must listen to these messages. She's antiwestern, but that's the atmosphere in Russia. Thirdly, I can confirm the increase. This is worrying and is causing increasing distrust. It is not immediately clear what Russia is trying to achieve. Fourthly, what message is that for Europe? That is rather a question for the Russian embassy. I note the offer to the EU to create, together with the Eurasian Economic Union, a large economic area, which I am in favour of, once the conditions have been met. That's a long-term job. Other comments mainly addressed to the United States are less constructive. Fifthly, there are contradictory signals coming from Russia, some of which are very worrying. A positive signal, for example, is the recent agreement on gas supplies to Ukraine. A very negative signal is the recognition by Moscow of pseudo-elections in the area controlled by the so-called People's Republics of Donetsk and Lugansk. Sixthly, I do not think in terms of buffer states. Others might. Belgium is opposed to polarisation and stands for the free choice and sovereignty of the states concerned. The increasing incalculability, growing distrust and damage to the international security system have already had a profound impact on the policies of the European Union and NATO. This translates into sanctions, new NATO actions such as adjustments, reinsurance, support to Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia. In any case, we must exercise strategic patience. Sustainable solutions can only be achieved through dialogue and compromise. I said at the latest European Council on External Relations that it is a good time to think about a new relationship with Russia in the medium term. In the next few weeks and months we may introduce further sanctions and actions on Ukraine, but with Russia we can discuss more than just the situation with Ukraine. We must also talk about the internal situation in Russia and certainly also about human rights in Russia. In addition, there are many other international dossiers that need to be addressed, including on Syria, Iraq, the Middle East. There is a great need for a real relationship with Russia in many areas, but that is not easy. On 9 December, I visit Moscow for bilateral contact as Chairman of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am pleased to hear that you are keeping a close eye on the positive and negative signals, that you will continue to pay due attention to them and that you will take them with you when you visit Moscow if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u20	Mr President, Minister, the government agreement provides that: "In-house, every effort must be made to properly frame the Universal Periodic Review at the UN Human Rights Council, whose second cycle for Belgium is scheduled for early 2016". My question relates specifically to the involvement of civil society in the drafting of the report to be submitted by Belgium in this regard at the end of October 2015. From the information provided to me, it appears that this consultation with civil society during the first UPR cycle (31 May 2013), during the mid-term review, did not take place under the best auspices (a few organisations present, invitations and working papers sent at the last minute), which made it clear that this consultation was primarily a matter of courtesy and not of genuine involvement in the process. However, the FPS Foreign Affairs website is unambiguous in this respect. It states that "The role played by civil society, including NGOs and the media, is essential to the functioning of our democratic system, as well as to the protection of human rights. By controlling the activity of the State, civil society acts as a necessary counterweight to its power." The national report submitted by Belgium to the UN for the UPR in May 2011 specifically referred to this close consultation with civil society. As a result, Minister, can you let me know if a timetable for consultation with civil society is being developed? Furthermore, what procedures will be followed for an association to be admitted to this consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Caprasse, I would like first of all to point out, as you have done, that civil society was consulted when the first national report was drawn up in 2010. Belgium will be the subject of a UPR in early 2016. The drafting of the report and the conciliation procedure will therefore take place in the course of next year. A clear timetable for dialogue with civil society has not yet been established. The process of drafting the second national report still needs to be initiated and coordinated with all relevant entities. Foreign Affairs coordinates this activity. A consultation with civil society will therefore be organised once again. It will be open to all associations active in the field of human rights. Do not hesitate to recommend that they contact us, if some associations felt that they had not been sufficiently consulted in 2013. I confirm here what appears on the department's website.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u22	Mr President, Minister, according to the national report presented to the Human Rights Council on the occasion of the first UPR 2011 session, Belgium made a clear commitment, with a view to its election to the Human Rights Council in 2009, to prepare its national report in a transparent manner in close consultation with civil society and to involve it in the follow-up to this review. May the second session of the UPR be more positive in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u23	Apart from colleagues Matz and Caprasse, the other colleagues have withdrawn their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u24	Mr Minister, I apologize for my delay, but I was sitting in the Committee on the Interior to hear Mr Franken. The situation of the Yezidis in Iraq has already been reported in this committee. Since the Islamic State offensive last June, this community has been particularly targeted and threatened with genocide. Among the atrocities committed against him - which have been denounced for months by the Yezidis, human rights organizations and the Iraqi State - is the capture of women and children to make them sexual slaves. The Islamic State openly boasted that once these families were enslaved, they were sold to the organization's soldiers. Young girls are thus forcibly married to combatants. The Yezidis are persecuted for their religion. According to the Statute of the International Criminal Court, it is a crime against humanity. The government agreement provides for special attention for people oppressed because of their religion. So my questions are as follows. Will Belgium take any initiatives to prosecute the Islamic State for a crime against humanity? What specific action does Belgium take with regard to the Yezidis? Have Belgian embassies in neighbouring countries received visa applications from Yezidis wishing to travel to Belgium? If so, how many? What was the answer given to them? Is it possible for ongs or structures in Autonomous Kurdistan to provide psychological assistance to these displaced persons? If so, does Belgium intend to support these structures? If not, is Belgium planning to take an initiative so that such support can be provided?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u25	Mr President, I have already asked my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u26	Ms Caprasse, who is a new colleague, has heard what the Minister of Defence has said. The same question should not be asked twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u27	Mr President, I will go back to a number of points, but we have had the opportunity to talk at length about the situation in Iraq and Syria and the situation of minorities during the joint meeting of the External Relations and Defence Committees. We can go back if we wish. We have all the time. A general debate on the subject had been requested and Ms Caprasse had indeed spoken earlier on minorities in that debate. But we can do it again. As I said earlier, we are following not only the situation of a minority in particular in Iraq but also that of all minorities. As I said to Mrs Caprasse earlier, I can understand the concerns about a number of minorities within Iraq, but it should be recalled that in the region the first victims of the conflicts that are taking place are essentially Muslim. It is the local population that suffers through a whole series of actions and atrocities that are committed. Of course, among the atrocities committed by Isis Daesh, by this terrorist group, including the capture of women and children as slaves, the actions against a number of minority groups have attracted particular attention. We're in contact with people in the field. My services have had several meetings with Kurds, Christians and the Yezidis of Iraq over the past few weeks. These are ministers of the Kurdish authorities, officials, parliamentarians, researchers, journalists and members of civil society. As part of these contacts, the only Yezidi parliamentarian in the Iraqi Parliament, Ms. Vian Dakheel Saeed and Mr. Khairi Elias Ali, Director General of Yezidi Affairs of the Kurdish authorities, were received on 11 September by my Chief of Staff. These two people were able to give, just after the events on Mount Sinjar, first-hand information on the situation of the Yezidis. It is clear that many refugees have taken the road to the Kurdish region. There, the needs are enormous. We called him back earlier. Certainly in view of the coming winter. On 30 September, I had an interview with Peter Maurer, President of the International Red Cross, which focused on the humanitarian situation in Iraq. Our Ambassador in Amman visited Iraq again on 13 and 15 October, where he gave great importance during his last talks to the humanitarian situation and the situation of minorities in particular. Belgium has also acted in practice. It has released 2 million euros that have been paid into OCHA's account for humanitarian action in Iraq. We sent a C-130 with humanitarian aid gathered in Belgium. It goes without saying that Belgium is also active at the diplomatic level. We are also recognized for efforts at this level. Belgium is participating, together with the most active countries in Iraq, in the various multilateral meetings on Iraq. At these meetings, we pay particular attention to both humanitarian aid and the search for lasting stability for the country. We systematically put the same message on the table at meetings within the European Union. At the special session of the Human Rights Council on 1 September last devoted to Iraq, it was decided to send a mission to Iraq. Belgium co-signed the request for this session and co-sponsored the mission's sending resolution. During the 20th universal periodic review of the Human Rights Council on 3 November in Geneva, Belgium strongly deplored and expressed shock at the deterioration of the human rights situation since the attacks by Isis Daesh. Belgium expressed particular concern about the precarious situation of ethnic and religious minorities. We recommended that the Iraqi government invite the Special Rapporteur on minorities to visit the country in order to examine the situation and monitor acts and hate speech against ethnic and religious groups; to take the necessary measures to combat them and to bring those responsible to justice – as you raised the issue of impunity – in accordance with international standards. Belgium recommends that the Iraqi Government ratify the Rome Statute on the International Criminal Court and the Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Court. We are convinced that Isis Daesh must be fought so that these atrocities do not multiply in the future and, if possible, be stopped. In this context, we have sent our F16s as part of the international coalition that has been formed. We believe that the terrorist group must also be combated at the root of its functioning, hence our fight against both the sources of financing of this group and the phenomenon of foreign fighters. With regard to the specific question of visa applications by the Yezidis, I can inform you that we are aware of two visa applications by Yezidis from our posts in Iraq's neighbouring countries. One request was refused, the other was accepted. It should be noted that nowhere in passports is it mentioned that the visa applicant is Yezidi. It is therefore possible that among Iraqis applying for visas there are Yezidis, without our services being aware. As I said earlier, we will continue to make every effort to welcome them here, to welcome them also through humanitarian aid in the region and, if possible, to allow them one day to return to their region of origin, but without knowing when stabilization in Iraq will be sufficient to enable them to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u28	Mr President, Minister, a report by the human rights organisation Human Rights Watch, published on 1 October 2014, states that more than 100 demobilized combatants and their families died of hunger and illness while in the Kotakoli military camp, located in a remote area of the province of Ecuador. They died after the Congolese authorities neglected to provide them with adequate food and health care. This is not only criminal negligence, but also a very negative element for the DRC's stabilisation process. Indeed, these former combatants were from various armed groups active in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Alexandre Luba Ntambo, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence and Veterans Affairs of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, said that ex-combatants and their families had been detained in Kotakoli for much longer than expected due to significant delays in the implementation of the new programme "Disarmament, demobilization and reintegration" and the reluctance of donors to finance the programme. Belgium has a military partnership with the DRC It participates in the EUSEC RD Congo programme and is a contributor country to MONUSCO. She is also very active in many forums on the Great Lakes region. Minister, my questions are as follows. Is the Kotakoli camp still open? Does Belgium participate in the DDR programme? What about the funding of this program? To avoid the recurrence or recurrence of this tragedy, one of the avenues is the strengthening of MONUSCO's role in the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programme. Does Belgium, which participates in the United Nations force, support this idea? If so, how? If not, why? What is the status of the implementation of the Addis Ababa Agreements by the Democratic Republic of the Congo?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u29	Mr President, Minister, I too have a question about the Democratic Republic of Congo. Belgium has close links with Central Africa, where we work together to safeguard stability and build the rule of law. Not only in the diplomatic field, we are leading the way, but also in our development cooperation and our military bilateral partnerships Belgium is very present in the region. In addition, Belgium participates in several EU and UN missions in Central Africa. A few months ago, we had an important moment when the armed forces of the DRC and the MONUSCO peacekeeping force managed to bring force majeure to M23 rebels. The Allied Democratic Forces were also strongly driven back. Nevertheless, the peace in the east of the Democratic Republic of Congo had not returned. Last month, civilians in the region of Beni-Butembo were murdered during several attacks, presumably by members of the ADF-Nalu group. Over 80 people were killed. Many people fled. President Kabila then noted that he would neutralize the ADF with the help of the UN mission MONUSCO. The DRC is not only suffering from rebel groups; its policy is also undermining the country's stability. For example, Scott Campbell, the director of the United Nations Joint Human Rights Office, was expelled from the country on 18 October 2014. The expulsion followed the publication of a JHRO report, which describes a serious violation of human rights by Congolese national police officers. These violations occurred during the so-called operation Likofi, which was set up to fight crime in Kinshasa. A month earlier, UNC delegate Jean-Bertrand Ewanga was sentenced to 12 months in prison. The conviction followed his arrest after a demonstration of the opposition. That is why I have a number of questions for you, Minister. Firstly, can you explain the various attacks on civilians in the Beni-Butembo region? Is there any more information on the group that committed the attacks? Are there any links between that group and other groups? What concrete steps has the MONUSCO taken to combat the ADF since the attacks in October? Secondly, the condemnation of Jean-Bertrand Ewanga undermines the right to freedom of expression. Did you talk to the Congolese authorities about this? What steps will Belgium possibly take to promote the release of Jean-Bertrand Ewanga? Thirdly, could you explain the events surrounding Operation Likofi? What are your findings on JHRO's report? Did you talk to the Congolese authorities about this? If so, what position have you taken on this matter? If not, why didn't you address them?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u30	Mr President, I will try to answer a dozen questions in different areas. First of all, I will answer Mrs Matz's questions. First of all, the Kotakoli camp is still open. In early October, MONUSCO sent 18 tons of food to support the most urgent needs in this camp. We are not currently participating in the DDR programme because we were waiting first for a clear plan and budget from the Congolese authorities before taking a decision. The plan, called PN-DDR-3, was presented by the Congolese authorities on 8 October. Belgium could eventually make a financial contribution via the World Bank Trust Fund, which will be operational in March 2015. We wish to assess in advance the concrete implementation of this plan by the Congolese authorities. We need a number of guarantees. The DDR-3 plan proposed by the Congolese authorities will cover four years with a total budget of US$85 million. Pending the operationalization of the World Bank trust fund, the first phase of the plan, mainly the construction of three centres to prepare for the reintegration of former combatants, will be funded by the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to the tune of $10 million and by MONUSCO, which will contribute $8 million. MONUSCO is already playing an important role in the DDR process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It has addressed the shortcomings of the Congolese authorities in terms of logistics in the triage camps, thus preventing the situation from turning into a widespread humanitarian catastrophe. MONUSCO must remain involved. The Congolese authorities'DDR-3 plan provides for this. Its main task will be to build the three rehabilitation preparation centres. To that end, it needed certain guarantees: that the Congolese authorities should indeed commit the $10 million planned for the first phase of the plan; that the Congolese Government should also take a firm and definitive decision on the location of those camps; and that MONUSCO should be allowed to maintain a permanent presence in those camps and in the triage camps. I hope that the forthcoming reform of MONUSCO will give the UN mission sufficient financial and human resources to carry out these tasks. In October 2013, President Kabila, in his closing address to the national consultations, said: "To neighbouring countries, I would like to reiterate that the royal path for peace and stability in the region lies in the effective and good faith implementation of the Addis Ababa Framework Agreement and UN Security Council Resolution 2098. I therefore urge them to fulfil their commitments under this agreement and reaffirm the determination of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to fulfil its own to date." The Framework Agreement is a concept of security, peace and development for the Great Lakes region, which is both comprehensive and abstract. With regard to the implementation of the DRC's commitments, Kinshasa has developed a complicated system of benchmarks and indicators that ultimately makes the exercise very bureaucratic, which could make it cumbersome and unreadable. While progress has been made in the implementation of the agreement, as noted by civil society in an evaluation agreement of 15 September 2014, much remains to be done. This situation is the result of a set of factors such as the fact that this issue is not receiving sufficient attention, the political agenda being dominated by other subjects, or the lack of resources allocated to the national monitoring mechanism. We will follow the evolution. I would also point out, as far as MONUSCO is concerned, that I had the opportunity to meet Martin Kobler recently in Brussels to take stock of all this. I come to Mrs Claerhout's questions. The atmosphere in the Beni region is indeed very tense and instability spreads to other parts of the east. It is possible that these massacres were carried out by groups other than the ADF group. We have talked about the presence of militias from al-Shabaab from Somalia. Although the ADF group is associated with al-Shabaab, it is unlikely that Somali Islamists who are under increasing pressure in their own country, especially after the death of their leader, would have had the opportunity to decline to the DRC to participate in an operation. MONUSCO supported the FRDC against the ADF-Nalu during the Sokola operation. However, the UN mission is currently in a reform phase, the strategic evaluation, led by Martin Kobler. I had contact with him in Brussels a few weeks ago. He understands the criticism of the lack of commitment of some of his troops to the recent events in Beni, also because certain battalions have been waiting for orders from their capital. It is always the case that the agreement of the capital must be obtained in the event of such an operation. The reform of MONUSCO will take account, inter alia, of this element. The fight against armed groups is a long struggle and unfortunately the result is not always immediately tangible and visible. As far as your second question is concerned, from the outset I asked our embassy to follow the matter closely in consultation with the other countries of the European Union. Our embassy was involved in approaching politicians. I also published a press release on the subject on 12 September. I have expressed my concern about the verdict and the fact that no appeal is possible. I also recalled the need to preserve freedom of expression and other civil and political freedoms in the context of the imminent start of a very important electoral cycle in the Democratic Republic of Congo. During discussions with Congolese interlocutors, I reiterated the importance of an open political area. While respecting the independence of Congolese justice, this issue will be discussed again with Congolese interlocutors during my visit to the Democratic Republic of Congo, which is normally scheduled for January 2015. We're working on the preparation of that mission. I will take this opportunity to remind you that Belgium attaches great importance to freedom of expression and opposition rights. On 15 October, the JHRO published a report highlighting the serious human rights violations committed by Congolese police during the Likofi anti-street crime operation from November 2013 to February 2014. The Congolese authorities have taken offense at this report and have decided to declare Scott Campbell, the director of the DRC, persona non grata. Since then, a Human Rights Watch report on the Likofi operation, which contains serious allegations, was published on 18 November. These two reports are very worrying, especially if we know that the Congolese police are planning to carry out a new Likofi operation. I have already discussed in detail the Likofi operation in a previous debate on 29 January 2014. For my response to Mr Scott Campbell's deposition, I refer to my press release of 18 October. If the fight against urban terrorism is necessary, it must be done in accordance with human rights, particularly in the case of minors, as was the case for part of the kulunas. I also asked the Congolese authorities to investigate the alleged facts themselves and to prosecute the guilty. The Human Rights Watch report was recently published and I have not yet had a chance to communicate directly with the Congolese authorities. As I said, I will certainly do this during my visit to Congo in January 2015. So far about a dozen answers to a dozen questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that you need more information and evaluation before making funds available to support this project. That seems quite logical to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u32	Mr President, Minister, I suggest that we come back to this after your journey to see what the answers are.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u33	Mr. President, Minister, Human Rights Watch (HRW) released the report "The Power These Men Have Over Us" mentioning that soldiers of the African Union Mission in Somalia have abused and sexually exploited Somali women and girls on two bases in Mogadishu. These would include Ugandan and Burundian troops serving in AMISOM, acting against humanitarian aid, medical aid or when women were going to fetch water from AMISOM base. AMISOM is responsible for assisting the Mogadishu authorities against the Islamists of AI Shabab. It is financed, in particular, by the European Union, which pays the balances of the military. The fight against impunity and the fight against sexual violence have been a priority of the Belgian government for many years. Minister, has the allegations contained in this report been followed up at European level? If so, which one? If not, why? What follow-up was provided with the representatives of the African Union? Does this call into question the European Union's financial support to AMISOM? Is there provision for medical, psychological, legal and financial support for victims? Belgium maintains a privileged political dialogue with Burundi and Uganda, two countries of concentration of Belgian development cooperation. Were these allegations addressed by Belgium with the authorities of those countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you have pointed out, the fight against impunity and sexual violence remains a priority for the Belgian Government. I therefore attach great importance to a thorough investigation into the allegations of exploitation of Burundian and Ugandan troops in AMISOM. The European Union, supported by Belgium, also intervened on 16 October at the 462nd meeting of the Peace and Security Council of the African Union in order to welcome the establishment of an independent commission of inquiry to examine these allegations. AMISOM is making personal efforts to ensure that its personnel maintain the highest standards of human rights and humanitarian rights, including zero tolerance for any form of misconduct. It should be emphasized that AMISOM has also decided to thoroughly investigate allegations of sexual exploitation and abuse. It is important that the AMISOM mission be able to continue, as security and the improvement of the humanitarian situation are prerequisites for the long-term stabilization of Somalia. The European Union will therefore continue to play an active and direct role in achieving this objective by pursuing, in particular, its financial support for AMISOM. Given the confidentiality of victim-related information, it is difficult to verify what support has actually been provided on the ground. In addition, Belgium, like most EU Member States, does not have an embassy in Somalia, making the collection of information on the ground more complex. Following the publication of the Human Rights Watch report, a then Minister of Cooperation, Jean-Pascal Labelle, had the opportunity to discuss this subject with Burundi's Minister of External Relations, Laurent Kavakure, in the framework of the ministerial week of the 69th session of the United Nations General Assembly held in New York last September. In addition, I can assure you that this theme will be addressed in my forthcoming meetings with my Burundian and Ugandan counterparts.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u35	Minister, thank you for your commitment to the protection of these sexually exploited women.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u36	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, I will try to be shorter than the written question tabled, but there are many twists in this matter. My question still mentioned Mr. De Gucht as Commissioner in charge. I assume that the change in commissioner will have an impact on the policy that will be pursued with respect to TTIP. I'm more and more concerned about a problem. I have read the English report on the GDP implications of TTIP. We are talking about 0.5% in 12 years if the Treaty is achieved at 100% and for the European Union as a whole. That's a figure you'll agree it's pretty derisory. Foremostly, 0.5% means more and less within the European Union. There will certainly be adjustments. What do you think of the idea of entrusting the Office of the Plan, the equivalent of the office which carried out the English encryption, with the task of studying the impact of this Treaty at Belgian level? For the rest, it is a little early to decide, unless advanced contacts have already taken place on how the negotiation of this Treaty will turn out with a new policy being put in place at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u37	Mr President, Minister, on 15 September, in a triumphal communiqué, you welcomed the decision taken at the informal meeting of EU Trade Ministers to declassify and publish the mandate granted to the Commission by Belgium and the 27 other members of the European Union on 14 June 2013. Since it is now public, after more than a year of rather opaque negotiations, we can finally have the necessary political and public debate on this mandate, first and foremost in the Committee on External Relations. While the mandate given to the Commission was a few pages long, the final document of the CETA Treaty (between the European Union and Canada) became a huge document of 1,600 pages, to be taken or left. We'll discuss it here, by the way. Previous negotiations of this type of trade treaty have therefore shown that many new elements can be added or removed during negotiations. In the case of the TTlP, the Barroso Commission has notoriously refused public debate on the issue of the establishment of arbitral tribunals (or ISDS standard) and truncated the citizen debate on this subject in a scandalous manner. It amounted to asking such complicated questions that one could only answer them in a certain way. I did the exercise. It was pretty interesting. The new President Juncker said to the European Parliament on 15 July "that he will not accept that the jurisdiction of the courts and tribunals of the Member States of the European Union is limited by special regimes for investor disputes. The rule of law and the principle of equality before the law must also apply in this context." It therefore ruled against the ISDS standard in the TTIP, whereas the mandate granted by the Member States to the Commission in the summer of 2013 explicitly provided for the ISDS standard, the arbitral tribunal. This encourages us to be very cautious, knowing that we are in the 7th round, soon in the 8th round of which I do not know the date. Mr Minister, in the same spirit of transparency, of which you were delighted, are you considering requesting the publication of the various European positions that were defended in the last 7 rounds of TTIP negotiations? What position has Belgium taken so far and is it planning to defend in the future within the Council with regard to the presence of the ISDS clause or the arbitral tribunal?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u38	Mr President, Minister, at the risk of repeating us, the questions I have to ask about TTIP are very similar to those of my colleague, Mr Hellings. Could you tell me what are the latest developments in the negotiations under this treaty with the United States? What position has Belgium taken and intends to take in this context? What is the schedule of work for the coming weeks or months? As far as Mr Juncker's position is concerned, it is not very clear about the arbitration courts. How can the transparency of the negotiations be implemented in future work? How can Mr Juncker guarantee it? I would also like to hear from you about the transparency that you intend to adopt during the negotiations and about your positions on this issue. What modalities can be put in place so that we can remain informed and receive regular feedback on these discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all as regards the state of the negotiations, I would say that they are in transition: in the United States, the mid-term elections have just taken place. The seventh and final round of negotiations took place from 29 September to 3 October; the next round will take place in early 2015. The new European Trade Commissioner, Mrs Malmström, will be visiting the United States for a first meeting with her counterpart Michael Froman in the second week of December. On the sidelines of the G20 summit in Brisbane, the leaders of the European Union and the European G20 countries, together with the US President, reiterated their commitment to ambitious transatlantic free trade negotiations in a spirit of mutual benefit. With regard to the impact assessment carried out at the beginning of the negotiations, this assessment is not updated as the rounds of negotiations progress; such an exercise would be too complicated given the number of elements fluctuating during the negotiations. However, an ex post evaluation, as is the case with the free trade agreement with Korea, a few years after its implementation is certainly to be encouraged. I also share the wish for an impact assessment for Belgium. Contacts were made with the Planning Office, which did not respond to this request. Such an exercise requires significant resources and its results are only indications based on many assumptions, but my services have again asked the FPS Economy to take up the issue. The procedure for granting a negotiating mandate to the United States operates under parameters other than those of the European Union. The definition of the negotiating mandate given by the Congress will be completed in the course of negotiations. Moreover, it is a general mandate valid for all trade negotiations, including this agreement. I share your reaction to the importance of ensuring maximum transparency in the negotiations. It is in this spirit that I have advocated within the Trade Council for a declassification of the mandate. This has taken time, but, as you have pointed out, this mandate is now publicly available; indeed, the Commissioner also wanted it, but some Member States have for a long time opposed this approach. This transparency is essential, as it will allow for greater involvement of civil society and economic actors in these discussions. Information is available on DG Trade (Trade)'s website on European positions, particularly in the 7th round of negotiations. Rest assured that I will continue to support the European Commission's efforts and initiatives to improve the transparency of the negotiations. Like other countries within the European Union, Belgium is attentive to concerns regarding the possible inclusion of ISDS provisions in the draft agreement. At this stage, we look forward to the results of the public consultation launched by the Commission. They are expected by the end of this year or the beginning of next year. Delays are expected given the number of responses received. During the debate in the European Parliament on ISDS provisions, the new President of the Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, asked his Vice-President, Frans Timmermans, to examine the matter. The Commission will first wait for the results of the public consultation before taking a decision. We will therefore have the opportunity to discuss it after having read the results of this consultation. Finally, on rules of origin, as in other trade negotiations, the Commission will transmit to the United States a list of specific rules of origin. This list is currently being prepared and has not yet been transmitted to the Member States. It is therefore currently difficult to assess the impact on Belgian products, but an analysis will obviously be carried out by the competent services as soon as we have received this list.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answer. I also thank you for asking for this impact assessment, which is an essential point. You talked about evaluation, but the 0.5% is also an evaluation. It is important to compare with other countries. I know that it is a European treaty, but in a trade negotiation of this magnitude, there are many things more and less. The whole thing is to be clear-sighted about these pluses and minuses. I am not aware of the coercive capacity you have on the Plan Office to require this impact assessment. I thought the government had a hand on the Office of the Plan, and I didn't know that it could afford not to take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u41	Mr President, I am very concerned that an impact assessment was not requested before the Belgian Government granted it on 14 June 2013. It seems to me that it would have been wiser to see what benefits our State in the European Union could have received from this Transatlantic Treaty rather than asking for it now, when we are already in the seventh round. Both your party, Mrs Matz, Ms Grovonius' party and Mr Reynders' party participated in the government when the warrant was issued on June 14, 2013. It would have been very interesting to know about this impact assessment before granting this mandate. With respect to the ISDS standard, Minister...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u42	At that time, neither did you work on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u43	However, I did not participate in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u44	You could have questioned the minister...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u45	You know, I've done a lot of work on the Transatlantic Treaty, and in particular on the cultural exception. On the ISDS standard, 150 000 people responded to this consultation organised by the Commission. It is a tangible sign that it poses a question for good reasons: democratic and economic. Beyond this, it is important for Belgium to ask questions to the Council and to follow suit with Germany and other countries which share these concerns, motivated by provisions aimed at removing jurisdictional powers from our courts and tribunals and entrusting them to business lawyers. In such a system, multinationals obviously have far more weight than in a normal judicial system. I therefore draw your attention to the fact that we are in a danger zone, but that it is still time to turn back.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u46	Minister, I would also like to stress this ISDS clause, which remains very problematic. And that's not just the opinion of the PS or other parties. Indeed, through this public consultation, very many people and associations have expressed themselves in this direction. I therefore ask the Minister to be extremely vigilant in this area. Similarly, other issues remain: the absence of social and environmental standards in this Treaty, the cultural exception, and the danger posed to public services. I hope that this message can be conveyed during the European discussions in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u47	Mr. President, Minister, FPS Foreign Affairs officials recently met with the CEO of the Malaysian Parma Oil Council, representing 300,000 planters. The representative of the palm oil industry complained that the labels of certain products mentioned that these products did not contain palm oil. In these eyes, it is an illegal measure and he would like to bring to justice the companies that do so. Palm oil is controversial. On the one hand, for the destruction of forests, the establishment of monoculture and its impact on the subsistence agriculture of local populations. On the other hand, the Supreme Council of Health recommends limiting the consumption of foods containing palm oil. This oil contains more than 40% of so-called "atherogenic" saturated fatty acids, which have adverse health effects, in particular increasing the risk of cardiovascular accidents. My questions are as follows. Can you tell us the content of the maintenance of your services with the CEO of the Malaysia Palm Oil Council? Do you share his analysis? Will the government respond to his request?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u48	Mr President, Mrs Matz, I confirm that my cabinet did indeed receive a delegation from the Malasian Palm Oil Council on 15 October. He became aware of a number of complaints relating to the sale in our country of products with a label mentioning the absence of palm oil. The Malaysian Council condemns these practices and wishes to take steps against companies implementing them. Malaysian partners have been encouraged by my firm to engage in a dialogue on this matter with all relevant organisations, both producers and consumers. They were therefore encouraged to take this initiative. As far as the health aspect of the use of palm oil is concerned, I can only refer you back to my colleague from Health. Of course, I do not want to gather a number of analyses here. You mentioned one or the other. These are the only steps that have been taken. I think we will have the opportunity to discuss this issue again during the economic missions that will be launched next weekend in Malaysia under the chairmanship of Princess Astrid.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u49	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer. Indeed, these are health issues, but they are fundamental. I understand that there is a wind of uprising but that is also what the consumer expects. With all the information we know about palm oil, it is not unnecessary for certain products to be labelled "without palm oil", which guarantees a certain healthy side of the product. I therefore hope that during the economic mission there, we will not give in to the call of the company mermaids.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u50	Mr President, Minister, this issue was tabled a long time ago. It covers the negotiations on CETA, the agreement between the European Union and Canada. In September, in this committee, we asked to hear from you quickly about the position you expected to adopt at a summit held at the end of October – I think on 19 October. This mail never got an answer from you. That is why I had tabled this question at the time. I wish I could have heard you before the summit or immediately after. Mr Minister, what was Belgium's position after analysing the outcome of the negotiations conducted by the Commission and before the initialling? What was the content and agenda of the European Union-Canada Summit? What were the conclusions? What is the timetable for negotiations in this context today? Does the Commission have an assessment of the employment and growth implications for the European Union in relation to the initial promises of the similar agreement with South Korea in order to take them into account in these negotiations? If so, can we dispose of it? Finally, do you intend to come to Parliament in order to ensure transparency with regard to Parliament? I'm glad that you're here today, but again, and that's a little bit of what I've already formulated for TTIP, it's really important that the contacts are much more regular so that we can exchange before such summits are held, about the mandate you're going to hold in this context, and so that the returns are much more regular and soon after the summits.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u51	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, following the intra-Belgian coordination discussion held before each meeting of the Committee on Trade Policy within the Council of the European Union, Belgium, like other Member States of the European Union, expressed its appreciation to the Commission for the work done in the negotiations on the CETA Agreement. This agreement contains many positive elements for our country: access to the Canadian public market, better protection of our pharmaceutical products, market opening for dredging services, etc. However, with regard to the ISDS clause to which you refer, Belgium has taken the opportunity to repeat its doubts about the timing of the treatment of the ISDS chapter in CETA, in view of the negotiations with the United States, whose results are expected from the public consultation. The European Union-Canada Summit held in Ottawa on 26 September, the first summit since 2010, marked a very important milestone in the development of relations between the European Union and Canada. The summit laid a new foundation for the strategic partnership. The summit provided an opportunity to explore the bilateral political and economic agenda as well as developments in the world, particularly in the Middle East. These summits are always being prepared at the level of Heads of State and Government, since it is the Presidency of the Council and the Presidency of the Commission that have responsibility for them. I assume that at the time, the Prime Minister in day-to-day affairs raised a number of concerns with the President of the Council or the President of the Commission. The summit was able to celebrate the end of the negotiations of the Strategic Partnership Agreement, which will form, once ratified, the new legal basis for relations between the European Union and Canada. The summit also marked the end of the talks on the CETA economic agreement. In addition, Canada has formally declared that it no longer opposes the European Union's observer status in the Arctic Council, which was also the subject of ongoing discussions. Finally, both sides have decided to further strengthen their joint efforts for peace and to address security challenges. The timetable for CETA is determined first by a legal grooming of the text which could take a few more months. Then the text will have to be translated into the languages of the European Union, which will also take a few months. A proposal from the Commission to the Council for a decision can then be expected. An impact assessment was carried out at the beginning of the CETA negotiations, but it needs to be refined in the light of the results obtained. The agreement between the European Union and South Korea could be a useful indicator, but? Unfortunately, we do not have specific employment figures. Trade between the European Union and South Korea has increased after the entry into force of the Agreement? But at this point, I will be careful about all the reasons for this increase. As in the past, I remain available for a discussion on the negotiation of free trade agreements in Parliament. We will have the opportunity, before the Commission comes to the Council with a final proposal, to come back to this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u52	Minister, thank you. I would like to express the same reservations as I have with regard to TTIP. It is imperative that we pay attention to the fact that this type of agreement does not lead to a lowering of our social and environmental standards. We must also prevent our public services from suffering from these agreements. I repeat our greatest reservations about this type of agreement. I understand that you have the will to pursue a positive outcome to the conclusion of this agreement. I regret this, especially since at this stage we are not sure that it will bring real added value in terms of employment or trade for Belgium. You're telling me there's an impact assessment. I do not know to what extent we can be aware of this, even if I hear your reservations about employment figures. It would be interesting if the members of the committee could read about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u53	I'll give you the references.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u54	Debates of the European Parliament No 104, by Mrs Khattabi and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) Mr Dallemagne's 118 amendments were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u55	Minister, on 29 September 2014, the Israeli authorities had part of a Belgian-funded electricity grid demolished in the village of Al-Tawil in the West Bank. It would be about 70 electricity poles and about 4.5 km of electricity wire. This is not the first time that the Israeli authorities have undertaken to demolish infrastructures, which have been co-financed by external funds. Apparently it hasn't been the last time either. After all, there seems to have been a small school with a playground in the sight of the Israeli slugs. Of course the demolition is especially bad for the village, which is affected by it and no longer has electricity. However, it is also bad for the financial resources of Belgian Development Cooperation. You stated at the beginning of October 2014 that you would ask the Israeli Ambassador for a statement. You might also ask for compensation. First of all, did that conversation happen? What was the ambassador's statement for the demolition? Secondly, have you given the request for compensation to the Israeli Ambassador? Thirdly, is the problem also being discussed at European level, since Belgium is not only involved in such situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u56	Minister, in Zone C, the Palestinians need better access to water and electricity. The destruction of the project in Al-Tawil has a negative impact on the alleviation of these humanitarian needs. It is therefore contrary to international humanitarian law. Other development projects by European partners and the European Commission have also been or may be affected by similar actions. On 4 November 2014, Minister De Croo already explained the issue in the External Relations Committee. Nevertheless, I would like to ask you a few more questions about your powers in this regard. Firstly, did you in the meantime address the Israeli ambassador on the file? What explanation did he give about it? Have you made any specific arrangements in this area? Secondly, it was stated that Belgium would raise the question of compensation at European level. What is Israel's position on compensation? What steps has Belgium already taken to raise claims? For example, did you raise the issue at last week's European Foreign Affairs Council? How much would the compensation, if any, amount to? Thirdly, the Belgian ambassador to Israel would also have taken steps towards the Israeli Government. Is that right? What could have been discussed there?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u57	Mr Minister, since the end of Operation Protective Edge at the end of August, violations of the peace process have continued to increase. In this tense situation, I would like to ask you several questions. Do you have any new information regarding the arrest on 15 September of Mr. ltiraf Rimawi, Executive Director of the NGO Bisan Center for Research and Development, a partner of a Belgian NGO in Palestine since 2003? Beyond the formal condemnation by Belgium, what follow-up has been given to the Belgian Government's request for compensation for the damage caused by the Israeli army during the destruction, on 29 September, of an electricity transmission network set up in Khirbet al-Tawil with the financial assistance of the CTB, for an estimated value of 55 000 euros? What decisions were taken at the conference on 12 October in Cairo to put in place a common European response to such unacceptable destruction? What about another project funded by the Belgian Technical Cooperation - a playground of a kindergarten in the village of AI-Aqaba - which would also be threatened with such destruction? What can we do to avoid this? Finally, what is Belgium's position regarding the acceleration of plans for Israel's construction of 1,000 housing units in East Jerusalem? I was still reading in the press this morning that an agreement had been reached in recent days for the construction of 200 housing units.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 29 September the Israeli forces destroyed part of the low-voltage electricity grid in the village of Khirbet al-Tawil. The destruction of the project carried out by the Belgian-Technical Co-operative and financed by Belgian Development Cooperation amounts to about 55 000 euros. The destruction has a direct impact on the population, as economic activity and access to water are hampered. The action is also clearly contrary to international humanitarian law and is even more regrettable, as Belgium had taken a number of steps with the Israeli authorities to prevent the demolition. I publicly condemned this destruction on October 2. I also called the Israeli Ambassador to ask for explanations. In addition, an approach by our embassy in Tel Aviv was taken to the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs to clearly express our disapproval and remind the Israeli authorities of their responsibilities as the occupying Power. The replies received to date have focused mainly on licensing issues, to be concrete. This is the first time that a project of Belgian development cooperation in the West Bank has been destroyed. However, similar actions have also affected or threatened to affect other development projects of our European partners and the European Commission. I therefore confirm what I said earlier: Belgium intends that any destruction will be compensated and, like other Member States of the Union in the same situation as we do, this issue of compensation must be addressed first and foremost within a European framework in order to ensure the necessary unity of our positions and attitude towards Israel. A discussion is under way at European level on the definition of a compensation mechanism. Belgium is actively involved. I am not aware of any individual compensation obtained by other Member States of the European Union. However, they are also convinced of the need for a common mechanism and therefore give priority to this effort rather than to the pursuit of bilateral compensation. In the case of projects financed by Belgium in the governorate of Tubas, these are more precisely five projects implemented by the CTB between 2003 and 2007 under the microprojects programme for a total amount of approximately 43 000 euros (water tank for the village, additional classes for elementary school and rehabilitation of a kindergarten). A demolition order was issued for the latter project. However, this order was not carried out. We are therefore aware of the risks to this project and are kept informed of the situation, including through our Consulate General in Jerusalem. Obviously, steps have been taken to ensure that the demolition order is not carried out. Belgian Development Cooperation is carrying out a major programme in the West Bank, of which zone C is an important part. Belgium has launched a dialogue with the Israeli authorities to avoid destruction in the future. The Cairo conference of 12 October 2014 was not a conference of the European Union but a multilateral conference organised by Egypt and Norway on the reconstruction of Gaza. The issue of compensation was therefore not addressed because it is not in "EU" format and it is not the subject of the conference. Belgium's position regarding the acceleration of plans for Israel's housing construction in East Jerusalem is clear and consistent. Like the European Union, we condemn these decisions, which are likely to undermine the two-State solution and undermine Jerusalem's vocation to be the capital of these two States. I have made several statements and issued numerous communiqués in this regard, in which I have constantly recalled that settlements are illegal under international law. In those communiqués, I also called on Israel to reconsider its decisions and, more broadly, to immediately end settlement activities in East Jerusalem and throughout the West Bank. Like the European Union, Belgium will not recognise any changes at the 1967 borders other than those approved by both parties. The current situation is not acceptable and these developments underline once again the urgency of a resumption of negotiations in order to allow the emergence of a sovereign Palestinian State living alongside Israel in peace and security. With regard to the arrest to which you referred, I do not have a new element at my disposal. If we have any, I'll be sure to let you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answer. I welcome your statements in the press releases and the reactions to the destruction of this project. But we can see that this is not enough. We must therefore find other solutions. During my recent mission, some mentioned the fact that ownership of CTB-funded projects was transferred to the Palestinians. Why not consider that these projects remain the property of the Belgian State? This would further discourage the Israeli State from destroying them. Have you considered this lead? Is it credible and could it add value to this issue? Even though negotiations are important, the peace process is completely stuck. I continue to say that the motions for resolutions that are on the table today for the recognition of a Palestinian State must be considered with the utmost benevolence if we are to move forward on this issue and go beyond the statements and positions. We must ensure that the situation can improve after all these years of conflict and the bloodshed that has become daily.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u60	Minister, in your reply, you say that it is rather an option at European level to work towards a common compensation rather than a bilateral demand. I understand you're behind that, too. I have an additional question related to that. Do you have a view of whether all European partners support the idea of a common compensation?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u61	So far, I have received no negative response, with which I have not said that all European countries are in favour. I have seen positive reactions from all the countries that have had to deal with these problems. That is why we are now engaged in a joint action. A supplementary question related to ownership of the facilities. I have not been seized of the matter directly. This will need to be discussed with the BTC for projects it is implementing. I cannot tell you to what extent it is feasible or not on the ground. This is to be discussed with the Minister for Cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u62	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 135 lapses, because he has not asked for a postponement and has not given any notice. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Question No 140 and 227 by myself and Mr De Vriendt, as well as Question No 145, by Mr Dallemagne Mr Luykx's 155 amendments were converted into written questions. At the request of Mr Luykx, Questions Nos. 167 and 371 postponed. My question No. 251 is converted into a written question. My colleague Blanchart is not here. He didn't ask, but I'm asking for his questions. 389 and 390 to be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u63	Mr President, Mr Minister, first of all I would like to thank my fellow Members for their presence because it has been a long day. Minister, I would like to return to a problem that is dear to me because you know that I live on the outskirts of Brussels. Two of my colleagues also live in the periphery. They should therefore also be interested in this issue. I would like to refer here to the problem of the protection of minorities under the Belgian Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate you, Minister, for this is a position of great responsibility. Belgium, which was one of the ten founding countries of the institution in 1949, has held the rotating presidency of the Council of Europe for six months since 13 November. In an undoubtedly troubled international context, the Council of Europe is an essential institution as a guardian of human rights. Moreover, the government declaration is not wrong, since it states that the Belgian Presidency of the Council of Europe from November 2014 to May 2015 will be an opportunity to promote the rule of law, human rights, and democracy on our continent. The voluntarism of this commitment must not hide the fact that Belgium has still not ratified the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, signed by Belgium on 31 July 2001 by our Prime Minister's father. In its resolution 1301 of 26 September 2002, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, following the Nabholz report, regretted that the Belgian authorities had deemed it necessary to accompany the signature of the Framework Convention with a double declaration which assimilated in international law a reservation so wide that it might deprive most of the provisions of the Convention of effect. Should the Kingdom of Belgium decide to maintain, at the time of ratification of the Convention, the reservation made at the time of signature, this could be considered a violation of the Vienna Convention, which prohibits States from accompanying the ratification of a convention of reservations thereby vitating that convention from its meaning. More than thirteen years later, despite the above-mentioned resolution, the subsequent Recommendation No 1623 of 30 September 2003 and Recommendation No 1766 of 4 October 2006 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Framework Convention is still not ratified by the Belgian State, for lack of agreement within the Interministerial Conference on Foreign Policy (ICPE) on the concept of national minority and subsequent consent by the Flemish Parliament. However, in the above-mentioned Recommendation No. 1766, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, noting that Belgium, in particular, was still in non-ratification of the Framework Convention, recalled that in its Recommendation No. 1492 of 2003, it already called upon the above-mentioned States to sign or ratify the Framework Convention as soon as possible and without reservations or declarations, and noted the persistence in refusing to sign or ratify the Framework Convention by motivating this refusal by asserting that it respects the principle of non-discrimination in their domestic law. According to the information obtained, the subject is not on the agenda of the Belgian Presidency of the Council of Europe. It is paradoxical, however, to want to play a major role in the Council of Europe during these six months in promoting basic democratic principles and human rights throughout Europe, and to free itself internally from international obligations in this field as required by the Council. Therefore, Minister, can you confirm that the protection of national minorities is not on the agenda of the Belgian Presidency of the Council of Europe? If so, what are the reasons for this? Will an official document with the authorities of the Council of Europe attest to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u64	Mr President, Mrs Caprasse, from 13 November last until 19 May 2015, Belgium will assume the chairmanship of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. The Presidency's programme has been drawn up in close cooperation between the departments of the Federal Government and the federal entities concerned. The priorities take into account the aspirations of Belgian and European citizens, the very delicate political and societal situation in Europe and the progress of work in the various areas of activity of the Council of Europe. On 13 November, on behalf of Belgium, I presented these priorities to the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which welcomed them very favourably. The protection of national minorities has not been taken up as a specific priority of the Belgian Presidency. Which doesn't mean we're not gonna take care of it. As you know – as you recalled – when the Framework Convention for the Protection of Minorities was signed, Belgium made a reservation to the concept of a national minority. In the meantime, a working group met last time at my initiative last March. The issue of definition has still not been finalized internally. During the process of drawing up the Presidency's programme and priorities, Belgium consulted the Council of Europe and other international organisations and its partners. In my presentation to the Committee of Ministers, I explained the reasons that led us to determine the priorities chosen. This presentation is available on the website of the Belgian Presidency. I'm happy to send you back.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u65	Mr President, Mr Minister, despite the fact that Belgium seems to want to set up a smokescreen with our partners in the Council of Europe, which, let us not forget, is the institution that safeguards human rights, minority rights and democratic values throughout Europe, we will not fail to ask you again, if necessary, during this presidency.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u66	Mr President, Minister, as you know, 2015 will be an important year for Burundi, as several elections will take place in this partner country for development cooperation. In this context, the very tense relations between the opposition parties and the presidential party and the numerous violations of fundamental rights and freedoms, all against the background of a worrying socio-economic and food situation, are likely to "break" the climate within a few months of these important electoral deadlines. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What will be the amount of Belgium's allocation for these elections and how will they be released? Is this allocation coordinated in a European context? Many NGOs and civil society actors are calling on Belgium and all donor countries to make the financing of the electoral process conditional on free, transparent and inclusive elections. Is such conditionality provided for by our country and according to what standards? An important upstream effort to inform Burundian voters will have to be provided by Burundian civil society organizations. Does Belgium support this process in its relations with this partner country? Do you know more about the problem of armed or violent training of Imbonerakure and the risk of destabilization they pose to the region? Finally, what diplomatic attitude does Belgium take with regard to the numerous violations of fundamental rights and freedoms in Burundi, including freedom of the press and freedom of expression? Have the convictions of several human rights defenders been condemned by our country, as the European Parliament did? Does our country intend to develop a long-term diplomatic policy towards that partner country? If so, what is the cross-cutting approach between cooperation and foreign affairs, or even defence or other departments?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u67	Mr. President, Mr. Crusnière, an amount of €4 million is planned for the UNDP basketball fund. However, we wish to make the payment of all or part of this amount subject to conditions. The sum will come from the development cooperation budget and the decision will therefore have to be taken in collaboration with my colleague in charge of the department. We are under constant discussion with our European colleagues on the issue of the elections in Burundi. Some European countries, including the Netherlands and France, also intend to support the electoral process through the UNDP basketball fund. The European Union itself has provided EUR 8 million in support from the EDF budget. We would have liked the EDF Committee to postpone its decision on the release of this amount, but the Committee nevertheless took a positive decision on 29 October. However, the Committee's decision does not automatically imply payment of the amount to the basketball fund. Indeed, a meeting of the dialogue – Article 8 strengthened – between the European Union and Burundi will take place in Bujumbura in a few weeks' time. Following this meeting, the Heads of Mission of the European Union will issue recommendations. It is on the basis of these recommendations that the European Union will decide whether or not to contribute this amount to the UNDP account. With regard to your second question, we have planned to impose conditions for at least half of our support for the elections. These conditions are not yet precisely determined, but they will certainly relate to the opening of the electoral process, respect for the rights of the opposition, the Constitution and the Electoral Code. Unfortunately, the government crisis and the budgetary problems we experienced in 2014 did not allow us to release funds to support civic education projects, as you mentioned, in Burundi. In April, a report by BNUB, a United Nations mission in Burundi, fled to the press; it reported the delivery of arms to Imbonerakure, however, mainly on the basis of testimonies. A few weeks later, it was Pierre Claver Mbonimpa, head of APRODH, who circulated photos in the press which, according to him, proved the training of militiamen on the other side of the border in South Kivu, which gave him his problems with Justice. Again, it was not possible to provide material evidence, which leaves us with only suspicions. It was regrettable that the Burundian authorities had not investigated those allegations, which would have made it clearer and, no doubt, alleviated the climate. However, I would like to recall that the Burundian and Congolese armies had long denied the presence of a battalion of the Burundian army in South Kivu, in the Kiliba Onds area. It was the Burundian military hierarchy that finally recognized this presence itself, officially to fight in the region the FNL elements. The battalion withdrew from Kiliba Onds on 7 October, replaced by a Congolese battalion. Some observers suspect elements of the Burundian army have taken advantage of their presence on the spot to train Imbonerakure. I do not know whether they alone pose a threat to regional stability. What is certain is that mass violence, or even a civil war in Burundi, would have a significant impact on neighbouring countries, even as a result of population displacement. However, I note that several opposition parties also have youth groups and that violence can come from their side. That is why we call on all actors in the electoral process to ensure the peaceful conduct of the electoral process. This is part of the commitments set out in the code of conduct for the elections they have all signed. I have spoken on several occasions for the defence of fundamental freedoms in Burundi. I refer, for example, to my press release of 8 September on human rights defender Pierre Claver Mbonimpa, in which I recall the importance of opening up the political space in Burundi and of the inclusiveness of the electoral process, as well as our country's commitment to freedom of the press. Pierre Claver Mbonimpa received parole on September 26. There is no doubt that the pressure of the international community is for something. It should be noted, however, that this is not a final release. He is still under threat of a sentence of up to five years in prison. Apart from him, who is still awaiting trial, the European Parliament is not talking about the condemnation of other human rights defenders. The convicts mentioned in point E of the resolution are activists of the MSD opposition party, who were arrested following the March 8 demonstration, which degenerated into clashes with the police. I spoke in a press release on 26 March on these very heavy convictions. Since then, convicted persons have been able to appeal, but their appeals are still being processed. In addition, a number of opposition leaders are prosecuted. I hope, of course, that their case will be dealt with in a transparent manner and with due regard for the law and procedures. It would be regrettable if all opposition tenors were excluded from the electoral process as a result of irregular trials. Finally, I agree with you on the importance of a long-term policy with regard to Burundi but also with regard to the entire Great Lakes region in collaboration with other departments. That is why the government agreement provides for the drafting of a strategic note on our socio-economic, cultural and political relations with the countries of the region to assess, in particular, the results of our policy in recent years, which will allow us to consider new avenues for the future. It is clear that the synergies between foreign affairs, cooperation and defence must be maintained, as the government agreement also points out.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for all this information. I would just like to point out to the other groups that we have tabled a motion for a resolution on the situation in Burundi. I invite you to learn about it and to support it when it is put on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u69	Mr President, Minister, this is a shorter question. For a few weeks now, we have seen a trend whereby European governments and parliaments wishing to recognise the Palestinian State. On 13 October, MEPs in the House of Commons adopted a motion to that effect. The Irish Senate also asked his government to officially recognise Palestine as a state. Yesterday, the Spanish Parliament also did this. On 30 October, the Swedish Government officially recognised Palestine as a state. The High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs, Federica Mogherini, indicated that she would be happy if a Palestinian State existed at the end of her term of office. I will then come to my question to you. What is your position on this matter regarding the recognition of Palestine as a state? What do you think is the impact of this trend on the European Union's mediation position in the conflict?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u70	Mr President, Mrs Claerhout, our position on the recognition of Palestine is clear and is in line with the statement made by the EU High Representative, Mrs Federica Mogherini. Belgium has always supported the two-state solution and the establishment of a sovereign Palestinian state, which lives in peace and security with and alongside Israel. This position of principle does indeed mean, at the end of a negotiation process, the recognition of a Palestinian State. So the question is not about the principle of recognition, but is when to do so. We believe that the recognition of Palestine should be considered in the context of a negotiation process, after both parties have agreed on the main points of these negotiations, including the demarcation of the border and the status of the city of Jerusalem. Any recognition of a Palestinian State must be in relation to the facts. We must be sure that the future Palestinian State will have a territory - I have repeatedly condemned the settlements - that the security of the State can be assured, that there will be a government that can exercise its authority over the territory, including the Gaza Strip, and that the State will have an economic future. Recognising Palestine in itself will not produce any of these minimum requirements of a state to the Palestinians. We remain committed to continuing the peace process and bearing in mind the role that Belgium can play in this process in close cooperation with our European and other partners. The EU has also placed the peace process in the Middle East on the political agenda, as was discussed at the Foreign Affairs Council on 17 November. Mrs Mogherini and most Foreign Ministers expressed concern about the current situation. It also discussed the role that the EU can play in re-launching the peace talks. The recognition or non-recognition of the State of Palestine is a competence of individual states and does not prevent the EU from acting as an intermediary. We will have further discussions on this in the Foreign Affairs Council, and then perhaps there will be a debate in the Belgian Parliament, as has happened in Spain, Great Britain, France and many other parliaments. There is only one new recognition, namely that of Sweden. Furthermore, several parliaments have made recommendations that have been adopted or discussed, but so far there is only one official recognition of one European country, Sweden. As far as Belgium is concerned, I have repeated our official position for several years, supported by several majorities with almost all parties, with the exception of the far right.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u71	Debates of the European Parliament 499 by Mr Koen Metsu was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u72	Mr President, Minister, the use of prison isolation by the United States does not have such an important equivalent in other democratic countries. According to Amnesty International, more than 80,000 people are held in solitary confinement, including 25,000 prolonged detentions in very high-security prisons. This practice violates many international norms and treaties, including the right to be protected from torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment enshrined in the Convention against Torture and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Minister, what is Belgium's position in the case of a request for extradition from the United States since, according to section 2a, paragraph 2, of the Act of 15 March 1874, as amended by an Act of 15 May 2007, extradition cannot be granted if there is a serious risk that the extradited person will be subjected, in the requesting State, to a flagrant denial of justice, torture or inhuman or degrading treatment? Paragraph 3 of the same article further provides that, where the offence for which extradition is requested is punishable by the death penalty in the requesting State, extradition may be granted only if the requesting State gives formal assurances that the death penalty will not be carried out. In addition, very high-security prisons are not subject to any external supervision. President Barack Obama, in a speech at the United Nations headquarters in September 2014, said that the United States was in favour of international surveillance. Minister, do you support Amnesty International's request and President Barack Obama's call for UN Special Rapporteurs on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment to visit these high-security prisons in the country and meet with those detained in such conditions? Finally, can you tell me if you had the opportunity to address these issues in your bilateral discussions with the US Embassy?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u73	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, so far there has been no discussion with the United States Embassy on this subject, but this may still be the case. I can at any rate remind you that it is obvious that a request for extradition from the United States is a rather exceptional phenomenon. In each case, an application will be thoroughly investigated under the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister of Justice. The issue of solitary confinement has recently been addressed by the committee that oversees the implementation of the Convention against Torture within the United Nations. The United States has submitted its periodic report on the implementation of the Convention. During the dialogue between the United States and the Committee on this report, the delegation of the United States stated that solitary confinement was prohibited in the United States as cruel treatment. However, the authorities are aware of cases of violation of this prohibition. The delegation of the United States also stressed that the current Government had continued its efforts to address past shortcomings and to ensure that they did not happen again. It was solemnly reaffirmed that all detainees should be treated with humanity. The United States is committed to ensuring that offenders are held accountable. With regard to the visit of a United Nations Special Rapporteur to a country, I would remind you that it is appropriate for the Special Rapporteur and the country concerned to agree on the modalities (time, duration, place to visit) of a visit. If Mr Obama wants to go in that direction, I think that must be possible. From this point of view, we are still in favour of an agreement between the State concerned and a special rapporteur, but it is up to the US authorities to reach this agreement as soon as possible. If, as you say, President Obama wishes, this should be done quite quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u74	Mr President, Minister, I dare not say that President Barack Obama will do so. Things are complicated enough. On the other hand, in my opinion, one element remains mysterious: who is responsible for these imprisonments? Perhaps the US authorities condemn something for which they themselves are responsible? Or do other authorities have jurisdiction over such actions? I do not understand the answer. I hear yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u75	I'm just sending you the comment that was given, where they recognize the facts; they recognize gaps and try to explain how to address them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u76	I take note of this and thank you. I understand the limits as far as you're concerned. However, I hope that this issue can be addressed in bilateral relations that you may have with the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u77	I shall now give the floor to Mr Bellens, who will receive the price of sacrifice and perseverance.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u78	Mr President, thank you very much, but this is certainly due to the fellow Members who are still here, but who no longer have a question to ask. Minister, at the end of September 43 students disappeared in Mexico following a planned protest against the speech by the wife of the mayor of Iguala. Research revealed that they were arrested by the police on behalf of the mayor and apparently were extradited to a drug cartel. Apparently, they were brutally murdered by this drug cartel. After the ties between the mayor, the local police department and the drug cartel have become clear, the mayor has fled and a number of agents have been arrested. Meanwhile, Mexico is under the spell of the umpteenth disappearance of yet another case of corruption. It is clear that Mexico is in the power of the drug cartels. This weekend there were protests again, and citizens and students were asked to clarify this dossier. People would have been injured again, and even a dead man would have died. My question is this. Has there been any contact with the Mexican embassy on this file? What did they say about security in that region? What is Belgium's position on this matter? What forms of assistance could Belgium possibly provide to the Mexican Government? We have noticed that the travel advice for the Land of Guerrero has changed since 5 November. Are there any Belgian tourists on the spot? How will their situation be monitored? Are there still Belgian expats present in the region, whether resident or temporary? How will their situation be monitored? Finally. The problem of drug cartels is, of course, not confined to one region. What means does the Foreign Office have to monitor the situation in Mexico on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u79	Mrs. Bellens, there has been no contact with the Mexican embassy on this file. The usual way of working to gather information in Mexico is through our post in Mexico. Our embassy is on the ground and has the necessary networks and contacts with the Mexican government, local civil society and the colleagues of the diplomatic corps. Through a coordinated European action in Mexico, Europe and the Member States, including Belgium, have expressed their deepest concern about the events that have taken place in the state of Guerrero and have welcomed the statements and efforts made by the Mexican authorities and the President who state that there is no place for impunity. Monitoring committees were set up in the Senate and in the Chamber of Representatives, which are related to the Iguala file, and arrests took place. Investigations were opened. Belgium trusts that those responsible will be subject to severe sanctions. Mexico has not requested any kind of assistance from Belgium. Fortunately, our services have no experience in such an extremely violent and widespread problem of drug cartels and the associated corruption. No Belgian tourist with the state of Guerrero has so far reported to the Belgian embassy. Most Belgian tourists go to Cancun and the Yucatan peninsula on the Mexican east coast, which is in the opposite direction of the west coast state of Guerrero. There are 17 Belgians, eleven of whom are registered at the Belgian Embassy. They live in Guerero. They haven't called on our services so far. There are no known Belgian investments or NGOs with Belgian expats in Guerero. As a preventive measure, the embassy checked the contact details of these registered Belgians. A police attaché authorized for Mexico with residence in Washington visits Mexico on a regular basis. He has his local network and is in constant consultation with his colleagues from friendly embassies on the ground. In Mexico itself, we have our embassy with its local and diplomatic network, as well as a network of six honorary consuls spread throughout the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for your answer to this last question from today's committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-19-54-commissie-ic026x.u81	Thank you. This has also put an end to our committee meeting. I would like to thank the Minister and my fellow Members for their speedy cooperation.
