ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 December 2014, I propose that you register on Thursday afternoon's agenda: - the draft law amending the Resources Budget for the financial year 2014, No. 689/1. - the draft law amending for the second time the general budget for expenditure for the financial year 2014, No. 691/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 December 2014, I propose that you include in the agenda of Thursday afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law containing the adjustment of the budget of the Ways and Means for the fiscal year 2014, No. 689/1. - the draft law containing the second adjustment of the General Estimates for the 2014 budget year, No. 691/1. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u3	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these draft budgets. I propose that you devote a single discussion to these draft budgets.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u4	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u5	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u6	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, debates in the House of Representatives are often lively, and they will certainly be so today. Everyone expresses their convictions there without delay, without concession, and I will not fail to do so again in the coming minutes. However, the political debate, however harsh it may be, also requires respect for the one we face, attention to his person. Prime Minister, we all know that you have been through a particularly difficult ordeal in recent days. You know how sensitive I am to it. This moment is also an opportunity for me to tell you this and to express my respect for the suffering that you and your loved ones have endured. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen, on 15 October last, I told you, in this rostrum, my profound conviction that our country was entering a zone of turbulence. In question, the composition of the government, of course, but also the choice of an economic policy rooted in austerity. I didn't think I'd say that well. The social challenge is of an unprecedented scale and can be found in all the territories of the country. I believe, moreover, that if you do not change your shoulder rifle, if you do not adapt your political choices, the movements may increase. Indeed, resignation is not in the temperament of the inhabitants of this country, nor is it forgotten. Since mid-October, we have worked hundreds of hours in committee. The ministers passed, as the case may be, their large or small oral. Secondly, there was a review of the budgets and the programme law. The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget, Mr. Van Rompuy, can testify to the importance of the substantive debates that have taken place in the various committees. For the Socialist Group, the only merit of this budget is to allow a clarification of the debate. Indeed, the confused speech, including the Prime Minister, the false leaks of his majority and the half-truths of his communicators no longer resist the reality of the figures. To illustrate my point, I would like to go back to an announcement made by the MR during the election campaign that he continues to defend officially. More than an announcement, it is a solution aimed at simultaneously achieving objectives that at first glance seem contradictory: an increase in purchasing power for citizens, a significant reduction in costs for businesses and a rapid consolidation of state finances with a return to balance in 2016. When asked about the credibility of these goals, the MR replied: "It's easy, don't worry. We're going to do this by hunting for waste." It was obviously with great impatience that we waited to be able to read the budget, because we hoped to find there the magic formula transcending the reality of the budget and which would finally allow access to this wonderful world where no one should make choices and where everyone should be pleased. It is clear from the budget that choices have been made and that they cause social tensions, as they cause a multitude of victims. In order to reduce the cost of businesses, the choice is to reduce the purchasing power of workers and social recipients, in particular through index jumps. To achieve clean-up, federal public services are being sacrificed by imposing savings that I would call mortiferous. In order to rebalance its accounts, the government imposes significant efforts on workers and pensioners, but preserves shareholders – in a way, the big capital, perceived as the golden calf. I say right away that these choices, as such, are not undemocratic. They are part of the ideology of the classical right. As Didier Reynders has recently expressed, with almost touching candour: "We have the right to be on the right." That's right. You have that right. The problem is that, on the francophone side, no one has ever defended these choices before the voters.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u8	Mrs Onkelinx, I think you are mistaken on a number of essential points. You're saying that this government would save money on pensioners. That's obviously not true! You indicate that the purchasing power of low wages would be reduced. That's not true! In relation to the question of index jumps, this is not the case in relation to the measures that we are taking at the same time in terms of exemption from fees for salaries of less than EUR 2 000. I regret and note from this morning, from the beginning of the budget debate, that we are continuing this debate as it began at the time of the government declaration: to please everyone, half-truths, false leaks. We're back in the picture, in the caricature. I thought you understood, Mrs Onkelinx, that a number of Belgians blamed you and the Socialist Party for the excesses you have shown since the government statement. It would seem that the lesson has not been learned. We take note!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u9	Enjoying this intervention! Indeed, I was going to give examples of non-truthful communications. Mr. Ducrame almost takes some words out of my mouth! Here are four examples. Indeed, the government is trying to make it appear that the measure on lump sum charges compensates for the impact of the index jump on workers, while this measure is financed by consumption taxes to be paid by the same workers and that, moreover, not all workers will benefit from this system of lump sum charges, particularly those which deduct the actual costs. Second, the government is trying to make it look like it has an extremely important wellness envelope and that it's going to fix everything. What is not said is that this welfare envelope – which has been recognized in committee – is reduced by 200 million, or even 310 million, if we add the amount you have planned to compensate very partially for the index jump. Thirdly, the government is trying to make it appear that 30% of the structural effort is in revenue – we will come back to that, myself and several members of my group – while this part of the budget is resuming trivialities and changes in the rate of tax collection, not new revenue. Finally, the government is trying to make it appear that the savings imposed on public services will be made without loss of employment, without loss of quality, while it is understood, when the budget is read, that contractors will have to be laid off and that services to the community will no longer be rendered with the savings that you are going to impose. A real substantive debate took place in committee, far from the side effects, and I hope that we will continue today, Mr Ducrame, examples in support. In a moment, I will give you specific examples of the situation in which a worker or pensioner will be in. I don't understand your strategy. You said some things before the election. You continue by giving a whole series of totally false realities. I don't understand why you're persevering. Maybe there's, who knows, 120,000 reasons to play Pinocchio. I will tell you in any case that this government's austerity policy has created an unprecedented protest movement in the recent history of our country. That's why you and your group are telling bonuses to try to give the illusion of balance, to try to hide from the workers that you are leading the policy of the bosses, more precisely of some of them. As a force of opposition, we will fight to restore the truth. We have neither the means nor the will to control the social movement. It takes being stupid to believe that protesters and strikers would be willing to do all this simply to influence the composition of the government. What interests them is not the Prime Minister's name, it is the amount of their salary and pension. They fight for their rights and they're right. As the strength of the opposition, we are simply, modestly behind them to support them. One way to support them is to explain the truth about government policy. Whatever criticism it may be, we will do it! Turning to index jumps, I have already said that index jumps are a transfer of purchasing power from workers and social recipients to businesses. This choice you make, you do not justify it in the name of the shareholder's merits or the right of the rich to be ever richer. You are, I think, far too subtle for that. No, for you, this sacrifice of workers will mainly benefit the unemployed as there will eventually be job creation. You will have noticed that no one ever asks shareholders to sacrifice themselves for someone else! Redemptive sacrifice is always for the workers. If "Christ stopped in Eboli", it is certain that he was not invited to certain boards of directors. All right! You're announcing job creation. Mr Peeters announced job creation through the index jump. How did he announce it? Because he asked the National Bank, Luc Coene, to do a study. Luc Coene did this study. He executed himself with the loyalty we know him. The first problem is that the study shows that there will not be so many job creations as that and other scenarios, based in particular on reductions in selective burdens, have far more interesting results. The second problem is that these job creations create poverty, particularly among the social beneficiaries, and do not compensate for the decline in the purchasing power of workers. The third problem is that the study also shows that your index jump has a catastrophic impact on debt as there will be an impact on the public debt ratio as a result of the index jump. But you everywhere proclaim your passionate commitment to European budgetary austerity and it is assumed that you will therefore take additional economic measures to correct this debt slippage. How many jobs will these economic measures destroy? You forgot to ask the National Bank to calculate it. Maybe in a moment of distraction... I would like to add an essential element. The news on the competitiveness front is pretty good. We expect, thanks to the social partners, thanks to the measures decided under the former government, a very significant reduction in what you call the wage handicap. Clearly, once wage subsidies have been subtracted, there will be room for improvement. In these circumstances, do you not think that maintaining the index jump, while in terms of competitiveness the situation is improving significantly in Belgium, is in some way a provocation? I ask you, Prime Minister, with this news in terms of competitiveness, with the work under way at the Central Economic Council, do you not have a means of reversing, a justification for not applying this policy of index jump which is so much contested and which will greatly reduce the purchasing power of workers and social recipients? Another example is public services. In general, the efforts required of federal public services are unusually brutal. More than 1 billion in 2015, and then more than 2.3 billion in 2018, it's huge! Finally, this is also the rupture of the right, the trademark of the right: its contempt for the public thing, its distrust of the "State public service". Rather, the State is seen as a sum of costs, department by department, which can be alleviated and whatever the essential tasks each of these departments carries out. Lower costs are less state and the right is better. And linear costs are the easiest way to make the figure and give the illusion of budgetary balance. I would add that even the government is not fooled. Each of the ministers realizes that his department will have the worst difficulties in receiving such a brutal shock of savings. In fact, in committee, almost every minister went there from his recourse to the interdepartmental provision. Of course, we do not criticise the existence of such a provision; on the contrary! It is necessary to meet additional unpredictable needs. But it is not organised to ensure the planning management of the departments. What has challenged us in the debates in various committees is that this provision is the solution to everything, the answer to every budget puzzle. With every concrete question put to the government, we are entitled to the joker: we will draw on the interdepartmental provision. This provision looks inexhaustible, just like Mary Poppins' bag. In fact, I urge everyone to read the table on page 150 of the report, tabled by Mr Nollet, which shows Mr Jamar's successive promises that, in the event of a lack of budget, they would go from the interdepartmental provision. Of course, we know that this provision of 296 million, according to the forecasts, will not be able to meet all requests, department by department. In reality, based on a linear reduction of 20 per cent in the first year in all departments of the state, the government chooses to make drastic cuts without any strategic vision. It's really saving to save. The Court of Auditors has also stressed the unsustainable nature of linear reductions because, she says, in general, the savings expected are far too large to ensure the effective continuity of the public service. And for my group, quality public services, accessible at a reasonable price, are obviously essential conditions for a policy of support for recovery in particular. All departments are affected, including the major Regalian departments as a rule the policy of right-wing savings. All departments are affected. Take justice. It is well known that for several years now it has been facing a backlog of structural payments which the Justice FPS estimates to be just over 180 million structural. However, your budget also provides for an overall effort of almost 125 million euros. Your Minister of Justice, like a martyr, has commented on his budget in committee by listing all the posts that will suffer, in particular, from non-replacement. And since it will be impossible for him to accomplish his task, he dreams of convincing at another rate of sanitation, thanks to a great plan which he will lay down in February/March. He said in committee: "I'm going to table a new plan, and I'm sure my colleagues will understand my difficulty, and I'm sure my colleagues will agree to make an exception for justice in the pace of consolidation." Except, as you know, Mr Van Rompuy, what will happen in February/March? A budgetary adjustment. What does the European Commission say in particular? It is that, given the lower-than-expected growth, given the debt that is going to be larger than what has been indicated in the government's tables, an additional effort will be required. I therefore have the worst fears for a department like Justice that would have deserved an exception. I confirm that every minister of justice, for a long time, has always been granted an exception. This is the first time that Justice has been asked, without any concern for the difficulties of these departments, to make an effort like the others. So there's gonna be a lot of problems. Take, for example, the Legal Psychiatry Centre in Ghent or fees from the new prisons. We have seen in committee that five million are missing. The Committee on the review of all sexual abuse and acts of paedophilia, chaired by Mrs Lalieux, called for an increase in the budgets for associations responsible for monitoring sexual abusers. Here they are reduced. With regard to medical expenses in prisons, there is a huge deficit (42.6 million). However, this year's appropriation amounts to 7.9 million. What about the magistrates? There is no euro planned for the increase of magistrates, to respect what we agreed in our grand agreement at the base of the sixth reform of the state (judicial BHV). But we go even further as the College of Courts and Courts speaks of a shortage of 350 magistrates and more than 1,000 staff by 2019. This is obviously untenable! Take legal aid and lawyers who care for the poorest. If we don't do anything, they will still see their fees reduced and it will be untenable! And, icing on the cake, we are announced a whole series of increases that will restrict access to justice for the entire population. Ladies and gentlemen, this security government says it wants to fight impunity, radicalisation, terrorism and cuts half a million federal police funds for specific research techniques. Go understand! There is a problem in the area of justice. I think for such a vital department to live it together, you will have to make an effort. And I will support an exception that would aim to give additional resources to this so important department. Same for security. As you know, for us, security is not limited to a demonstration of force or authority in the head of state. It is a tool at the service of a broader goal, that of social cohesion, which is why we have always argued for an internal policy based on proximity, whether at the administrative or police level. Of course, it has a cost. That is why we have maintained important resources for security. From your budget, what should we retain? This has been denounced in committee, in particular by Mr Demeyer: it is no less than 177 million that you cut into the police budget. Of the 1,400 police officers we had the ambition to commit each year to fill the gaps in the police environment, there are only 800 left, much less than the 1,100 required to simply maintain the current, understaffed framework. Budgets for training are reduced. What are we going to do, since there will be fewer police officers and they will be less trained? We denounced him. The government replied, in the person of the Minister of the Interior: "We will privatize". You will entrust police missions to the private sector while reducing the operating appropriations of the department responsible for monitoring this private security sector. Yes, Prime Minister, security is obviously essential for citizens. That is why it is important that this policy be carried out with the services and for the citizens in order to preserve living together. It must not be a policy directed against services and against citizens, leading to the breakdown of the social link. The same applies to tax justice. What a debate on this subject in committee! A sentence was said: "Taxation could and should be a simple matter". When one remembers the parliamentary work carried out a few months ago to think of a tax reform and remembers that it was the crux of the electoral campaign, when one knows that in order to ensure the viability and dynamism of our social and economic model, to regain and achieve fiscal balance by 2018, one will have to dare to make significant efforts and undertake a series of reforms, one does not understand why you did not immediately choose the path of what can be called a tax revolution. Indeed, it would have really given our country a breath, guaranteed our social model and supported the purchasing power of our fellow citizens by shifting the taxation of labour income to those of capital and wealth. You have operated a mini-shift between the lump sum charges and the taxes on consumption. Why not tax capital, for example capital gains, and significantly reduce taxes on labour? We are, of course, in favour of that. Throughout the weekend, Mr Chastel proudly announced that the government would look for a billion euros in capital through the four fiscal years of the legislature: the fight against tax evasion, he says, the contribution of banks, the tax on stock exchanges, etc. According to him, these measures are very important and will bring in a billion in four years. If that were true, we could let Mr. Chastel know that it's very little. Do I have to remind you, sir, that under the previous government, while you were a minister of the budget, we went to get some seven billion euros in two and a half years. In addition, the allegation you have developed throughout the weekend is false. May I remind you that as far as revenue is concerned, bank tax is not one of the documents that we need to examine? We realized in committee that the government had an idea, but that it was not good and that there was a need to look for another solution. May I remind you that half of the exchange transaction tax is only the extension of what has been done before? May I also point out that, as far as tax evasion is concerned, the experts we have heard in committee have informed us that this would not bring any return at all, that it would not be effective. On the other hand, the settlement bonus transaction reduces the discount rate. In my opinion, you've been thinking about giving a gift to shareholders. While the previous government had increased the discount to 25%, you're backtracking. The Council of State is, moreover, without appeal in its finding. I quote: "The aim of this measure seems to be not to facilitate the financing of SMEs, but to reduce the tax on dividends". While the government presented this measure as support for SMEs, the Conseil d'État corrects the words used and re-qualifies the measure by talking about aid to shareholders. In the current morose economic climate, we could have thought of another support for SMEs. This support is indispensable. Put a correct proposal on the table and we will support it. But this will not be the case for the one currently under consideration, as it is a real insult in a time when an effort is being made by the entire population, with the exception of shareholders and large capital. Finally, there's a new tax that I don't know how to qualify. I almost want to talk about a tax on the general interest. You have in fact decided to subject certain intercommunals to corporate tax. My group will return to this issue during the review of the programme law. However, in committee, specific questions have been asked. You are planning a recipe of 200 million euros thanks to this tax. We asked in committee: you will still preserve the non-market; you will still foresee an exception, otherwise it is madness! Never at any time has the non-market sector been excluded from the scope of this taxation! And I'm asking you this question. Is this really your tax reform: protecting capital gains to tax hospitals organised in the form of cooperatives? Is this your sense of tax justice: to preserve the port of Antwerp from this new tax but to subject the intercommunal house of rest? Tell me who's in the middle of a commercial activity? The port of Antwerp or the communal rest house? I don't caricature. The debates in the committee were extremely heated and the government and government experts have never expressed their views on the matter. And so much better if just now, the Prime Minister is coming to tell us a good news, that he is going to make 200 million, while preserving hospitals, rest homes, the non-market. But if he says so, I would say, "Finally, in this absolute black, a little glow, a little good news"! But in any case, he did not say so in committee! I would like to take this opportunity to say that, as you have done, reducing the contributions on the secret commissions - in fact, it has been felt that some groups are embarrassed at the corners, as they say! - that seems totally immoral to me in a period like this. And here I look at some of the CD&V colleagues, who seem to me perfectly on the same wavelength as I do. Lowering the penalties for those who hire a black worker or pay bribes are unbearable gifts. As far as pensioners and the unemployed are concerned, it can be said that savings are going to hurt right away. I will quote one that perfectly illustrates in our eyes the choice of austerity that this government has operated and refuses to publicly assume: the abolition of the pension bonus. It was still an interesting step. It was a policy that made it possible to hold on to the employment of men, women who could have gone into early retirement. That was to allow them to have a surplus pension by clinging to employment. But what is the meaning of abolishing the pension bonus, especially since in budgetary terms it does not make much sense: 16.7 million savings compared to the 36.5 billion spent on pension payments? It is really a measure of austerity without any discernment. Another example is no longer indexing tax expenditures. The suspension of the indexation of certain tax expenditures will mainly affect the shoulders of the most modest people. We are not alone in denouncing the unfairness of this measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u10	I have to correct that. You are filling in such a way that the pension bonus is abolished. In the previous legislature, we did, together with you, retain the pension bonus, but it was shifted to one year after the opportunity to take early retirement. That means he was postponed for one year. He was cut in half and comes only at the level of the amount of bonus that one could build after five years of work. One will never retain the same amount as one had before the previous legislature for the bonus. What is now being abolished is a lot less thanks to decisions taken by the previous legislature in which you also participated.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u11	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u12	Mrs. Temmerman is absolutely right. That's a little strange justification. You're talking about the policies we've been pursuing before, with the pension bonus, with the end-of-career time credit you've also planned to cancel. It was really a thoughtful policy to put people on the job. It was an intelligent policy that produced results since, if we look with more coercive measures also, when we sum up all these measures, older people today than before are on the market. But you're doing the opposite. You go further in coercive measures, in an incredible way, and you completely cancel the pension bonus and end-of-career time credit. This is incomprehensible in the desire for an intelligent policy of maintaining employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u13	Mrs Onkelinx, in addition to the fact that we have cut the pension bonus in half together with you, and that is the reality, as Mrs Becq said, the real reason why the government is making the pension bonus disappear is that it has not worked. The study of the Federal Planning Office shows that the pension bonus, as it existed, has ensured that employees have worked for 0.1 years longer, which is just over a month. That is the reality. Therefore, instead of maintaining that pension bonus, the government decides to focus on something much more fundamental, in particular on the widening of the supplementary pension, the second pillar of pensions, to all sections of the population, because it can ensure that the pension is fundamentally improved. This is the difference. We offer an alternative to something that has never worked in the past. That is why the government has decided to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u14	Indeed, the pension bonus may not have had exclusively positive effects; it could therefore have been reformed and improved. What you are doing – and that is why I find your intervention rather strange – is that you are disinvesting the first pillar to advocate the creation of a pension supported by a sufficient replacement rate towards the second pillar. But you forget, on the one hand, that this second pillar is totally inaccessible to a number of sectors: to achieve a real pension reform with a part of the distribution, a part of the capitalisation that allows to correct today the deep inequalities of the second pillar. On the other hand, when it comes to pension strategy, you only play on age. However, all reports are unanimous: part of the population favours an extension of working time, provided that it is accompanied by an improvement in the quality of the end-of-career conditions. But you remove anything that can motivate people to commit to work longer. The employment rate of 55-64 year olds in Belgium is lower than in the rest of Europe; at the same time, it is increasing. While we had to continue our support for motivations to extend working time, you're content with stick policy. When I hear the majority argue that the prognosis of life is much longer than a few decades ago, it is true. Life expectancy is increased and fairly uniform for the European Union, provided you consider only age; you forget to point out that the prognosis of healthy life is significantly lower than in other European countries. As you like to take Sweden as a model, I note that the prognosis of a healthy woman's life in Sweden is five years higher than in Belgium. Where you could play a positive role in raising the employment rate for the 55-64 year olds, you chose a completely opposed strategy by removing positive qualitative incentives and playing only on age, accompanied by stick policy. In my opinion, it is doomed to failure.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, may I suggest that we have the debate with those who are sitting here on the floor. I'm not blaming anyone. I just want a good debate within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u16	As Mrs Fonck has responded perfectly, I will refer to her answer and I will not add it in this debate. In particular, Mr Daerden will have the opportunity in his speech... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u17	Don't be impatient, he'll come and explain! Another example of an economy without any discernment is the suspension of the indexation of certain tax expenditure, which will mainly be on the shoulders of the most modest people. We are not alone in denouncing the unfairness of these measures, since the analysis of the FPS Finance confirms this and shows that 70% of the measure will be borne by pensioners and pre-pensioners, the unemployed and the disabled. I listened to the Prime Minister who solemnly said yesterday – I let him speak with Mr.Jamar, re-explain what he said yesterday – that no pensioner would lose money. That's totally wrong! Current pensioners will see their taxes increase due to repeated non-indexation of the replacement income tax reduction. A pensioner who earns 1 650 euros gross per month will gradually lose money every year up to 400 euros in 2018 and will also suffer the index jump. My group has tabled an amendment to the programme law in committee to counter this measure. We are firmly opposed to this decision and will come back with our amendment when we review the program law. I gave two examples. But I could have multiplied them, talking about the savings in health that will affect patients; or people in difficult jobs that will have to work longer without being able to lighten their schedule with credits. I could also repeat the violence of the measures against part-time workers; if that could change, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what would I be happy about? As we do not live in a Bisounour world, I would like to clarify a situation. That of a lady, Josiane, for example, a 45-year-old cashier, head of household, who worked full-time at Carrefour before being dismissed as a result of the 2010 restructuring. She returned to work after a few months of unemployment in another large area, but only part-time. In fact, she is 19 hours a week for a salary of 1,095 euros. Currently, it receives an income guarantee allowance of 296.27 euros gross per month, paid by the ONEM. It will therefore lose, with your measurements, 148.35 euros gross per month. You will therefore impoverish these workers and create new job traps, since the difference between the cashier's salary and what an unemployed person perceives is no longer significant. I think you must have the courage of your choices and not hide behind formulas saying that no one will lose anything. That's not true! I have another example, that of a 48-year-old nurse who worked for 28 years. She receives a salary of 3,300 euros gross per month. With the index jump, she will lose 423 euros a year and this will have a structural impact for the rest of her career. If she still works 17 years, to reach 45 years of career, your index jump represents for her a loss of 8,475 euros. Do you really think she's not going to realize that? In addition, since nursing is a heavy job, she could have taken an end-of-career credit from her 50s, in two years' time. I think she knows very well today that you are removing this right from her. With your new measures, she will have to wait for 12 years because the end-of-career credit is only available from the age of 60. If we add the pension bonus measures, the early pension measures, the situation of this nurse is quite more problematic than you would suggest, namely income cuts and an increase in her situation of penitibility at work. What are you going to say to him? It is not your consumer protection proposals that will fix business! Your creed is that the consumer is responsible for his actions, that he must bear the consequences and that the best way to hold him accountable is to put him out. Your action is to stigmatize and discriminate! Thus, the only measure that you propose in the field of consumer protection and the fight against over-indebtedness is to extend the range of debts entered in the Centrale des crédits aux particuliers, by recording in it debts relating to energy, telecoms, rents or taxes. As if that wasn't enough, you are seriously thinking about allowing companies and owners to consult the Central Office in order to control the customer or prospective tenant. It's so much easier and more comfortable than really tackling the causes of over-indebtedness! This is an unbearable stigmatization of the most fragile! A word about culture and science policy. It is true that this government has not exempted any of the departments of the State from its radical programme of savings. In fact, it is in these circumstances, logically - its logic - that there are blind budget cuts in the field of culture. There is no cultural exception. The 30 million euros of savings imposed in five years on the Mint, the Fine Arts and the National Orchestra will obviously not help to support and encourage culture. Yesterday, the director general of the Mint announced measures that he is obliged to take as early as 2015: 16 dismissals and cancellations of programs such as the dance program. For the rest, there are still other types of problems. For example, for the Belgian scientific and cultural world, it is almost 600 million euros of budget that will be subject to the same linear reductions as the other departments. As has been said in committee, the figures have not been contested. Beyond all the budgetary considerations, for my group, the consequence will be that the risk of dismantling a whole part of the federal competence, which supports a form of Belgian excellence, will increase. In terms of museums, Mrs Lalieux will return, what is happening is not only ineffective but a form of federal disloyalty in relation to what had been promised under the former federal government's legislature to the Brussels government and the City of Brussels. I also repeat what is being done with the Space Agency by creating an inter-federal space agency, while the official discourse is to say "no communitization". By putting the administration under the control of this Interfederal Space Agency, it is obvious that you are moving towards a deterioration of the situation. The Nobel laureates, the scientists are petitioning, you want some, here's some! But you are also on the way to a community that does not bear its name. That's what I wanted to tell you, ladies and gentlemen. The president tells me that I have almost exhausted my speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u18	Madame Onkelinx, M. From the Velde souhaite vous interrompre.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u19	Mrs Onkelinx, thank you for your explanation. I've listened with great pleasure. I hope you will look at the document of statbel.fgov.be this afternoon. According to the key figures produced a week ago, youth unemployment rose from 18 to 23.7% between 2008 and 2013, particularly under your government. We are therefore the leader or co-leader in Europe. You spoke of the possibility of poverty as a result of this government's actions. Unfortunately, the numbers you left behind are worse than when you started. Between 2008 and 2013, the risk of poverty increased. Since 2006, Ms Onkelinx, there has been a continuous increase in bankruptcies in this country, from around 8 000 a year to 11 740 in the record year 2013. Moreover, consumer prices in this country are by far the highest in Europe. That's what you're leaving behind. I'd be modest and think about it instead of attacking our recipe here. We have eaten your flat, and have filled our belly with it. Enough material and the reality of everyday life show that what you have left behind is not positive and that it cannot go on like this. What does this government do? In an economy dependent on exports for two thirds, intervention in real cost. And that takes courage. It takes courage to tackle real costs. This is done, for example, by an index jump and by effectively reducing public expenditure. This will create competitiveness, create jobs and bring people out of poverty. That's exactly what you didn't do.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u20	We're gonna agree to address the speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u21	No problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u22	I suggest that Mrs Onkelinx replicates what Mr Van de Velde said.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u23	Mr President, I have no problem with replying to that. My colleague, I assume you are speaking on behalf of your group, and more specifically on behalf of Mr Peeters' stepmother or stepfather. You question measures that were taken by a government where three of the parties that form the current government were present. Three-quarters of the government were there, but he threw the stone at them by saying that the policy was bad! And he says exactly, like Mr. De Wever, that's the cause of everything! No, it's not the banking crisis, no, it's not capitalism! How can one believe that! The cause of everything is the socialists! Did you not know that in the big banks that hijacked the money of our fellow citizens, it was the socialists who were manoeuvring! How can you say such ridiculous things! I am proud to have worked hard with other parties over all these years to get our country out of trouble. I am pleased that the OECD, in its ranking, has been able to say, despite all the difficulties, despite all the measures that still need to be taken, that Belgium is one of the most egalitarian countries in the world. That is the result of our intervention, you see, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u24	Mr President, the previous speaker attacked the previous government. I would therefore consider it normal that the minister responsible for this competence in the previous government should also be given the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u25	I do not want to take anyone's floor, but my assessment is that Mrs Onkelinx has replied very well. If Mrs. De Coninck asks...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u26	Mr President, I would like to respond in particular to Mr Van de Velde. Maybe you don't understand, but I thought there was a division of powers in our country. The Regions and the Communities are also responsible for a large part of the policy on activation and poverty. If I am not mistaken, there is an N-VA minister working in Flanders on activation policy and the organisation of youth unemployment solutions. I will never forget that Flemish organisations and Flanders in particular rejected the installation of a work cheque for young people and did not want to cooperate to achieve results in this area. So I think it's kind of cheap to just shoot at the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u27	Mr President, I apologize, but I believe I have the right to respond to the misconceptions I hear in the House. Indeed, it is a recurring argument – which was made by the Minister of Finance and which I also heard on the banks of the N-VA – that 80 per cent of GDP consists of exports or, to put it differently, that the volume of exports represents 80 per cent of GDP. I would like to refer you to the Economic Review of the National Bank for the month of September, which shows that the value added of net exports, i.e. the volume of exports from which imported products which have contributed to the manufacturing process of these export products, reduces the volume to 30% of GDP. This means, as the National Bank demonstrates, that 70% of our economy is directed towards domestic consumption and investment. Therefore, your basic economic diagnosis, which justifies all your anti-social measures – the index jump, in particular – is bad and unfortunately leads us to increasing economic and social difficulties.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. I don't need to explain any more. You know my conviction that injustice lies at the heart of the current problem and the current tensions. In fact, some members of the government have expressed this in their own way. There is not only this feeling of injustice, Mr. Peeters. Indeed, it is unfair for certain incomes to be exempt from efforts – while our citizens must consent to them, who will plunge them into the worst daily difficulties. There's still hope. The situation can be resolved if certain provisions are changed. You said, Mr Peeters, that you wanted to do it, especially with regard to the end-of-career component. Good! If you come with serious proposals, I think we can give hope. If, depending on the Central Economic Council, we can review the index jump, it would give hope to all those who demonstrate. If we can, in the context of a large shift tax, decide that shareholders and large capital will have to participate in the budgetary balance, it will also bring hope. I believe it and I want to believe it! I fight, not against a government, but for people. That's really the message they want to send you. Rather than telling a bunch of bastards and pretending that there are no problems and that the situation won't hurt anyone, I consider it necessary to make a speech of truth and change what is unbearable. I believe that the people of this country have the right to truth and hope. It is, in any case, the will of the Socialist Party to support all the measures which can give back this hope which I call for of my wishes!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to be a lot shorter than Mrs Onkelinx, as usual, although I am only standing here for the second time. However, I would like to take this opportunity to explain a number of things. After all, we cannot ignore the fact that there is effective concern and even some anger. As a majority, we have the task of trying to explain matters, as the Prime Minister did yesterday at RTL. An economist for whom I have great admiration, Professor Theo Peeters, has recently written his memoirs. He himself says they're not memoirs, but it looks a lot like it anyway. There is a very nice sentence in it, which I would like to quote: "Economic science is very unChristian. Economic mistakes are never forgiven. They must be repaid with interest. That says a lot. That is actually the situation we are facing now, because the economic mistakes of the past must now be repaid, with interest. I would like to remind you of a number of things. Anyone who reads the recommendations of the European Commission on 28 November will be aware that we have a problem. Those who read the warning mechanism report that we received yesterday, 16 December 2014, in our mailbox find the problems very well summarised. Belgium is experiencing macroeconomic imbalances. Firstly, our government debt is above 105 %. Secondly, the market share of global exports is falling. Thirdly, we have a labour cost handicap. Fourthly, we have high private debt, up to 163 % of GDP. I would also like to remind you of Eurostat's recent figures of 15 December. They show that there are two life-size problems. Belgium is in second place with regard to excessive wage costs. Where, according to Eurostat figures, an hour's work costs an average of 38 euros in Belgium, this is 34.6 euros in France, 32.8 euros in the Netherlands and 31.6 euros in Germany. I do not happen to quote those three countries, they are our main trading partners. Moreover, according to Eurostat, Belgium is still in the top three countries where labour costs are rising fastest. This clearly shows that we have a problem. As far as average working time is concerned, the situation is at least as bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u30	Mr Vuye, I did not want to interrupt you immediately, but I have a fundamental problem with your first or second sentence, in which you say that you will not use much time but that you will explain it properly because people are worried. You say that it is our job to explain the measures we are taking properly so that they understand them. This is, if possible, an even greater insult than the measures themselves. After all, you say that you are actually taking good measures, but that people simply do not understand that. Wrong. People know very well what is going on, they know very well what is happening, Mr Vuye. They just don't agree with the index jump and the wage freeze. They don't agree with working until 67. That's the first element. So it is not a question of not understanding, it is not a question of agreeing. Your choices are wrong, it's not just a problem of communication. Secondly, you refer to Eurostat's report this week. Everyone has taken note of that. Everyone has read with great attention that the labour costs in this country are indeed an incredible challenge, that it is absurd that we continue to tax something as important and beautiful as labour. Hence the plea of many groups, of many social actors and of 86 percent of the Flemings to shift these burdens. Just because your government, of which you are the chief in this House, the leader of the largest group, which does not initiate tax shift, does not realize and does not want to implement it, the reports continue to rain like that of Eurostat. If you want to tackle these high wage costs, do something about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u31	Mr Vuye, I will not repeat what has been said here so many times. Each party agrees that the labour costs in our country are too high and that we must do something about it. That's what you said. But what measures does the government take in the 2015 budget to reduce labour costs? That's one measure, the index jump. This index jump is likely to take place at the earliest in June and then again. We do not know yet with low inflation. What the previous government had planned to do about this, you will move to 2016. The only thing you are doing now to reduce labour costs, which you consider so important, which we all consider so important, is the index jump. In other words, you allow ordinary families to pay for the reduction in labour costs. Indeed, you are not doing a real tax shift, of which so many are in favour, except this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u32	Mr Calvo, I think I have the freedom to choose the scope of my speech here. I don't really have to listen to you for that. On the tax shift I'll make you a little impatient and nervous. I'll come back very much later. Mrs. Temmerman, you mentioned the index jump. Majority and opposition know that. That happened to be the next sentence I was going to say. If you had been a little patient, I would have given you part of it right, although there will be one after that, but one after that. The index jump is two pages further. I will come back to that immediately. (Protests from Mrs Temmerman) I was talking about Eurostat's figures. The average working time in the euro area is 1 661 hours. Belgium is champion with the lowest number of working hours, especially 1 462 hours. In addition, Belgium is the strongest valley with a total of 79 hours in 2012 compared to 2008. There is a huge difference with the three main trading partners. In France, the average is 1555 hours. That is a difference with Belgium at 93 hours. In the Netherlands it is on average 1757 hours. This is a difference with Belgium at 295 hours. In Germany, the average is 1 641 hours. That's a 179-hour difference with Belgium. Indeed, we know the problems. The majority and the opposition know the problems. There's a big difference. The way in which people want to solve these problems is radically different. Let me say now that the immediate introduction of an additional tax, a rich tax, a capital tax or a capital gain tax will not reduce labour costs or increase the number of hours worked. Those are the problems that you have to deal with anyway and which we are trying to deal with. By the way, I saw that Green proposed an alternative budget yesterday. I respect that, but those choices are not ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u33	Mr Vuye, we want a reduction in labour costs. Each party said during the elections that it was not the net wages in our country that were too high, but the costs of wages. This government reduces wages by an index jump and claims that this reduces labour costs. We do not want to finance the reduction in wage costs through wages, what you do with the index jump, but through something else, namely taxes on large assets and the fight against fraud. We do not claim that a tax on capital or capital gains will reduce labour costs in any case. We want to finance a reduction in labour costs with a load on capital rather than an index jump, which you and your government do.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u34	I shall return to pages 4 to 6 of my speech. I have the impression, Mr President, that the opposition will speak more during my speaking time than I do. The high wage costs did not suddenly arrive on 11 October 2014. Those high wage costs were already there and the government was confronted with them. We must now pay back the economic mistakes of the past with interest. In its opinion of 28 November, the European Commission is devastating for the 2014 budget and for historical debt. Belgium is in fourth place of care children, together with those countries that still have the biggest road to go. A few days ago, the Alert Mechanism Report reiterated the risks posed by high public debt to growth, employment and financial stability. The same report by the European Commission is much less negative about the 2015 budget plan. What is the conclusion? I quote: "In addition, the Commission considers that Belgium has made some progress on the structural part of the budgetary recommendations made by the Council in the framework of the European Semester 2014 and asks the authorities to do more. I can only read that the European Commission is asking for more Michael Government and not less Michael Government. When the Court of Auditors reported to the Finance Committee, I heard a similar language. When the opposition asked Counselor Rudi Moens to list the positive points of the budget, he listed the following positive points. It is a very serious effort, following the European path. There are few or no one-off measures. What he considered to be particularly important was the structural measures in social security, namely unemployment and pensions. And there are no ESA corrections, unlike the past. It is a pity, however, that this is a setback for our government and that we now have to pay back the interest in the mistakes of the past, at a time when it is difficult, the recovery in the euro area is difficult. We must not turn our backs on this. When I look at the estimates of economic growth over the last few months, I can only see that they are always lower. In September, the Monitoring Committee estimated economic growth at 1.1 % in 2014 and 1.5 % in 2015. Two months later, the IMF came to a lower figure: 1 % in 2014 and 1.4 % in 2015. In November 2014, the European Commission was already at 0.9 %, both for 2014 and 2015. The same figure of 0.9 will also be published by the National Bank in December. So it is quite clear that the government must take the cow by the horns and catch the cow by the horns. I'm sure I'd like to explain a few things. The purpose of this budget is to restore people's hope and to improve the competitiveness of businesses. The index jump is a non-increase of 2 %. In addition, the announced wage moderation measures for 2015 and 2016. Not in my opinion, but according to the National Bank, these measures generate more than 60 000 jobs. Other studies to which the Minister of Finance referred several times, namely of Kings and Abraham in 2010, estimate that higher and go to eighty thousand. I would like to stress that this is precisely social. Trying to create more jobs and create more jobs according to the National Bank also means that social security remains affordable. Creating more jobs is also the best way to combat poverty. It is also the best way to eliminate income inequality. The report from two days ago, the alert mechanism report, makes it very clear that income inequality has increased most in Member States where unemployment has also increased most. If this income inequality is to be reduced, jobs must be created. Please, let us not make a caricature of the budget; the budget is not a social massacre. In this country, 32 percent of GDP is spent on social security. The OECD reports say precisely that in Belgium the redistribution is particularly good through social security. What's with the budget? We have been drawn to the voter with the slogan that we want to reward works. That is what happens, and that is a political choice, in the sense that personal income tax is reduced by the flat-rate deduction of professional costs. In view of the fact that this flat-rate deduction is included in the farm tax, everyone who works in this country will see the difference between this government and its predecessors at the end of January. In addition, the index jump. People were just laughing about it; it might be in June or July. According to the Planning Bureau, it would be effective July 2015. When the index jump takes place in the middle of the year, while the flat-rate deduction of professional costs starts to run from January, this is the measure that will increase purchasing power for many families. In De Tijd this weekend it was calculated nicely. For a family with two schoolchildren, one partner working full-time and the other part-time, this means an increase in purchasing power by 252 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u35	Once again you say that all those people who come on the street because they have a problem with the index jump, among other things, did not understand. I know that your party has very little affinity with trade unions, social organisations and workers who manifest. That is why I would like to quote the index jump from yesterday's interview in De Tijd, with ING's main economist. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u36	Time, that's the Pravda, isn't it, Mr. Dewael? And ING is suddenly the ACV's study department. So you try to push away all the criticism, and you remain deaf and blind to the social outrage. We continue to try to give that criticism, Mr Van Quickenborne, a voice in the parliamentary debate. That's what this assembly is for. ING's main economist strongly criticises the index jump and calls it both socially and economically counterproductive. Mr Colmant, also not a left-wing speaker, says that the index jump is an idiotic measure that applies the recipes of the 1980s in a climate of deflation. You calculate that the index jump costs an average employee 276 euros a year and a family with two earners 780 euros a year. You say that the people who argue for a tax shift and for a fair contribution from the greatest assets are the tax parties. You, Mr Vuye, and this majority, put working people on a lifelong tax increase, in particular an index jump that is not offset by other measures in this coalition agreement and in this budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u37	Mr De Roover, you have the floor, but I would remind you of the principle that we address the speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u38	I read today that both Vanden Houte and De Boeck stress in a reaction that the index jump is not a stupid measure and that it should not disappear. Mr Calvo, you have to quote or not quote.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u39	One thing that economists have in common with state law specialists is that when ten are put together, they get ten different opinions. I would like to stress once again that the reality of this budget is more than 62 000 jobs and that work is effectively rewarded. That is the second point that is very important for the N-VA. I'm getting to the how and why of that index jump. I refer again to the IMF's latest report of 15 December 2014, which states that there are two major problems: underemployment and excessive public spending. Moreover, the IMF says that these two are mutually reinforcing. Too high public spending in social security makes it easier to exit and the more people exit, the more difficult it becomes to pay social security and keep it affordable. That is why, and that is effectively a different philosophy from that of the opposition, we think that creating jobs and working is solidarity, because working also means contributing to social security. We know that an index jump will lead to a slight drop in consumption. We also know that the index jump will have a slightly negative impact on public finances. However, this also means that the government will bear a large part of the index jump. The index jump will give a positive shock to competitiveness. That's important. Belgium is a small open economy where internal consumption is of little importance. It is precisely from competitiveness, exports and external consumption that added value is being achieved. I can only observe that serious scientists such as Kings and Abraham claim in 2010 that an increase of 10% in exports in the industrial sector increases employment by 0.86%. This is a very detailed study, which has looked at the data from ten thousand companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u40	Mr Vuye, since you are quoting the IMF's report very selectively, I will add to what the IMF said in the same report. Firstly, the index does not need to be abolished. That is what the European Commission is saying. Between the lines it is said that there is no need for an index jump. Secondly, Mr Vuye, capital must be taxed more heavily. That's what the IMF says. I didn't hear you say that a moment ago. Thirdly, the burden on labour must be reduced. I've heard you say that a lot. But how should that be financed according to the IMF? Not because of an index jump, Mr Vuye, but because of a tax shift. That is what the IMF says, and that is what the Supreme Court of Finance says. However, you did not say that. Fourthly, the IMF says that it is against linear savings. The savings must not be linear. They must be motivated by priorities, something this government does not do. What else does the IMF say, Mr Vuye? Public investment is being cut back, just as significant growth investments in transport, energy infrastructure, education and social housing are needed. Indeed, that is not for this government but for the Flemish Government, of which your party is also a member. The Flemish government does nothing about public investment. On the contrary, they are being phased out. According to the IMF, Mr Vuye, Belgium should call on the EU to save less. I quote: "There are good reasons for Belgium to use the flexibility provided by the budgetary rules in the euro area. That's what the IMF report says. So, when you quote it, quote it completely!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u41	Mr President, I would like to say two things. Firstly, we are not abolishing the index mechanism. That's not gonna happen. Secondly, you say on several occasions that I have not said a number of things. Honestly, I don't think you've heard a few things. At the beginning of my speech I said that at the end I will discuss the tax shift in great detail. I will go into this in great detail too, but later, if it suits me. The National Bank's data teach us that the reduction of employers' social security contributions from 2016 will improve competitiveness compared to our three main trading partners. Yesterday we heard that the Central Council for Business is believed to be, because the report is still confidentially estimate that the wage handicap would have fallen to 2.9 %. That would be a light in these for the rest of the difficult times. It can only encourage us to continue and improve competitiveness. Why is the index jump happening now? After all, it is now almost an historic moment, with historically low inflation. As one says, one must catch the birds when they fly lower. The European Commission also mentions in its report on the index that the whole wage-setting system would best be reviewed. That is not in the coalition agreement, just as the capital gains tax is not in it. Allow me to clarify quite freely, for those who wish to consult them, that there are a number of very interesting proposals in the congress texts of the N-VA in January-February 2014, inter alia, to bring wage formation to sectors and companies and to work with all-in accords. The congress texts of the N-VA of January-February 2014 are very much in line with what Europe is saying. As regards deleveraging, Belgium currently has a debt ratio of more than 105 %. The most recent figure I found for 2014 is 106,6 %. So we seem to be above the 60% reference value. I am also confident that the European Commission is predicting a nominal deficit of 2.8 % of GDP for 2015, while the draft budget predicts 2.1 %. However, the report must be read in full, because there are reasons for this. The budget was submitted on 15 October and used the then most recent figures of the Monitoring Committee, in particular those of September 2014. I have just listed a number of estimates of economic growth. You have seen that these estimates are getting worse and worse, which explains the difference. Moreover, the European Commission takes into account only those measures which were sufficiently well known and developed at the time the budget was presented. A number of measures are therefore not taken into account. However, it is unthinkable that the impact of these measures would be zero. I refer once again to the Finance Committee and the presentation by Counselor Rudi Moens, who said that this budget is making a very serious effort and follows the European path. Just as the countries that have followed the European Commission's recipes, the National Bank also writes, are now showing the highest growth rates, namely Spain, Portugal and Ireland. In those countries that have followed the so-called newer recipes, such as France, the economy has been stagnating since 2011. Oh irony, Mr Dedecker has also written a fine piece of opinion on this, it is like Pierre Moscovici, the former Minister of Economy of François Hollande, who was invited to announce that our Michael administration has done a quick and good job and that reforms are moving in the right direction. The IMF's most recent report is also very positive about the measures taken by the Michael administration, namely the extension of the career and the reduction of the bridge pension. The reduction in labour costs through the index jump also gets particularly good points. So I can only say that, after the European Commission, the IMF is not asking for less, but also for more Michael administration. Now I come to the tax shift. On this point, the government agreement states: "The government will control expenditure and implement a parafiscal and fiscal reform "to finance a sufficiently large reduction in the burden, significantly reducing the tax burden on labour consisting of tax and parafiscal charges, taking into account national and international recommendations in this area." So far, this government has achieved a tax shift of EUR 2 billion. That can be made fun of, but it's not nothing. However, I would point out that the representatives of the European Commission in the Committee on Finance have replied to opposition questions that Belgium is rather naive and doctrinary about this tax shift, as if it were merely a shift in the burden of labour towards capital. Similarly, the recommendations of the OECD, the High Council of Finance and the IMF are proposed. What Europe is asking for, and what the IMF is asking for, is also in the report that has just been quoted. I quote from the documents that Europe is asking for: 'To make the tax system more balanced and fairer'. In other words, an overall reform aimed at reducing the tax burden on labour, simplifying the system as a whole, making VAT more efficient, broadening the tax bases, reducing the number of deductions, closing the loopholes and eliminating subsidies with harmful environmental consequences. The IMF is also asking for such a shift, and that is something other than a simplistic rich tax. The N-VA congress texts of January and February 2014 state paragraph 3.2.2, which deals with making taxes fairer and simpler. At the time, we had a great deal of attention to this in the texts of the Congress. Frankly, when, after years of bad policy, a wealth tax is proposed as some sort of immanent justice, it only serves to cover up the bad policy. I refer again to Theo Peeters. He writes about the rich tax that people mainly think and act in the short term: "An advantage that can be reached in the short term seems more certain than an advantage that is present in the long term. A short-term advantage makes us happy, even if that advantage represents a risk for later." That's just the story of the rich tax, a short-term advantage and long-term disadvantages.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u42	Mr Vuye, you are right to say that the reports by the IMF, the OECD and the European Commission, which are always subject to a tax shift, are not unambiguous, that other emphasis is laid on each report and that there are suggestions that I disagree with, for example, the increase in VAT. I am not here to read out the report of the European Commission; we have our own programme, you have your programme, you read it out of yours and we bring it out of ours; we did it yesterday, we calculated it line by line. There is, however, a rather large consensus among the European institutions, when it comes to tax shifts and reforms, about the shift to pollution. Quite specifically, and this is also seen in society's eyes, we are talking about massive aid in our country for commercial vehicles, subsidies for traffic jams, subsidies for pollution, subsidies for diseases. We want to have that debate, but unfortunately, at the time when it is put on the agenda by various civil society players, there are fascinating ideas about this in employers' circles, such as the mobility budget, your party chairman says that the debate on commercial vehicles is not taking place. So you are ill placed to say that the opposition is selectively quoting from international reports, because your party, your party chairman and the majority have at least the same problem in that regard. There are social debates, but when it comes to pollution, the door has been shut by your party chairman. That too is a very unfortunate matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u43	I return to the thought of Theo Peeters. What we need to do now is certainly not to introduce a new tax. After all, we already have a government surplus of more than 50%. We must, however, reduce expenditure. That's much more important. The position of the N-VA is very clear. We are against tax fraud. We have zero tolerance for tax fraud. This is also mentioned in the congress texts of January and February 2014 under points 2, 3 and 4. You asked me a lot of questions about the issue when presenting the coalition agreement. That's why I'm quoting them now. After all, you did not seem to know them at the time. With regard to tax evasion, it is clear that there is an ethical limit for us. We understand the anger that exists on a number of issues. In any case, we are opposed to shady foreign constructions. A capital tax already exists in Belgium. There are several, such as inheritance taxes, registration fees, property tax and withholding tax. I wonder, moreover, what kind of tax would not be a loss of property? After all, the definition of a tax itself is that a tax is an impairment of assets. However, we are in third place in terms of collection. Unfortunately, it is mainly the middle class who pays the tax. After all, the higher class will find a number of ways out. It's not an option for us to tax the middle class anymore. Finally, I have already indicated here in the Chamber that a capital gain tax can be discussed, albeit in the context of a real tax shift. This means that taxes and charges on labour are falling. This also means that we do not want to implement them as a result of budgetary control, just to close some pit. That's not the point. For us, it must be a question of applying the principle of fair taxation. This means an exemption for small savers and a tax that is not charged or ends up on the shoulders of the middle class. There must also be a solution for the negative values. I remain very general on the subject. It should also be an open discussion. I decide. The current government's efforts are enormous. However, we have a tax burden of around 48% of gross domestic product, with public expenditure of 53% of gross domestic product and debt of more than 105 percent. The most recent figure is 106.1 %. Less than a quarter of 60- to 65-year-olds work. Few countries do worse in that respect. The effective retirement age is 59 years. We are therefore far from the age of 65. According to the IMF, about one Belgian in four still works in the private sector. So those numbers are even worse. In any case, with this budget I dare to look the N-VA-chooser straight in the eye. We went to the elections with the promise to reform, reward work and strengthen competitiveness. We are not kamikaze pilots, which raise the level of government property, which is already above 50%. I also dare to look the European Commission and the IMF in the eye with the proposed budget. What they ask is not Elio II, but more Michel I.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u44	Mr. Chair, Prime Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, since the government statement, two months have passed. These weeks have been quite intense. After the debates in committees on policy notes, we will have to evaluate them; we agreed in the Conference of Presidents. They will have to be evaluated on a charge and on a discharge basis. We have come together in the heart of the matter, the budget debate and the programme law. It was, indeed, lively. Sometimes maybe a little too much. Should we recall the incredible atmosphere of the government statement? Two weeks ago, the opposition left the Chamber following a procedural decision. We sincerely regret that these weeks have been so glazed, in an extremely important budgetary debate, by a policy of permanent incidents. Like many Belgians, I was marked by the words spoken in this rostrum by the Prime Minister in the government statement. He wondered if mutual respect was still possible. I think that for the future, and it is not a pious wish as Christmas approaches, but rather a sincere call, our exchanges will have to be more respectful. There is political confrontation, it is necessary for the functioning of democracy. Perhaps we will have to place ourselves more in this notion of mutual respect as regards the spectacle we give to the Belgians. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I will give you a number of confidences. No doubt you will not admit it today, but perhaps later, in your memoirs, you will write that it seems to you to have been a little far away – I have faith in the retreat that you can take – in the caricature, in a form of misinformation. I'm sure you're mad that you've been that far. Mrs Onkelinx, dear Mrs Onkelinx, you have been extraordinary, extraordinary caricature. As I told you from the front, I thought this page turned for various reasons. No. I repeat some of your words this morning: "Government of Pinocchio", "they hide the truth from the citizens". Mrs Onkelinx, we are not liars and we do not like being called liars. Beyond this insulting and shocking expression, throughout the last few weeks, we have had to undergo quite a lot of creative qualifications on your part: of course, the fantastic internet development on "injust.be", very constructive, very deep by its analysis of the situation, the "liberal junge", the "museum of horrors", the "noise of boots", a "budget of farces and catches", even "winepots". And you weren't the only one, you made emulations. Our friends on the far left have also expressed themselves in a rather caricatural or even violent way. In the Committee on the Interior, the representative in the Chamber did no less than express that it would be a "government of Pinochet". After Pinocchio, Pinochet. It's probably an ideological closeness that is expressed through the same root... For the Greens, we would be "slaves who slap the citizen". I won't go back to other invectives. We believe, at MR level, that other channels of debate and dialogue are undoubtedly possible for the opposition. I would like to reiterate here, on behalf of the Reform Movement and the majority as a whole, that we fully respect your convictions. We simply ask you to respect our goals, to respect our obsession to create employment and to sustain the country's social security. But there is at least one strong element – let's try to build bridges! – on which you can only join us: institutional peace. You will only be able to join us on this aspect. Indeed, if we talk so much about the economic and social aspects today, if we address ourselves at the heart of what is in the interest of the Belgians, it is because this government has succeeded in institutional peace.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u45	Mr President, I have let Mr Ducarme make his introduction, which is obviously longer than what he has to say on the substance! Wait, Mr. Ducrame, it's just a matter of chronometer! If you consider that every time we ask for the word, it is contempt, we will not have finished the day! Your memory may be missing at times and I can understand your stress in the gallery. Therefore, let me remind you that institutional reform was adopted not by this government, but by an alternative majority under the previous legislature, with the contribution, in particular, of what you are criticising today. And if, today, you can benefit from some form of peace, it is because others, who were not part of the government, came at that time to help stabilize. The problem is that the stabilization we wanted at the time, you are slowly destroying it and inside your government!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u46	Mr Nollet, I believe we have been fundamental players in this sixth reform of the State. If the Reform Movement had not taken on its responsibilities at the time, this reform could not have taken place. You're teaching history. For my part, I'm talking about the future. In this regard, there is an institutional peace guaranteed for a legislature, a peace for that country at the institutional level. You can only adhere to this reality. Yes, we have carried out the sixth reform of the State. Yes, it has to come into effect. Yes, we are proud of that. Yes, we are also proud to be able to propose, today, to the Belgians - from the North, the Centre and the South - debates that affect them more concretely. That is why we are addressing a number of fundamental social and economic reforms within the framework of this government agreement. Therefore, in my view, you can adhere to this institutional peace achieved by the majority in place. However, this allows us to approach a fundamental reality that is socio-economic and to arrive at a finding that no one can deny, namely the reality of the country. In truth, the moment is difficult for Belgium. The share of public expenditure in our GDP is 54.3%. Our debt is 390 billion, or 105 per cent of our GDP. We have to repay 12 billion interest on the debt every year. In recent years, the pension budget has increased from 25 billion to 36.5 billion in seven years, an increase of no less than 67 per cent. In recent years, the employment rate for the 20-64 age group has declined from 67.6% in 2010 to 67.2% in 2013. The wage gap remains even if it narrows. It is now in the order of 2.9%. We're not the one who's making that move. The latter is the result of investigations. The wage gap, I repeat, continues to exist and to weigh on our businesses and, consequently, on employment. Here, too, we make an observation. The wage level in our country is 21.4% above the EU average. The hourly wage cost in Belgium is EUR 39.6, compared to an average of EUR 34 in our neighbours: France, the Netherlands and Germany. That too is a reality! That too is a truth!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u47	Mr. Ducrame, if I am all right with you, first of all, and that is interesting, you confirm that the wage cost gap has decreased to 2.9%; that is your figure. It's interesting for the rest of the events in the coming months. Secondly, you plead to move faster towards a tax shift, since obviously you see with us that the cost of work is still too high today. I have a question. Goddamn it! Why don't you move faster on this shift, concretely? Why postpone the debate until March? While you have the observation in your hands. We can share it: indeed, the cost of work is too high. The proposals, in particular, that the Greens have reformulated these days allow you to speed up the tempo and narrow this gap. Why don't you take this opportunity?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u48	You're asking me to move faster. If you stop me constantly, I won't move any faster in my presentation. Of course, I intend to address the issue. I'm asking you to be patient. I see you're eager for debate. I think it's interesting. I also saw your budget proposal. I think it might be a little late. Is it a shame to present an alternative budget – which we are going to adopt here in two days? You always ask for details about numbers, transparency, and that's great! If you believed in yourself as a minimum in your proposal, you would have tabled it earlier, so that we could debate it in committee, but not two days before the debate in the House and the vote on the budget. But we will come, if you let me continue, on the question of tax reversal. This is obviously important in the approach of this government, of this majority. So there is one observation. I've drawn up a few elements. We must act in the light of these socio-economic realities. Otherwise, if we do not act, which sometimes seems rather distant, these socio-economic crises which a number of countries in southern Europe are facing, will affect us; and one day we will explain to the Belgians why we must take measures as painful as those taken in Portugal or Spain. We'll have to go explain it together. We do not wish. We want to take the measures in time and time. What is involved in these measures is, of course, savings. We need to clean up the state's finances. Mrs Onkelinx, it is not because we make savings, we do not like the state. This centre-right government likes public service. He simply thinks that we can save money, optimize public service and do as well as other European countries that sometimes do better than we do with less! We know the truth about it. We are above 54%; Germany is at 44.3%; the Netherlands is at 46.8%, Sweden at 53.2% and the European average is at 48.5%. So we have a margin in terms of economy and - the Socialists will remember - there have been a number of important savings also under the previous government. Yes, we love the state; yes, we love public services; yes, we want them to be more effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u49	Mr Ducrame, I hear you talking about savings, but I believe that there is a fundamental difference between making savings for the pleasure of making savings and making savings that make sense in relation to the policies that need to be carried out. I take the example of Justice. You cut the Justice budget drastically, even though for 2014 alone, we are already unable to pay the bills. Justice is a key department in terms of the effectiveness of policies to be pursued, particularly in the security field. Your speech is incomprehensible. You consider that savings must be made all at once, and to do so, you use the technique of linear savings - for everyone the same regime - where targeted savings should be achieved by preserving key policies and their effectiveness.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u50	Mrs Fonck, save money for fun! Frankly! You've used us to images a little more striking than this one! They're not savings for fun. I understand your frustration. You mentioned it in the press a few days ago. You'd like to be next to that majority's CD&V to get your hands on it. I also wish you had returned to this government. For a number of years, I have seen your added value in terms of proposals. It's quite tangible. Indeed, I regret, in view of this desire that you publicly say – and I say bravo for this courage – that your party president did not let you go, even with him, in order to bring your specificity, your expertise in terms of choice in relation to the savings that we should have achieved – I will come to this – on the question of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u51	Mr President, I will of course allow Mr Ducarme to continue his speech, but I cannot let what he has just said pass.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u52	It was in the press. You were sad not to be next to the CD&V in the majority to support it in this majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u53	Mr. Ducrame, you haven't read to the end. I fully accept my remarks and I will explain them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u54	I hope so!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u55	You haven't read the second part of the article. That's the whole difference between you and us. I said it and I say it again here that the NVA is icy! I found it interesting to be with the CD&V because I believe that Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters is the only one who has so far made a clear commitment to genuine social dialogue and not to a policy of incantations for bogus social dialogue. In fact, we say we reach out, but on the other hand, we close the doors of the subjects to put at the heart of the social dialogue as quickly as possible. You were talking earlier about institutional peace. Mr Nollet is right to repeat how much institutional peace has been worked on in the previous legislature. What I would like to hear above all from this government is a fight about the issue that today must be at the heart of what Belgium must be able to achieve, that is to say, social peace. Between the statements of each of your majority, we hear everything and its opposite. It's the open door! It is the so-called open hand, but at the same time it is as many statements that set the fire and close every time the possibilities of social dialogue. We will continue to work, including from outside, to move the Schmilblick forward on social consultation. But we don't want a fake concertation! We expect subjects that we are entitled to discuss and for which we are entitled to expect progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u56	Mrs. Fonck, some of your comments ice me! The ministers will answer! We naturally appreciate the intensity of the work carried out by Kris Peeters in terms of the willingness to work together. It is mandated by the government; it is mandated by the Prime Minister; it is mandated by the majority to achieve one of the central objectives of this government agreement, which is, beyond the words written on paper, consultation. As the Prime Minister has often reminded us, we want to put this majority and this government's approach in concert. Of course, there's a game! We're told that we're not really concerting, that we're just talking about it. No! I take you to the word in relation to what you have just indicated, and thank you for supporting Kris Peeters as you do! Only continue to support it with us, but support the government as a whole in this desire to deliver a number of results beyond consultation. It's our choice. I come to the founding element of this government agreement: job creation. Our President, Olivier Chastel, reminded us: to guarantee our social security, we must create jobs, we must create shared wealth. At European level, Belgium has committed to an employment rate of 73.2% in 2020. We are still far from it! At the Reform Movement, our line has always been clear: more jobs in the private sector allow us to guarantee a better funding base for more jobs in the care, social assistance and public services sectors. If we are also committed to job creation, it is also to ensure social security. When I speak of the founding elements of this government's approach, that is the case. That's why this index jump is important. It is not we who indicate that the index jump as we anticipate it will create jobs. It's the National Bank. You all know that the reports of the National Bank are extremely reasonable and reasonable. When we are told that index jumping will create 33,000 jobs, this is a fundamental element.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u57	Mr Ducrame, index jumps can be interesting for exporting companies. But I would like you to be able to develop your reasoning with regard to businesses and especially SMEs, to which we are particularly attentive. In Belgium, SMEs contribute the most in terms of job creation and operate mostly only through internal consumption. How will they be able to resist this index jump? My second question in relation to your plea: have you already calculated the cost of the masses of money mobilized for this index jump? This is $2.5 billion if I followed the reasoning of your majority. Do the calculation: 2.5 billion mobilised to create 33,000 jobs. This amounts to 75,000 euros in employment. Doesn't that shock you? Is it not a subsidized and subsidized economy? Isn't it worse than what's done elsewhere and that allows people to...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u58	Thank you, Mr. Nollet. I have a lot of faith in your reflection, your word, your analysis. Forgive me for putting you in the balance of a number of international organisations, such as the European Union, the IMF and the OECD, which tell us that index jump is creating jobs. At the level of the National Bank, we are told that 33,000 jobs will be created. You are trying to keep finding a number of wrongs at Ecolo about the index jump, but are those responsible at European Union level and the bodies I mentioned idiots? The National Bank, are they idiots? Is it not enough in terms of conviction that this measure is creating 33,000 jobs that could make you join us? This is also where you have been somewhat excessive in relation to what would be the social impact of this index jump.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u59	In this respect, Mr Ducrame, to be honest, it must be said here that the study by the National Bank, which the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Employment presented to us in committee, deals only with certain measures decided by the government. It is clearly partial and does not take into account measures which, on the other hand, could have a negative effect on employment. That's a first element. Second, you invoke the IMF and the OECD. But I also hear – and it's still interesting and I imagine it's talking to you, too – what the neutral union of the independents, the Union of Middle Classes, big bosses or economists like Bruno Colmant, who are not "gauchos", say to take up an expression that is dear to you. All these people and institutions have said: let's stop arching on the index jump because, in the background, there will also be negative effects. And we know that when we reduce purchasing power, we have an effect on consumption and, in particular, on our small and medium-sized enterprises, our small businesses. There, you will also have a negative impact. So, Mr. Ducrame, don't just listen to the IMF and the OECD, but also hear bosses say at home that this index jump will not necessarily be something positive. On the contrary!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u60	I have heard, I have read a number of reports, studies from associations, organizations that bring companies together. And these abounded in a completely opposite direction to the one you indicate. They indicated that the index jump had to be maintained. And they are not representatives of multinationals; they are, among other things, the Belgian Federation of Enterprises. So when you talk about caricature, let's get a little bit back on the ground, let's go back to reality. We will make this index jump because all the data in our possession today confirms that this approach will create jobs. Apart from the index jump, there are a number of other results, linked to our employment policies. Thus, the National Bank estimates that 59,000 jobs will be created. And – you're going to come to it – from a social point of view, we won't impact the purchasing power of the lowest wages. It is true that we are witnessing a war of numbers, but the reality is that the lowest wages, those of less than EUR 2 000, will not see any impact on their purchasing power. However, this category still accounts for 70% of Belgians. The effort required by this index jump will rest on the strongest shoulders and not on those of the lowest wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u61	No one has yet been able to tell us at what level of income the index jump would be corrected: the ministers have given us at least five different versions... But, Mr.Ducarme, according to what you just said, you're right. It is good to admit it here: the middle classes will contribute the most and the hardest.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u62	70% of Belgians earn less than 2,000 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u63	No, I say that it is the middle classes that will contribute the most to the effort. It is all the more incomprehensible that you refuse to take into account what the OECD is saying, that is to say, to make a real tax shift and to shift the cost of labour to other sources, particularly on compulsive speculation or capital income. By doing it intelligently! You tell us that, in the background, the smallest incomes will be protected. Mr Ducrame, the middle classes will be the most heavily involved: you press them instead of making this real shift in taxation from work to other sources of income.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u64	Mr President, I am surprised that this House is once again starting a number debate, when we have been given clarity and clarity by the government and by the other Members of this House in the committee. Mr Nollet, you say that this index jump is a very expensive thing when you look at it per job. Now I have read that you are in favour of reducing social security contributions. The reduction of charges is one of the points of your programme. If the costs of around €900 000 are reduced in 2016, this will create 19 000 jobs according to the National Bank's calculation. The index jump is about €2 billion and creates 33 000 jobs. You say that index jump is a very expensive business. It is as expensive as a reduction in social security contributions, seen in budgetary terms or in subsidy per job, Mrs Onkelinx. That would still be public money. A reduction in charges is as expensive as an index jump, according to the National Bank's calculations. A second element that came out very clearly in the committee is the statement by the National Bank that real disposable income will decrease by an average of 0.4% in 2019 due to the operation of the index jump, adjusted by the flat-rate tax. So 99.6 % of disposable income remains standing after the index jump. I read today that the lower oil prices will increase the Belgian economy by 0.25 % in the following years and by 0.5 % in 2016. I read in the newspapers that every citizen will see the energy bill fall by EUR 417 because of that cheap oil, Mrs Onkelinx. You say that purchasing power is fundamentally affected by the index jump, but then you have to look at the effects, and I am not talking about the effect on employment, which will also create purchasing power. If you had seen the discussion in committee, you would know that all these figures have been rejected by the government and that we have discussed them for hours. Now you are pretending that there has been no discussion in plenary. I find that totally disappointing. That is a deception of public opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with Mr Van Rompuy. I find it rather hallucinating when I hear Mrs. Fonck. Together in the Social Affairs Committee, we followed up on the subject of Work. Minister Peeters has given a very clear answer to the question of job creation and the consequences of the index jump. The National Bank of Belgium has calculated that 60 000 jobs would be added. There would also be a loss of purchasing power of 0.4% of total income by 2019. Financially specialized newspapers such as De Tijd and its French equivalent have announced this weekend that in 2015 the disposable income, le pouvoir döjachat des familles augmente en 2015. Two-earners will improve in 2015. That is what we are doing with this government! Those who support the economy, those who work and contribute to the system will progress in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u66	Mr Ducrame, we have received the report from the Central Economic Council, which contains good news, since the wage gap has been reduced to 2.9%. What bothers me in the projections produced by the various institutions is that we assume that in Germany, France and the Netherlands – our main competitors – no measures will be taken to compress wages. The economic models defended today are to argue that in Belgium wages will be compressed, while nothing in this direction would be undertaken by our competitors. Mr. Ducrame, I would like to question this paradigm which seems quite illogical to me. Indeed, when I hear Angela Merkel announcing, through collective agreements, a wage cut and that the same will is expressed in the Netherlands, I want to ask you a very simple question. If the neighbouring countries perpetuate this downward spiral and continue to reduce wages – and you will have understood that we do not share this ideological consensus that wages in Belgium are a problem – what do you intend to do? Will you persevere in this competition down to be able to compete better with neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u67	Mr Van Rompuy, I find it rather strange that we should discuss part of the debate that has been held in committee but not the other part. In committee, no party denied that an index jump would create jobs. The figures of the National Bank were not denied at all. However, it has been said that an index jump will reduce purchasing power in any case. All the measures now being taken by the government prove that, by the way, because consumer confidence is falling. I'm not saying that, the National Bank says so. I still haven't received an answer to the question of what this government will do in 2015 for a real wage reduction. Except for the index jump, she doesn't do anything. If we want a real reduction in the burden of wages and if we finance them with an added value tax and a tax on large capital, we will create almost twice as many jobs as with an index jump. That's what the Plan Bureau's calculations show. Why is that? Quite simply, with an index jump one reduces the purchasing power which also destroys a lot of jobs. If one is so concerned with the creation of jobs and the reduction of the wage burden, then a real reduction in the burden of wages must be achieved by financing them with an added value tax. Then we have a real reduction in the burden of wages, which gives us twice as much job creation as this government is doing now.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u68	Mr. Ducrame, please continue! Ladies and gentlemen, we agreed that we would respect reasonable deadlines. There have already been more interruptions than explanations. I propose that Mr Ducarme continue his speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u69	Next time, I'll get a chair!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u70	Very briefly. I am surprised that Mr Van Rompuy suddenly presents himself as a fervent defender of the index jump. CD&V makes really crazy jumps. I remember Mr Beke, who admitted in the debate on the government declaration in the Chamber that it did not happen with much sense. You are defending this now with a great deal of fire and say that the index jump is actually much more efficient than the reduction of charges we are proposing. You are referring to the table of the National Bank, the Table-Peters of the Social Affairs Committee. You are, of course, mistaken because in terms of the index jump, the calculation in no way takes into account the negative impact of the index jump on the demand side and thus on job creation. That's a first element. Secondly, you say that the reduction in the burden that we advocate in our alternative plan only produces 19 000 jobs. Why does that get so few jobs? This is because, Mr Van Rompuy, you choose to carry out a general reduction of charges instead of doing it purposefully. That is why there is only 19 000 and not 30 000 or 40 000. If I may refer to the alternative plan, then our reduction is not only much greater, not only from the first year, but also targeted. That is why our result in terms of job creation would be much better than yours, Mr Van Rompuy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u71	Mr. President, I will try to continue. I don't mind the debate, but next time, I'll take a chair! In this way, I will let you debate between you! Mr President, if I am not mistaken, the questions must be addressed to the speaker, otherwise it becomes a little complicated. We will not agree on issues related to index jumping. We have a number of strong elements. The question of the wage gap is also an element that must motivate us. In order to continue to create jobs, our companies need these strong measures that are taken in this area, beyond companies and workers. We are not pursuing a class policy, we are pursuing a policy of general interest in this government. Yes, businesses are needed to create jobs, and workers are needed to meet the supply made by companies. That's the reality! We need everyone! As far as we are concerned, we intend to give priority to all parties. For us, these are not camps, they are parties and it must be a win-win. Creating 33,000 jobs through this measure is win-win! Beyond the question of index skipping, I would like to come to the other measures that we are taking and that we are continuing in favour of businesses. In view of the context, given our desire to create employment, further measures will be taken by this government in favour of the enterprise, including the gradual reduction of the employer burden from 33 to 25 per cent in order to support businesses and boost growth. Everything that has been done in the past was obviously not bad and we will therefore continue the contribution reductions for the first three commitments, the deductibility of lump sum costs,... This package of measures must help to create more jobs in our country. When I said that this majority is obsessed with creating employment, all measures in this area are in line with this objective. Since we are in the tax section, Mrs Onkelinx, I would very simply like to respond to what you said earlier about capital taxation. The amount of $7 billion is recurring, we make a billion more. That is the reality. We are hitting one billion more capital and so, in relation to this aspect, I ask you to review your figures. Another element that is being debated is the pension file. In relation to pensions, it is essential to tell the truth: there is an urgent need to take appropriate measures to pay pensions in the future. If we do not take the measures that we are taking today, some of which, it must be recalled, were proposed by the former socialist minister in the context of his report on pensions, if we do not take such courageous decisions, we will no longer be able to pay pensions in the future. This reality should be clearly recorded. We must dare to tell people a number of realities. It is impossible to continue in the same way. I have given you figures earlier in relation to the additional ten-year burden of pension charges. Well, we need those decisions! Here too, cartoons scared people: 67 years old, 2030! There was no hesitation in citing a number of images, such as a slate tree on a 67-year-old roof. No, again, it is clear that our willingness to work together on pensions will have a decisive role to play! Therefore, we will naturally ensure that the exceptions to the general scheme for heavy trades, for the conditions of diplomas, the integration allowances, all the conditions of end of career, are at the heart of the concertation. It is not a question of imposing measures in the context of these questions. And we intend to consider the tenibility of heavy trades. Today, when the statutory retirement age is set at 65, we are among the Europeans who leave the pension at the earliest: 59 years and 3 months. In our European neighbours, this figure is 60, 61, 62 years old. It will be a matter of getting closer to the legal age of the pension in relation to pension reform. What matters, of course, is the length of the career today. Only 10% of the working population work up to the age of 65.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u72	Mr Van Hees, you have a minute to intervene!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u73	Mr President, I will need less than a minute! Mr Ducrame, I ask you a simple question: if you want to finance pensions, why are you reducing the funds of the security by granting reductions in social contributions?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u74	To create jobs! Cotize, yes!... We want to create jobs! We believe that we do not live only for our pension. Before that, we have to work. If we cut social contributions, it's not an ideological policy. I have a great deal of respect for your beliefs, as I said earlier. Since you've been here, the PS feels like it's pushing wings to the left! But what are they afraid of? There's only two of you! That's amazing. I really respect your point, but we have another pragmatic approach, and we believe that reducing these contributions is, above all, creating jobs and that is what we want to do. I would now like to turn to a central issue for the action this government wants to take, the security issue. In the negotiations and in the presentation of the government statement, when we were able to read in detail what the government's action on security would be, in the discussions we had in committee on the political guidance notes, it is clear that this is a major issue. It's not by chance. Prime Minister, with this government, you want to set up the National Security Council that you will preside over yourself. That a Prime Minister thus assumes such an essential responsibility is a significant fact. This will change from what happened in the last legislature when the national ancestor of the Security Council, the inter-ministerial intelligence committee, never met under the Di Rupo government. [[...]] [[: (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u75	A Prime Minister is respected. We can't force him to do what he doesn't want to do. In this case, he had never met with that committee. I was personally very moved by the fact that he did not bring him together. I was in the majority, but I have to tell you that it upset me. I had bad nights. Turning back to the substance, it is clear that this National Security Council is very important in view of a number of threats that our country faces today. One cannot forget, in the context of the problem of ‘returns' and the rise of radicalism, that Belgium is the only European country to have been hit by an attack on its soil, the attack of the Jewish Museum in Brussels. With this majority, together with the responsible ministers and the Prime Minister, we must ensure the safety of the Belgians and make every effort to protect ourselves, protect our society, protect the Belgians from radicalism, which is a violent poison. It is therefore clear that the measures to be taken by this Government in the fight against radicalism is a very essential step. A number of savings affect the Department of the Interior, but it is clearly one of the departments least affected by these economic measures. A lot has been said about police engagements. It was said that less would be done at the federal policy level, from 1,400 to 800 officers. However, in 2014, 1,400 police officers were not hired. Only 800 police officers were hired. Therefore, it will of course continue to be at least 800. Much has also been said in terms of budget comparisons, police area allocations, without taking into account a number of budget adjustments that distort the figures. The figures presented by the PS in the Committee on the Interior are bad figures. They don't match reality. We have to say it clearly again. It is also because this government makes the security issue one of its priorities that the impact in terms of savings at the level of the Department of the Interior is smaller than in a number of departments. I don't have much time left, Mr. President. But know that a number of MPs from the MR Group will be taking part in the thematic debates with strength and conviction and the depth, if necessary, in the course of the night to defend our point of view. I wish to conclude, Prime Minister, by saying that yesterday you spoke in the media with a lot of pedagogy and conviction. In my view, thanks to you, but also to the debates taking place in this chamber, a number of Belgians who had been caught in this wave of misinformation and caricature will be able to analyse with a little more hindrance the information communicated to them. I would also like to take up a number of points that I have already mentioned. Thus, in view of the positive signals in terms of growth, of the prospects for additional commitments for 2015, of the signals sent by the IMF, the European Commission, by the OECD in part of its report, in terms of job creation, of the flexibility of the labour market, I can only ask you, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, to stay on course. I know the will you're in, which is to set up this dialogue. Our policy is not directed against anyone. It is true that the dialogues will probably be firm, but our will is to gather around our policies, because we are convinced that they can bring additional well-being to Belgians – whether they are on the side of companies or workers. I repeat, we are not pursuing a class policy, but one of general interest. If not, why would we do politics? Thank you for keeping the course, Prime Minister. Thank you, Ministers, for remaining obsessed as you are, for our country that needs these reforms, through the creation of jobs and shared wealth, in order to sustain our social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip021x.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, for technical reasons, we must suspend work. We will resume work at 1.20 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 17 December 2014 at 1.20 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 17 December 2014, at 1.20 p.m.
