ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament 55 by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u2	Mr President, Minister, single-parent families are, as you know, at an increased risk of poverty. However, the measures planned by your Government do not seem to be able to improve their situation. Many families, mainly women with children, are plunged into precariousness, which tends to increase when maintenance claims are not paid. Since its creation – which we had strongly supported in 2003 – the Maintenance Claims Service has been responsible for recovering these claims from defaulting debtors and granting monthly advances on pensions due to children. At the time of its creation, SECAL therefore had as its main purpose the fight against poverty caused by the non-payment of these pensions to children. The grant of these advances is conditional on the level of income of the person to whom the custody was entrusted. For several years, we have considered that ESAL, because of this restriction of access, was unaware of the economic reality of far too many families. For this reason, the Parliament has voted on a proposal for a law aimed, in particular, at enabling more people to benefit from advances from ESAL by raising the income ceiling from EUR 1,300 to EUR 1,800. As a result of this legislative amendment, hundreds of additional families will be able to make use of this agency. Minister, I would like to ask you three specific questions. What will be the consequences of changeover 3 on the functioning of the SECAL and on the staff assigned to it? Do you have an accurate idea of how many new files could be introduced in the future as a result of this change in legislation? As of December 31, 2010, 96.9 full-time equivalent employees were employed in the various departments of the SECAL. However, according to the SECAL Evaluation Commission's 2010 report, "offices are increasingly giving signals that the current staffing level is no longer sufficient, with the most impact on recovery". Has a staffing needs assessment already been carried out in view of the workload that will increase in the future? If not, is it planned and when will it take place? Are any measures already envisaged to enable this body to carry out its tasks properly?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u3	Mrs Winckel, the changeover 3 is completely finalised for SETAL and remains impactless for its staff, which amounts to 98 agents. SECAL's statutory and contractual agents will continue to perform the tasks assigned to them prior to the changeover 3. This operation has therefore proved to be neutral in terms of strength. In a study conducted by Professor Pacolet de l'HIVA at the Catholic University of Leuven, available on the SECAL website, it is estimated, on the basis of 2009 data, that 4,295 families could be affected by the entry into force of the new legislation. This would represent a total of 6,733 children. A workload measure has already been carried out in 2012 and a budget of €25.6 million has been foreseen for the 2015 budget year for the payment of advances on maintenance claims. The situation will be reviewed during the 2015 budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answers. The fact that an additional 4,295 families could enter into account from 2015 onwards will represent an additional workload. However, if you mentioned a budget planned for 2015 for the payment of advances on maintenance claims, I did not hear anything about what was envisaged in relation to the staff. Indeed, it must be manageable by the services of the SECAL. Therefore, have you planned an increase in staff dedicated specifically to this measure, which I believe is of the utmost importance?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u5	According to the data I received, this is the total number of 4,295 families.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u6	I wanted to know how many more families would be affected by the new measure, in order to know what arrangements you planned to make in terms of increasing staff. I would like to know whether the work generated by these measures can be absorbed by the services of the SECAL.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u7	May I return to this point later?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u8	Yes. Do I have to ask a new question?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u9	It's what you want!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u10	I didn't get an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u11	Does it suit you if you are answered in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u12	That's perfect, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u13	Mr President, Minister, the lives of local traders are not really easy. They express a number of concerns about threats to their commercial activities. This is the decline in school attendance, accessibility, parking or insecurity, in a context of growing economic crisis. Tax reductions for investments in security for natural persons have just been regionalised, but this is not the case for tax deductions for securing business premises for self-employed and businesses. I would therefore like to ask you about the investments that the self-employed and businesses can make and for which they benefit from a tax deduction. Crime is unfortunately a social fact and it has a negative impact on economic life. The losses incurred by independent contractors are large. They are a burden and are detrimental to the growth of the company. On the one hand, with regard to limiting the use of scriptural money to reduce the risk of theft, the sector wishes to extend the existing list of deductible investments to the purchase of a terminal for electronic payments. On the other hand, the UCM also calls for an extension of the list of costs relating to the provision of services intended to secure a trade and which give rise to a tax deduction: the costs of transactions for electronic payments, the use of an approved security company, the annual maintenance of alarm systems, the cost of insurance against theft of goods, training, etc. So my question is: do you intend to make arrangements to meet the industry's expectations?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Matz, the list of the tax deductions for costs and investments in security from which the self-employed and businesses can benefit is as follows. The deduction of 120 % consists of three categories: - subscription fees for connection to an authorized alarm system from installed systems; - costs in the event of the use of an authorised caretaker undertaking to carry out protected transport; - costs in the case of a class action for a group of undertakings to an authorised custodial undertaking. With respect to the investment deduction plus 17 points, the Royal Decree implementing IRC 92 contains a list of tangible capital assets that tend to secure professional premises and their contents. These include, for example, specific glazing and roller shutters that protect against break-in, armored doors, safes equipped with an anti-burglar lock, etc. Finally, the government is not considering any new provisions to expand this list.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answer. There are, of course, various mechanisms for tax deduction already. Thus, the use of a bank terminal calls for relatively high charges for its connection, but this avoids criminal interference because the funds are without cash. In view of this, consideration should be given to a form of tax deduction. Other areas of security already do. For small businesses, this would allow for greater security. I therefore regret that the planned list is not further expanded.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u16	Mr Minister, in July, very soon after the elections, the CEO of the Federal Participation and Investment Company, FPIM, made statements about his ideas about regrouping some of the federal government's capital investments, in particular bpost and the National Lottery, to include them in the FPIM's custody. The government agreement also states that the role of the Federal Participation and Investment Company will be re-examined: expertise will be strengthened, investment policy re-oriented and the federal state's participations centralised in the FPIM. Mr. Secretary, is there anything to add up? What will be the future role of the FPIM? Will bpost and the National Lottery be part of the FPIM in the future? If so, how will this be further organised?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u17	The FPIM is indeed a federal government holding company which is currently performing a dual function. The FPIM acts, on the one hand, as an investment company and, on the other hand, as a public holding company. The investments made by the FPIM as a public holding company are made in consultation with the government, in this case the government. I asked the managing director and the chairman of the FPIM to draw up proposals in the short term on how we can achieve the various aspects of the government agreement on its functioning in terms of timing, procedure, cooperation with the companies concerned, future succession, etc. When this strategic note is ready, I will, together with the FPIM and, of course, my colleagues in the government, look at all options in detail and decide what further steps should be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u18	Mr. Secretary, this is what I expected. Maybe some suggestions. I note that there is apparently no structural consultation within the various organisations of the financial authorities, including the administration of public debt with the investment company. For example, patrimony management is taken into account in a discussion about how government debt is evolving, what the interest burden is and how we adapt our patrimony management to that. I am giving this to you because I noticed that this does not exist, and I think that is a very serious shortcoming. Furthermore, it is a perfect continuation of the coalition agreement and its intentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u19	Mr President, Minister, Credibe is a relatively simple story. The company has transferred its mortgage business to the private sector and manages some pending files and to a limited extent real estate. I would be so naughty to say that it has become a parking garage for a number of almost retired bodies, but I am not going that far. My questions are as follows. What is the added value of Credibe as a separate entity? What does the management structure look like? What is perhaps important is that the previous board already played with the idea of dismantling Credibe, but that has not yet happened. The question arises as to whether this political will is now there. I come to the participation in Sopima. That's very interesting. Sopima was founded in 1996 and was the playground in the period when it was thought of sale-and-lease-back constructions. The best parts of the federal government's patrimony were housed in that society and offered for sale in the most favourable way possible, with the proceeds usually returned, not immediately to the debt, but very often also to current expenditure, which was not really the most sensible decision. Aside from my questions, at least I'd like to make a suggestion. Sopima is a finished story. At some point there are land and patrimonies. What I think would be very sensible is to investigate over the last twenty years and to see how our heritage management has evolved and whether it has been done well. One has a perfect understanding of a period of time, and one can use interest rates, yields and their use to determine whether the correct decisions on patrimony management have been taken, especially in order to steer patrimony management in the future. My question is mainly aimed at making better use of the vehicle there too. Apparently, there would still be a large capital that is not being used or has no destination. How much money are we talking about here? I think it would be wise, within the patrimony management, to consider how the Buildings Regie will deal with Sopima and the FPIM. I'd like to hear your views on the possibilities for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u20	Mr President, this question is of course somewhat in line with the previous question on the FPIM because Credibe is a subsidiary of the FPIM at 100%. Credibe has a portfolio of chirografical claims, mortgage lending contracts, a participation in Stater Belgium nv, some short-term debts, risk liabilities including various disputes and litigations, and the building in the Wetstraat, where its registered office is located. In principle, these tasks could be carried out within another entity if Credibe were merged with another FPIM branch or if necessary with the FPIM itself. The maintenance of a separate structure was mainly to isolate the various legal disputes. However, these have now been resolved in a satisfactory way. There remain about 20 disputes, the recovery rate of which may be low to very low, but also the risk of a net cost for Credibe is low to very low. The building in the Wetstraat has been renovated, for a large part rented and may be considered to sell it. The portfolio of movable assets is small and will be fully liquid by 2016. The portfolio of dubious debtors continues to generate a regular revenue flow, while a sale of it would probably produce barely a return equivalent to four years' income. To sell Stater Belgium nv there must be an agreement with Stater nv in the Netherlands, which implies the risk of the price being printed. The board of directors of Credibe currently consists of six directors and a government commissioner has also been appointed. In view of the future, the government agreement expressly stipulates that the FPIM will propose a more efficient and transparent model to rationalise existing branches and sub-philials. I await the analysis of the FPIM to take a further position on Credibe, among other things, in the future. As far as Sopima is concerned, it is a balance sheet total of EUR 277 million, at the closure of the 2014 accounts. The available resources must all be invested in consolidated titles and thus contribute to the reduction of debt. It is about 22 million euros. Another use of these resources must therefore be carefully considered in the light of the currently well-known and fiercely discussed ESA rules, which we often hear about. The Sopima NV is expected to pay a dividend of 23.5 million euros for 2014. Taking into account the different structures of the entities mentioned by you, a merger between the three is not easy, inter alia because of the Staff Regulations. However, the idea of a merger between Sopima and the FSI was discussed regularly in the governing bodies of both institutions, particularly in the context of the creation itself by the FPIM of a strong building pillar. To this end, the State and the Government of the Buildings must transfer their shares in the Sopima SA to the FPIM. This is also in line with the government agreement which provides for the centralisation of federal holdings in the FPIM. A real estate pillar within the FPIM can facilitate and make cheaper the financing of real estate projects under federal jurisdiction. If this were to be included in a cooperation protocol between the FPIM and the Government of the Buildings, the necessary real estate expertise would be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u21	Minister, I am fully satisfied with this answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u22	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, this is an opportunity for me to ask you one of my first questions; I am particularly pleased with a fairly important subject. I would like to talk to you about the checks carried out by the departments of your department in the horeca sector and to highlight the fact that these are most often carried out during peak hours, i.e. during the noon and evening service; I refer here to several press articles which have appeared on this subject in my region. According to my information and the main interested parties, it appears that it is quite complicated, both for the tenants of these establishments and for the staff concerned, to receive and respond properly to the agents of your department. Minister, are there any reasons why these checks are carried out during these time slots? If so, why? If not, would it be possible to reorganise these controls so that officers go to institutions at more affordable hours for staff so that they can be received with the full cooperation of the bosses of the Horeca sector and also allow them to devote themselves to their establishment during hours of major activity?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u23	Mrs Jadin, thank you for your question. The general administration of taxation has actually carried out a number of investigations in the horeca sector. Part of the investigation took place at the beginning and end of the midday and evening service. The purpose of the survey, the scope and duration of which were explicitly limited, was essentially to collect information to verify compliance with the various tax obligations. It is clear that my administration should operate in the utmost discretion to respect the interests of the horeca sector. In this context, prior to conducting the audits, an on-site visit notice should be sent to the taxpayer to provide sufficient time to organize and/or be represented.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u24	Thank you for that answer, Minister. I note that we are quite on the same wavelength as regards the timeliness of the control and the timing of its realization. As we know, the appearance of your department's agents may also cause some irritation to customers. I therefore understand that such an investigation has taken place on an exceptional basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u25	This issue has already been addressed in the context of the budget discussions. You can put it down, but as chairman of the committee, I find it limited. Since these are your first questions, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u26	Mr President, thank you for your indulgence. As a result of the differences between the rates of excise duty in Belgium and that applied in neighbouring countries, our wine and spirits sector is already suffering, Mr Minister - and I note that you have already been informed - the consequences of cross-border purchases, whether legal or illegal. Of course, we rely on legal transfers. You intend to increase the rate of excise duty on these products a little further, which would result in an increase in cross-border purchasing and a loss in the public treasury funds. In addition, the competitiveness of Belgian traders will be severely damaged. My questions are as follows. Do you have statistics showing the volume of these purchases, particularly those via France and Luxembourg? What initiatives do you think you can take to prevent cross-border purchases with negative effects for Belgian traders, as well as for the State fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rate increase is EUR 0,2740 per hectolitre for wines and other non-foaming fermented beverages, EUR 0,9375 per hectolitre for wines and other sparkling fermented beverages, an increase of 0,4786 %, 0,4787 % and 0,9278 %, as the case may be. For intermediate products, the increase ranges from €0.5591 to €0.8425 per hectolitre, depending on the category, i.e. an increase of 0.4303%, 0.5309% and 0.6176% as appropriate. For ethyl alcohol, the increase is EUR 5.7212 per hectolitre of pure alcohol, an increase of 0.2693%. The rates will be changed in the programme law. They are expected to enter into force on 1 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u28	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the figures you have given me. I have not taken note of this, but I am sure that they will be included in the record of this committee. Why did I ask you that question, minister? We need to be very clear about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u29	I did ask myself the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u30	That's your right. But I'll answer you. The sector is somewhat surprised to see that taxation differs according to the proposed products. In order to be concrete, as far as beer is concerned, which is a drink that we consume with great pleasure in our country, the beer producers in our country naturally wonder about this differentiation. It would therefore be interesting in the future to get in touch with these producers, who are not as numerous as you might think, in view of the measures you have set out to us. These measures should be taken into account in the coming years, in particular with regard to the specific needs and handicaps associated with their increase. I would like to concede that these measures are minimal, but they can nevertheless have important consequences for the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u31	Do I also answer your questions about cross-border trade?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u32	Yes, my questions Nos 279 and 655 are attached.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u33	The administration has no statistics on the volume of purchases made by Belgian residents in countries bordering Belgium in general, and in France and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in particular. The purchase of a product subject to excise duty by an individual in another Member State cannot be regarded as illegal. Excise is not payable in Belgium in the event of the acquisition by private individuals of products subject to excise duty, on which excise duty has been levied in the Member State in which the products were acquired for their own needs, provided that they are transported by themselves. In any other situation, excise duty is payable in Belgium and must be paid there. The control of the situations mentioned above is part of the routine tasks of the motorized brigades of the General Administration of Customs and Excise. In the event of suspicions of "illegal" cross-border purchases of excise goods, these brigades will intensify the controls on vehicles of individuals entering the territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u34	This is indeed a demonstration of the fact that the controls are very difficult to carry out. I myself come from a cross-border region and I can assure you that I do not often see the motorized customs brigades.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u35	Minister, in the previous legislature, I asked your predecessor about the application of section 307 of IRC 92 to the Paypal bank account. In summary, it was a question of whether a Paypal bank account should be reported to the tax administration, like bank accounts held abroad. This question followed a decision of the Administrative Court of Pau, which considered that a Paypal account was indeed a foreign bank account and, as such, it had to be mentioned in the tax return. At the time, I was told that a firm answer had not been provided at this stage because of the complexity of the question. Has this question been decided by the tax administration? In other words, are Paypal accounts considered to be foreign bank accounts and should they therefore be reported to the tax authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if the question is simple, the answer will be just as simple. The question of reporting a Paypal account as a bank account held abroad is still under consideration because of the particular nature of this type of account. This issue is in fact part of the broader problem of financial accounts only accessible via the Internet and used by their holders in the majority of cases for one-off transactions of a relatively small amount. So, no firm or definitive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u37	Will the question be decided at any time? Logically, one might think that such an account is intended for small payments only. That's my opinion, too. Nevertheless, small streams make large rivers all these payments can result in a large overall sum. In addition, if payments are larger, it would be important to decide whether these accounts are considered to be foreign accounts. I shall rest my question at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u38	Question No 143 by Mr Mathot has been transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u39	Mr President, the FSMA has recently published this report, which you have just mentioned. Minister, the objective was to monitor the proper application by credit institutions and investment firms of due diligence rules. As a result of these inspections, 115 violations, whether infractions, shortcomings or weaknesses, were found. Of these, 62 were ordered. FSMA has thus found shortcomings in various areas, in particular in the collection of customer information or in the training of staff. FSMA has also formulated several positions to clarify certain provisions of the applicable due diligence regulations. The situation is such that FSMA has decided to continue its inspections. During this new round of inspections, FSMA will also use the technique of mystery shopping. Due diligence means that financial institutions are committed to defending the best interests of their clients. When we know the disastrous financial consequences that the lack of knowledge of this duty has created for hundreds of small savers in a not so distant past, it is essential to ensure that this principle is respected. Mr Minister, could you please provide me with details of these 115 sanctions? Have the 115 investment firms or credit institutions that have been subject to sanctions regularized their situation? I reassure you; I do not ask you to quote them all here. You can also answer this question in writing. Finally, what follow-up will be given to these investigations?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u40	Mr. Mathot, you're asking me three questions. So I have three answers, one of which is quite long.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u41	Minister, as far as the 115 sanctions are concerned, you can give me the answer in writing. Let's save everyone time!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u42	That's nice, especially for me, but also for everyone! The answer to the first question will be sent in writing. With regard to the second issue, in the context of inspections, the FSMA is monitoring the action plans submitted by the regulated institutions. This follow-up is based on an analysis of the architecture of the measures taken by the company. To date, no regulated company has challenged its findings. Recovery plans have been carried out and are still under way in the various institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u43	I also go back to the follow-up that will be carried out in relation to companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u44	Let me turn to the third question and the follow-up to this investigation. FSMA has been in constant control of the rules of conduct in the banking sector, including in the insurance sector since the end of April 2014. Its annual inspection plan based on the sector's detailed risk assessment is approved by the FSMA Management Committee. This inspection plan enables priority to be given to risks and therefore, where appropriate, to the implementation of targeted inspections without delay. In addition, since the implementation of Twin Peaks II, FSMA has at its disposal the methods of mystery shopping. Mystery shopping is a complementary tool to so-called traditional inspections carried out by FSMA agents. On the one hand, it allows anonymous monitoring of inspections and, on the other hand, it allows for the detection of commercial methods which do not comply with the rules of conduct in institutions where the FSMA has not yet carried out an inspection. In the event that the follow-up given to the finding is not sufficient to enable clients to be served in an honest, fair and professional manner, the FSMA has certain sanction measures provided for in the Financial Sector Monitoring Act of 2 August 2002.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will consult the list, because I assume that some of the 115 sanctions may be financial and immediately perceptible. Therefore, the problem is resolved and the file closed, although this allows for an indication and verification of whether other files may require a sanction. In the second question, you tell me that "the investigations are under way". Is there any idea how these 115 sanctions would be distributed? I would like to carry out the analysis once I have the list that you will give me. It could be said that of the 115 sanctions, half or one third was settled by payment and the file is closed. It could also be said that some 30 require structural changes and that companies must be given time to be able to do so. And for some, we could say that the FSMA is really attentive, because it realizes that there is a bad will in the head of companies. I would like to make this analysis through your answer to the first question, but that is the real purpose of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u46	I don't have that kind of answer here, but I can ask!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u47	For my part, I will analyse the 115 sanctions and come back, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u48	Minister, there is growing concern about shadow banking. Moreover, it seems that such a phenomenon is developing in the world of insurance, under the name of shadow insurance. A recent study, produced by two university professors, highlighted the dangers associated with the methods used by U.S. insurance companies to avoid complying with prudential requirements related to the sale of guaranteed income insurance products. An insurance company resells guaranteed income insurance contracts to a captive subsidiary which is not subject to prudential rules. To purchase these contracts, the captive subsidiary borrows with the guarantee of the parent company from a credit institution. The consequences of such practices are at least predictable and pose a threat to financial stability. In 2012, in the United States, shadow insurance weighed, it seems, $369 billion – which is not nothing! Unfortunately, we do not have statistics on the importance of "shadow assurance" in Europe or in our country. However, both authors of the study indicate that such practices also exist in continental Europe. Minister, do such practices exist in our country? If so, do you have any statistics on the importance of phantom insurance in Belgium? What are the provisions currently in place for the regulation and supervision of this shadow insurance? What does the Solvency II Directive provide for in respect of reinsurance? This point seems important to me. In fact, we always think that insurance is useless, until the house burns.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u49	Mr Mathot, if I may, I will gather your first two questions. So far, the supervisory authorities have not found any shadow insurance practices in our country. Therefore, there are no statistics available in this regard. In answer to your third question about the arrangements made or planned, the absence of shadow insurance practices in Belgium is probably due to the prudential requirements applicable to both insurance undertakings and reinsurance undertakings. Both are important. Indeed, all insurance and reinsurance undertakings are currently subject to fairly strict prudential supervision. In particular, there is no possibility of exemption for captive companies. These rules are valid throughout the European Economic Area. If the authors of the study referred to by the honourable Member refer to the countries of continental Europe, they are likely to be countries outside the European Economic Area. In addition, insurance and reinsurance undertakings that are part of a group are controlled at that level, i.e. at the group level. This control relates in particular to the relations between the entities of the group. If these relationships may threaten the solvency of a group undertaking, the supervisory authorities shall require the group to strengthen its own funds. Let me turn to your fourth question on the Solvency II directive, which reflects the principles that have just been mentioned. No captive or non-captive subsidiary of insurance or reinsurance is outside the scope of the Solvency II Directive. All companies are subject to capital standards, technical provisions for governance, reporting and transparency. Reinsurance undertakings are subject to the same standards as insurance undertakings, with some exceptions taking into account the fact that they are addressed only to undertakings. In addition, for all companies, the aspects of group control are strengthened, in particular for greater collaboration between the different national authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hope that this cannot exist and that we will be vigilant because the risk is obviously very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u51	Minister, on November 3, the course of action AB InBev suffered a sharp and significant fall. In the space of 10 seconds, this financial security lost more than 5% of its value before recovering it almost as quickly. This type of event, known as the flash crash, has increased in recent years on the Euronext Brussels. The Financial of Tubize and KBC have experienced such misadventures in a very recent past. According to the newspaper L'Écho, the Autorité des services et marchés financiers (FSMA) reportedly announced that this sudden fall in the security would be the result of a large sale offer that would not have found a buyer, in sum to a temporary lack of liquidity. Yet the extreme movement known by the course of action AB InBev in such a short period of time seems to me surprising to say the least. I would therefore like more information on this event. Does FSMA confirm that this flash crash is the direct result of the temporary illiquidity of the title AB InBev? If so, on what concrete basis is it based on the claim that this is a liquidity problem? I would also like you to remind us of the rules applicable to the handling of courses. More specifically, I would like to know whether a massive cancellation of orders can be regarded as a manipulation of courses? If so, from what threshold?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u52	Dear colleague, I confirm to you that the evolution of the course of 3 November 2014 of AB InBev is the direct consequence of the temporary illiquidity of the title AB InBev. On the morning of November 3, 2014, there was first a lack of purchasing orders leading to a downward movement over the course of the stock, followed by a lack of sales orders leading to an upward movement. The concept of price manipulation is defined by the Financial Sector Supervision and Financial Service Act 2002. A cancellation of an order may be considered to be a manipulation of a course if and only if it is likely to give false or misleading information about the offer, demand or course of action. It is therefore a potential index of market manipulation, but not in itself a market manipulation. According to the FSMA checks, however, the temporary liquidity deficit was not the result of the cancellation of orders previously introduced into the market. This aspect is important because such cancellations can be an indication of possible price manipulations related to flash crash phenomena." Such cancellations have not been found.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u53	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u54	Mr President, Minister, in recent years, advertisements calling on individuals to invest in Forex or in difference contracts (CFDs) have multiplied on the Internet. It has become difficult to surf without falling into an ad boasting the speed and ease with which we can make huge profits, without warning of the serious risks posed by this type of investment. However, when we look at this phenomenon in a more in-depth way, reality seems to be much less glareful. This is in any case what a recent study conducted by the Autorité des marchés financiers, the French equivalent of FSMA, suggests. The study entitled Study of the results of private investors on the trading of CFD and Forex in France is particularly revealing in this regard. It is thus learned that, over the four years covered by this study, 89% of private investors have a net loss of between €4,500 and €13,400. Individuals dealing with the largest volumes are also those who suffer the largest losses. Finally, it should be noted that there is no learning effect among investors, since investors who persist most in the long term are also the ones who lose the most. A similar study was conducted by the Polish supervisor with substantially the same results. Minister, do we have such a study for our country? If so, what are its conclusions? How many complaints did FSMA receive from individual investors who suffered financial losses on Forex or through the use of CFD? What penalties are provided for intermediaries who offer such financial products on the Internet without the approval of the FSMA? Would it not be appropriate to conduct an awareness-raising campaign on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u55	Mr President, Mr Mathot, I take the liberty of taking your first two questions together. To my knowledge, there is no similar study specifically on the Belgian market. However, in a recent survey, the FSMA found results for Belgium that were qualitatively identical to those obtained in France. To your third question, I can answer that in the first ten months of 2014, the FSMA received 112 requests for information. In some cases, these were complaints from financial consumers about non-conventional financial products such as CFDs or binary options, including currency, in Forex. In the majority of cases, these were transactions made or envisaged with foreign companies. In Belgium, only credit institutions or investment firms authorised to operate in Belgium may offer investment services relating to foreign currency derivatives, such as CFDs or binary options. Furthermore, the marketing in Belgium of such products requires the approval by the FSMA of a prospectus, in accordance with the Act of 16 June 2006. I will now answer your fourth question. The arsenal of sanctions against companies providing investment services in Belgium illegally was recently reinforced by the Act of 30 July 2013. It shall include, in the case of irregular activity, the possibility of issuing injunctions accompanied by periodic penalty payments or of imposing administrative fines. FSMA may also publish warnings on its website to inform financial consumers of the risks associated with these irregular offers. Here's my answer to your fifth question. FSMA has been conducting a public awareness campaign for several years to prevent the risks inherent in investments in Forex or CFD products. In June 2012, FSMA already issued a warning on the risks associated with foreign currency transactions, notably via CFDs. More recently, in May 2014, FSMA issued a warning regarding binary option trading. In addition, FSMA regularly analyses the state of the market in this area and issued warnings in August and October of this year against the activities of suppliers of this product who do not have the necessary authorisations to offer these offers in Belgium. Finally, the FSMA published a communication in July 2014 reminding companies that market non-conventional financial products online of the different regulations to which they are subject: prospectus rules, rules of conduct, rules to protect consumers and future rules on the information to be supplied on the marketing of any type of financial products.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u57	Mr President, Minister, my question is a bit old, but you can give us the latest news about this ongoing ECOFIN negotiation. On 7 November, Belgium, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom did not agree to the adoption of a European anti-abuse clause to strengthen a European directive on business taxation. These were the principles of non-double taxation, often a double non-taxation. Mr Minister of Finance, why did the representative of Belgium object to the adoption of this rule? This was discussed in the discussion of your policy note. More topical, what was Belgium's position and what will it be at the next meeting? How has the file evolved? Overall, what steps will you take, in particular following the revelations of LuxLeaks, to contribute to European harmonisation in tax matters and to the fight against tax dumping? When I introduced my question at the time, I confess that I was angry with Belgium's position on this issue. I hope it has evolved since then.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u58	My colleague, it is true that Belgium, along with other Member States, did not initially agree with the text of anti-abuse provisions prepared by the Italian Presidency of the European Union. Indeed, in our view, this text still required some important clarifications. In the meantime, the Italian Presidency has presented clarifications to the Council and the directive was adopted at the ECOFIN Council in December. Given the parliamentary reservation made by the Netherlands and the United Kingdom concerning the approval of the Directive at the November ECOFIN Council, the Belgian Government's request for clarification did not lead to any delay. The Presidency of the Council is currently held by Italy. On 1 January 2015, Latvia will take over from Italy. It is therefore primarily for these two countries, and not for Belgium, to determine the European harmonisation agenda in tax matters and the fight against tax dumping at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u59	Minister, thank you. I understand that it is the countries chairing the Union that have the greatest capacity for initiative. It does not seem to me, however, that the other States - including Belgium - should be silent about their intentions or their will. I believe that each State has a role to play in stimulating the work, and in this case I hope to speed them up on this crucial issue of combating tax dumping. I was very surprised and disappointed by the attitude of Belgium in November. You explained it with a request for clarification while other countries were blocking. I am pleased to know that there was an agreement in December. It remains to be verified that the agreement will be operational, i.e. it will allow concrete progress and we will pay attention to it. I hope that you can continue to speed up this important work on tax harmonisation as part of your mission to represent Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u60	Minister, here is an illustration of what I am asking you, that is, proactivity, in this case by implementing the agreement referred to in the title of my question. The 28 countries of the European Union signed an agreement on 13 October on automatic exchange of information covering all financial revenues on the basis of OECD standards. Belgium stated that it was ready for this exchange in 2017. While we can welcome the conclusion of such an agreement by all the Member States of the Union, it is now a matter of establishing adequate resources to ensure that it is implemented effectively in Belgium within the prescribed time limit. However, the steady decrease in the volume of staff of the FPS Finances and, in particular, of the General Tax Administration may give rise to some concerns in this regard. In addition, with a view to transparency, the obstacles to the end of bank secrecy affecting Belgian residents should be removed. Minister, can you tell me what legal, regulatory, technical and information technology measures are envisaged to implement this international agreement? Can you tell me how they will be released by the administration to carry out these new tasks? Will specific training be organised so that staff can make effective use of this data? How long? In this context of transparency, is it envisaged to make the double reporting of movable income by the debtor - via a form - and by the beneficiary - by means of a declaration to the PPI compulsory, as is the case for labour income? What are the federal government's intentions in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u61	Mr Gilkinet, I have asked my administration to prepare a law regulating the disclosure of financial account information by Belgian financial institutions as part of an automatic exchange of information for tax purposes. It should cover the automatic exchange with the United States under the FATCA Agreement, with the other EU member countries and, in general, with all countries with which Belgium will organise such an exchange. The technical and computer aspects relating to the automatic exchange of financial information are currently being studied within the competent department of the General Administration of Taxation which ensures the exchange of information, in collaboration with the various departments involved in the FPS Finance. Particular attention will be paid to the use of the information received, as is currently the case for information received automatically under other existing legal bases. There are no plans to make double reporting of movable income by the debtor and the beneficiary mandatory. The Belgian debtor of movable income must, in principle, declare and pay the personal allowance when it allocates or pays its income to the beneficiary. This discount is therefore liberating. The foreign debtor who allocates or pays his income is not subject to the reporting obligation provided for by Belgian law and the beneficiary of the movable income must therefore declare them to the tax of natural persons. The automatic exchange of financial information will ensure that the recipient is in compliance with its reporting obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answer. In the fight against tax evasion or non-reporting of financial income, transparency must really be an objective of our States. Beyond international agreements, it is important to equip ourselves with the means of priority so that our administration can, as soon as possible - and I am always surprised by the deadlines because 2017 is still far away - implement this agreement and can therefore expect the same from neighbouring countries. For our part, we remain convinced that double reporting of capital income, as is the case for labour income, should eventually become the norm. It is also a way of creating transparency. I have taken note of your reply and note, without any surprise, that this is not your Government's intention, and I regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u63	Mr Gilkinet, you have the floor for your question on "the direction of the European resolution fund" (No. 504).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u64	Mr President, Minister, this was a choice between Mr Maystadt and Mr Coene. As it was a German woman who took it, my question was overtaken by the facts, which was not the case at the time of its filing. So I'm turning it into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u65	All right. A German woman was chosen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u66	I wanted to know who Mr Maystadt or Mr Coene was supported by the government. Finally, she's a German woman, and I take note of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u67	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Article 307 of the WIB stipulates that taxable persons subject to corporation tax are obliged to declare all payments made directly or indirectly to persons established in a State that has been identified by the OECD World Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information as not complying effectively or substantially with the international standard. An additional condition is that the States concerned be considered as non-effective or non-essentially complying with the international standard for a fully taxable period by the World Forum. The Global Forum conducts peer reviews and finalises an assessment to the States. We can argue that the ratings fully compliant and largely compliant in relation to Article 307 of the WIB mean that effective or substantial compliance with the standard is achieved and that, on the other hand, the qualifications partly compliant and non-compliant mean that non-effective or non-substantial compliance with the international standard is met. In November last year, the sixth meeting of the Global Forum took place in Jakarta, approving a number of evaluations. Several countries were identified as only partially or not at all in line with the international standard. At the beginning of next year, these states will therefore be regarded as non-effective or non-essentially complying with the international standard. In other words, from 1 January onwards the obligation to declare payments to so-called tax havens will automatically enter into force. My question to you, Minister, is as follows. Will you publish a letter and communicate it clearly to all possible stakeholders so that they know in good time what they are up to? In this way, they can prepare for the reporting obligation for payments to persons or institutions located in the countries identified by the World Forum as non-effective or non-essentially complying with the international standard.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u68	Mr Van der Maelen, the obligation to make a declaration to which you refer has already been explained in detail in an administrative circular dated 30 November 2010. That circular clarifies that a supplement will be published as soon as it is possible to identify those States which do not apply the international standard on transparency and exchange of information effectively and substantially, which is the case now. I have therefore instructed my administration to publish this supplement so that the companies concerned are informed in good time and can make the necessary preparations to comply with the declaration obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u69	Minister, this has important consequences. Thank you for applying the law and interpretation as described in the circular. This means, in concrete terms, that from 1 January 2015, any company or person making a payment to a Luxembourg person or a resident of Cyprus must report this to the tax authorities. Mr President, this is an important step in the fight against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u70	Thank you, Mr van der Maelen, for your presence and for your intervention on this subject. When you come, you always score.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u71	Mr Minister, when we discussed the policy paper, we have already taken a brief look at this. We have committed ourselves to introducing the financial transaction tax together with the other EU Member States, or certainly with ten of them. It was very pleasing to note that this was seriously discussed during the government negotiations. The government agreement states that we will continue to contribute constructively to the gradual introduction of this under the regime of enhanced cooperation. When discussing the policy paper, you gave a good explanation of the position of the other countries, in particular the Netherlands and Luxembourg, which are not involved in the procedure for enhanced cooperation. There were also exceptions, sometimes contradictory, that were requested by several countries, including pension funds. We said at the time that it was important to come to something, to make concessions and to see what sensitivities there are still. In this context, I would like to come back to a number of specific points. Time goes fast, and in the meantime there have also been meetings at European level. Where are we now with the discussion and the procedure? What is your role as Finance Minister in further coordination and follow-up? We must continue to live up to the Belgian position, as one of the pioneers and agenda setters. The debate on yields may still be somewhat premature, but much has already been said about this. We started out from a sustainability story and now we've suddenly ended up in a story of national household. Were there any new contours or twists to be noticed at the last meetings? The focus is also important. If we say that we will focus on shares and derivatives with a speculative character, that is, of course, a definition that can be filled in very broad or very scary according to the reading that is given to them. It would therefore be good to know the Belgian Government's ambition in this respect. If you fill this out very widely, for example, you will also notice the pure rate swaps, which is sometimes a handy thing to ensure certain things better. Another problem is, for example, the issue of micro-credits. These are in line with the objective of the initial financial transaction tax and are therefore included in the exceptions. The question is also what is happening now with the Netherlands and Luxembourg. We have got to know Luxembourg in other files and perhaps this is the ideal time, when there are dialogues on the exchange of data and when there is an exchange of information on rulings and tax practices, to put that item on the agenda as well. That can be an interesting lever to achieve something very constructive and positive together. I am truly convinced that such projects, a financial transaction fee or less tax competition within Europe, are precisely the levers that Europe needs to demonstrate the added value of the European project with an interesting new story and to achieve greater solidarity and fiscal justice within Europe. You said you're also looking at the impact on the real economy. It would be interesting to hear about this too. I know that these are many questions and that many of these are still at the negotiating stage, but an answer would be very trusting and interesting for us to follow up on the dossier. In this way, we can strengthen you in the Belgian mandate you are holding in Europe, so that we are well and permanently involved. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u72	Mr Minister, as my colleague has just mentioned, on 8 December no agreement could be reached on the financial transaction tax. That's unfortunate. We know that this tax has become a symbolic issue. We could say it's the tree that hides the forest. I am thinking of some progress that could be made at European level, particularly in terms of harmonisation. When you presented your policy note, you admitted your scepticism about the possible adoption of this tax by European countries. Do you confirm that some states block this issue? Have the others reached a consensus? In any case, Belgium had expressed its real willingness to move forward in this regard. I believe that closer cooperation in tax matters is essential. Do you confirm our country's position? What transactions do you think should be subject to this tax? Even if this file seems extremely symbolic, it could have generated consensus. In any case, this shows that it is very difficult to work on a common basis when it comes to Isoc. Indeed, Europe's illegal passengers, as I like to call them, have virtually zero corporate tax rates. The result is a number of imbalances at European level. When states refuse to move forward, they always fall behind Europe. However, if it stagnates, I think that Belgium should give a boost. So I would have liked to know how you felt about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u73	Mr. President, I will begin by questioning you. The Commission has been very busy with budgetary work and the programme law. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that we agreed with the minister, who agreed, to follow the ECOFIN work more closely, before and after ECOFIN. I would not want to forget this commitment, which I believe is positive and in relation to which I have seen the good will of the Minister. The issue here relates to the last ECOFIN Summit. As my colleagues have said, the issue of the tax on financial transactions was again on the agenda and, again, it was not possible to reach an agreement because – we must call a cat – there is a form of hypocrisy on the part of some states. I hope that Belgium is not, because it is one of the first countries to have adopted the principle of a Tobin tax in its legislation. However, it had specified that it would be applied when it was applicable in all other States. Since then, we've been playing cat and mouse a bit. Anyway, we don't get it. I find this rather distressing, both in relation to the role of curbing speculation, as well as taxes on financial transactions and in relation to the need for funding from the Member States and the Union in particular. Mr Minister, like my colleagues, I therefore wanted to take stock with you of ECOFIN's work on this subject. Why has the text not been successful? What position did you defend on our behalf at this meeting? Which countries are opposed to the implementation of a financial transaction tax? Some French NGOs accuse the French state and President Hollande, very close to the banks, of being the source of this non-agreement itself. What are the arguments put forward by those who do not want to move forward? Should we completely forget the file, or as with one of the previous questions I asked you, is it going back to jump better? Is there a work schedule? The central question is, of course, that of the taxable basis. We discussed it as part of your policy brief and you seemed to want to exempt so many financial products that it would eventually be very narrow. I'll tell you, I'm worried about that. Are we still talking about revenue, about a financial amount that could be obtained in this context? Finally, everything is so restricted that one day we will be told that it is a lot of effort for not much as recipes and find in this argument the reason not to move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, despite the progress made in the framework of enhanced cooperation on the tax on financial transactions, no agreement could be reached at this stage. The December ECOFIN meeting, which took place about a week ago, was therefore unable to reach an agreement. At this meeting, Belgium explicitly supported taxation of shares and certain derivatives. It remains vigilant that the transactions of pension funds and insurance companies, as well as intra-group transactions, are not subject to tax. Moreover, on the basis of taxation, Belgium favours a combination of the principles of place of issue and place of establishment. This combination was the solution taken up in the European Commission's proposal for a directive. The eleven Member States have expressed their intention to continue their efforts to reach an agreement. As far as the timetable is concerned, the Latvian Presidency has planned to organise a meeting of the Tax Issues Group in February 2015. During the ECOFIN Council meeting in December, Mr Padoan, the Italian Minister of Finance, whose term of office as President ends at the end of the year, was asked to prepare a more specific proposal for the February meeting. Mr. Padoan is the former head of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). As Italian Minister of Finance, he chaired the meetings of the last six months. This could therefore help to move things forward. No decision was taken by the ECOFIN Council on the taxable basis. In the European Commission's proposal for a directive, the tax rate is 0,1 % for shares and 0,01 % for derivatives. Revenues for Belgium are estimated at between EUR 600 million and EUR 1.4 billion. However, since most of the tax on financial transactions comes from derivatives, a limitation on the classes of derivatives that would be subject to the tax would result in a decrease in the estimated revenues. The purpose of speculative transactions is those transactions which do not have any economic added value. Belgium, and myself, considers that these transactions should fall within the scope of application of the FTT, but that, for example, the traditional hedging operations of Belgian or other companies should not be included in the scope of the tax. Companies that cover transactions in a classic way, hedging, seem to me to fall outside this tax. As far as the rate of swaps used to cover exchange risks in the granting of micro-credits to developing countries is concerned, no decision has been taken so far. The eleven participating countries are still examining which derivatives will or will not be subject to the tax. Each country of the European Union is free to step into enhanced cooperation. Both the Netherlands and Luxembourg follow closely the negotiations on the FTT. It is up to their government to decide whether or not to participate in enhanced cooperation. For the Netherlands, as for Belgium, excluding pension funds from the scope of the FTT is a very important item. Since we do not yet know what a future financial transaction tax will look like and exactly what transactions will fall under the relevant tax, the impact on the real economy is currently very difficult to estimate. Shares are already subject to the Belgian tax on stock exchange transactions. There the impact will therefore be relatively small. In Belgium, debt securities are excluded from the scope of the tax on stock exchange transactions. When the FTT is introduced, measures will have to be taken to reduce relocation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u75	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for your reply, which will give rise to hope. For the first time, a clear answer was also given to questions about the categories, what is and what is not. It is also a good thing that this is becoming concrete, and of course it will have to be continued. We are also agenda setters in other international fora, for example the Presidency of the Council of Europe. At this level, too, very interesting activities could be set up, including with our diplomatic network, with regard to the topic of international taxation. The current government debate on the tax shift is also a debate that takes place there and is also partly in line with it. These are all very interesting caps to get the debate in the right direction and to meet the ever-growing demand. So make sure that the neighbouring countries do not just follow it, but that they simply follow tout court and then we could take a big step forward. Thank you for your commitment in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u76	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, we will wait until February to see if one more step is taken. Fortunately, this deadline for setting up a specific working group is not too far away. It is not, in my view, a matter of planning transactions that may lead to relocation. You talked about transactions. For me, what you want to tax is either part of the real economy, in which case the application of a tax is superfluous, or it is merely speculation, which must, in this case, be taxed. In any case, I hope that Belgium will not be shy in this matter and that it will continue to be at the forefront, as it was at the origin of the dossier and that we will be a driving force, because it is essential that this message can be delivered at European level. Without this message, we will not be able to launch any more.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u77	Mr Minister, if we were not patient, there would be reason to despair in this matter, which has raised dozens of questions in this Parliament, as in others, and we are still postponing the conclusion of an agreement. Perhaps we can keep hope in this initiative around the Italian Finance Minister, who could unblock the case. Still, it needs to be unlocked in optimal conditions. I confess to being cautious about the desire to always reduce the taxable base, arguing that the tools are useful for the economy, but it is difficult to prove it and easy to believe that they are rather tools of speculation. I wonder about the potential exclusion of pension funds from the taxable base. They do not only do positive things, even if their purpose is positive by providing additional income to pensioners. Indeed, the way in which they operate in the financial economy, with sometimes aggressive investments, deserves, I believe, taxation, which could divert them from more speculative practices or provide new financing for the public finances of our State and the Union. I hope that before the February meeting we will be able to take stock with you in this committee of the various assumptions that are on the table and discuss them. That would be a positive work of our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u78	Mr President, Minister, I will summarize my question as you have received the text. It deals with the requalification of the registration of agricultural and forestry tractors. The honourable Member who asked a question on this subject was answered that municipal tractors which are exempted from technical inspection could still benefit from the use of red diesel. Minister, are we well in this context? Can municipal tractors employed in the public service for the maintenance of excess roads, etc., use red diesel? This changes at all because pricing is going from double to simple for the benefit of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u79	Thank you, Mr Piedboeuf, for your colourful question! It is important to note that the taxation of red diesel used to power the engine of an agricultural or horticultural tractor may vary. Red diesel used for agricultural, horticultural, fish farming or forestry work is exempt from excise duty on the basis of Article 429(2) and (3) of the Programme Law of 27 December 2004. Red diesel used in the case of industrial and commercial uses is subject to a reduced rate of excise duty of EUR 22.68 per 1 000 litres, in accordance with Article 420(4) of the said Programme Law. Agricultural and horticultural tractors may be fed with exempt red diesel fuel to carry out agricultural, horticultural, fish farming or forestry work. The use of this exempt red diesel fuel is subject to the possession of an authorization issued by the General Administration of Customs and Excise. Agricultural and horticultural tractors may be fed with red diesel, meaning reduced excise duty, since they are considered "vehicles which have not been authorised for use mainly on the public road", in accordance with Article 20 of the Ministerial Decree of 27 October 2005 on the taxation of energy products and electricity. In this case, they are exclusively agricultural and horticultural tractors which are not subject to periodic technical inspections. Where, in accordance with the regulations published by the Mobility FPS, agricultural and horticultural tractors used by the municipalities are not subject to periodic technical inspection, they may therefore be fed with red diesel at reduced excise duty rates.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u80	Minister, I am very pleased with this answer. This confirms that municipalities can use red diesel. It's going to do them good! There is a lot of bad news about the actions of the federal government towards the communes, but this is good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u81	Mr President, Minister, the application of the Royal Decree of 18 November 2013 supplementing the rules on the identification of immovable property in an instrument or document subject to mortgage disclosure does not seem to me to cause a great deal of problems in the field I do not read the title of the Royal Decree of 18 November 2013. In fact, the report to the King states the requirement of a change of ownership, which is necessary for a delineation plan to be included, but the relevant KB does not recall that it must be about a change of ownership. The notaries seem to have been instructed by the administration to request such a delineation plan in the context of the passing of a deed relating to a commercial lease, which thus becomes a notarial past, when it comes to a part of a cadastral plot in order to obtain the transfer thereof. This seems strange indeed, since rental contracts do not deal with changes in ownership and there should be no changes in the land register. So this is not about creating a new cadastral plot. What the administration is asking for seems to be superfluous and to involve unnecessary actions and costs. The requirement to submit a delineation plan does not make any useful contribution in cases of rental and what is more, it makes rentalability and flexibility more difficult and constrained. Mr. Secretary, perhaps you could bring clarity and a solution? Are you aware of that instruction? Do you think that the interpretation given to the Royal Decree is correct by the administration or will you point out to the administration that, in view of the report to the King, the requirement of a delineation plan applies only in the event of a change of ownership? If necessary, will you then revise the text of the Royal Decree so that no demarcation plan should be added in the case of rent? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u82	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, thank you for your questions. I am indeed aware of the fact that my administration has informed the Royal Federation of the Belgian Notary and also certain individual notaries that a delineation plan should be drawn up for the mandatory transfer of rental contracts, in particular for those who have entered into for more than nine years, and that in respect of a newly created cadastral plot within the meaning of the Royal Decree of 18 November 2013. I agree with that interpretation of the royal decree. That Royal Decree clearly states that any instrument or document referred to in Article 141 of the Mortgage Act, in particular any document or document to be disclosed, must be considered as an instrument for the purposes of this Decision. The obligation to transfer a rental contract is covered by that provision. The provisions are clear and do not require any further interpretation on the basis of the explanatory statement contained in the report to the King. In order for the General Administration of the Patrimony Documentation to be able to carry out its tasks properly, it is essential that the identification of a property subject to an operation to be disclosed in the registers of the mortgage offices be carried out as accurately as possible. A delineation plan makes an important contribution to this. The plan is not only included in a database, but it also allows for a registration in the registers of the patrimonial documentation. Moreover, it avoids much dispute over the precise location and size of the new plot, which may also be important in the case of a long-term lease. By the way, I note that a delineation plan is not required for the lottery tickets in an existing shopping complex, as a basic act has already been drawn up for that purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u83	Minister, I do not know if I have understood you completely. You say that when a lease becomes a notarial past, at least a delineation plan should be attached indicating the size of the rental part? That's the purpose of the royal decree? However, the report to the King states by the same royal decree that it must be a change of ownership. There's absolutely no question of that in rent, is there? I think this is a mistake. What's the role of the mortgage office? It's supposed to register title. When there's a lease, isn't there a piece of property? The point of this is therefore completely unclear to me when I read the report to the King in that royal decree. You make the argument that there is a regulation of co-ownership in a shopping centre, with a basic act that divides the lots nicely. In the case of co-ownership, that is always the case, but I would ask you to check this out. Is this a responsible answer to the instruction or a deliberate policy choice of yours, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u84	I am glad that you are not asking me to say something here and now on this highly technical issue. I'll have it checked to see if the contradiction you're pointing to...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u85	There's an interact contradiction. Here she is read in a certain sense. Is that a responsibility for what was written before? It doesn't make any sense, does it? After all, this is not a transfer of ownership but a transfer of rent. I won't repeat everything I just said.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u86	I'll have it thoroughly examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u87	Minister, the government agreement provides for a simplification of tax legislation. One of the aims is, of course, to make taxation more understandable to the average citizen once again. The inflation of tax codes, although often justified, has helped to make things less readable for citizens. There is also a risk that the reform of the state will come up against this, because it will result in an inflation of tax codes. Some of the fiscal advantages that have so far been federal have been regionalised, allowing each region to make its own savings, reforms and other accents in the context of autonomy. In the text of my question I mentioned a few examples which I will not all read now. Mr Minister, will you create one box in the declaration for the regional tax reliefs? I am optimistic about this, in which the resident of a region only gets to see the tax codes for his own region and is not confused by the mess of codes in the other regions? In the other case, the principal could, of course, read the competition but also the good example of his own Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u88	Mr President, it is, of course, always refreshing to hear, in these times, when we are constantly talking about a tax shift, also talk about tax reductions! Ms Van Cauter, the tax return for the 2015 tax year is currently being prepared, taking into account, of course, the current rules, including the measures taken to implement the sixth state reform. It goes without saying that the complexity is increasing once again, inevitably almost, I would say. However, the administration makes every effort to translate the regulation into the declaration form as user-friendly as possible. More specifically, for the 2015 tax year, the impact of the partial regionalisation of personal income tax will be particularly visible in the field of interest and capital repayments of loans and premiums from individual life insurance policies that give entitlement to a tax advantage. In that box a distinction will be made between, on the one hand, the loans and insurance relating to the dwelling which is the taxable person's own home when paying interest, capital repayments and insurance premiums and, on the other hand, the other loans and insurance. The interest, redemptions and premiums relating to the home will in principle entitle the Region to a tax reduction where the taxable person has his tax residence on 1 January of the tax year, whereas expenditure not relating to the home will in principle give him a federal tax advantage. Also for the other regional tax reductions and tax credits, it is not intended to provide for a separate code for each region but to use a single code and, to the extent that the conditions are met, to grant the tax reduction or tax credit applicable in the region where the taxable person has his tax residence on 1 January of the tax year. The processing of the completed code will be tailored to the needs of the Region and the taxpayer. This work will be done through the calculation programme. The taxpayer is therefore hopefully going to face as little as possible with a tangle of regional codes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u89	Minister, that is very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a proposal. Mrs Van Cauter has a question about the mobility budget. Mrs Smaers has asked for her question No. 926 to be converted into a written question. Perhaps we can combine this with Mrs Jadin's question on the advantages of commercial vehicles. I think this is more or less connected.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u91	Mr President, since this subject has already been discussed in the budgetary debates, I intended to turn my oral question into a written question. But, if you wish, I can put it down after Mrs Van Cauter's speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u92	The federal coalition agreement, as well as the Flemish government agreement, provides for the introduction of a mobility budget. This concept means that there is only one tax advantage for commuting and that the taxable person chooses which means of transport and how he fills his mobility card. All modes of transport are treated in the same way in tax terms, making the tax advantage of a particular means of transport more neutral. Minister, are you planning to introduce a mobility budget? Within what time? Will this budget take the form of a deduction in the category of professional income from personal income tax? I assume the rate for the commercial cars in the passenger tax will be retained? Has the Minister discussed this with his colleague in Mobility?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u93	I listened very carefully to Mrs Van Cauter's question and my question is a little different from hers. My question was based on an article published in L'Écho on December 2. The purpose of this article was to advocate environmental protection associations for the elimination of tax advantages for company cars and the use of income to reduce the burden on labour. However, in the government agreement, such a change is not mentioned. Moreover, according to a study by the former government, adapting rules to corporate cars would contribute little to the consolidation of public finances. Minister, do you confirm that there will be no new measures to eliminate the benefits of purchasing corporate cars?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u94	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, may I first answer Mrs Jadin's questions? Mr President, I shall reply first to Mrs Jadin because that is the most brief and clear answer. Mrs Jadin, to answer your explicit question, I will give you such an explicit answer. At present, there is no question of a change in the tax treatment of company cars. Indeed, the government agreement does not provide for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u95	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u96	Mr President, I believe that this is a variant of nuclear interest rates. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u97	Minister, that's because I heard him. You use the term "currently". I can hear that term. We have the right as a Member of Parliament to receive the same explanations as the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u98	I'd like to repeat what I said, but you heard me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u99	And the answer to Mrs Van Cauter's question?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u100	Mr President, if I may, I will combine the first and fourth questions and then answer the second and third questions. After all, there were four questions. The government agreement stipulates that the government will create a legal framework for the mobility budget during this period of government. I myself have not yet consulted with my colleague responsible for Mobility, Mrs Galant. However, policy discussions are planned between our administrations. It is therefore too early to comment on what form this could take. With regard to the second question, in particular whether it is intended to coordinate social and fiscal legislation first, a working group will be set up with members of the administrations concerned. In this respect, however, the first exploratory talks have already taken place. The third question was whether the theme of the commercial vehicles will be included in the mobility box. My administration is currently analysing the mentioned bill on tax provisions. You will understand, Mrs Van Cauter, that at the moment I do not wish to express an opinion on a legislative proposal which is not purely fiscal and which deals with a matter which the government itself has included in its coalition agreement as a point to be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u101	Minister, I have heard your answer, including Mr Jadin's question, and it reassures me. You will continue to work on what was agreed in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u102	If I can reassure two ladies one afternoon...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u103	Mr President, Minister, according to the information I have received from your administration Legal Security regarding the creation of the Eupen antenna, it will continue in the course of 2015. We are here as part of the implementation of Coperfin, a reform launched in 2004 by your predecessors. But the transition phase aimed at creating the legal security branch does not seem so obvious. I'll explain. From January 2015, the current Malmedy Legal Security Branch will be renamed Eupen-Malmedy Legal Security Branch, to meet the need of the German-speaking Community. At the same time, Minister, the jurisdiction of the registration offices in this branch will be partially adapted. The municipalities of Waimes and Malmedy, with regard to the public prosecutor's offices of tasks Successions and others, will be separated from the registration offices of the Eupen-Malmedy legal security branch and transferred to the offices of the same type in the Verviers legal security branch. Until then, no problem. The municipalities of Malmedy and Waimes will always be part of the office of recording Acts Authentic Malmedy of the branch legal security Eupen-Malmedy, which leads to confusion! In the preparation of Coperfin and in the decision of the then government (legislature 2003-2007), it was made clear that a legal security branch would be installed in each judicial district. I have no problem, of course, in adapting to the needs. However, I would like to draw your attention – which will not surprise you – to the fact that the installation of the legal security antenna which will have to be created in Eupen can be done under correct conditions. Minister, could you clarify this transitional phase of the situation? What will be the next concrete steps in the establishment of the Legal Security Branch in Eupen? Do you confirm the decision in principle, which I consider to be acquired, but I prefer to hear it from your mouth, the FPS Finances and your department to establish this branch of legal security in Eupen?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u104	Mr. Chairman, Ms. Jadin, the General Administration of Heritage Documentation had to make the decision to reorganize the Administration Legal Security, formerly known as the Registration, Succession and Mortgage Sector, in order to adapt it to the regionalization of certain taxes. This new structure takes effect as from 1 January 2015 following Flanders' assumption of responsibility for these regional taxes. In the new structure of the Administration Legal Security, there will now be legal security branches, each with a retention of mortgages and registration offices with differentiated tasks. It was also decided that each judicial district should be the seat of a mortgage retention. Eupen has so far not retained its own mortgages, so its creation has become indispensable. The latter will be introduced gradually in order to divide the municipalities concerned between the Verviers and Eupen conservations and then distribute the relevant documentation in an optimal manner. Through this, we will ensure that decisions are followed in accordance with Coperfin's procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u105	Minister, thank you for the clarification that I was asking you about the original 2004 Coperfin decision, and I hear that we are staying in that line; I welcome it. Then I hear that all the means will be put in place to arrive at the ruling that will allow the future Eupen Mortgage Conservation to function properly. In view of your answer, I hope that the transition will take place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u106	Danke sehr! Mrs Jadin, you can also ask your question in German. One of your predecessors was Albert Gehlen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u107	I know!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u108	Twenty years ago, he asked questions in German.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u109	Minister, you know that penalty fines in our country are all too often unpaid. There are figures available from the former Minister of Justice. According to the calculation of the Court of Auditors, only 27% of the police sentences and only 14% of the penalties are recovered effectively. That's bitterly little. These low figures not only undermine the credibility of the judiciary, but also, of course, undermine the dissuasive and preventive effect that a fine should have. This also seems to me to be very demotivating for those who are responsible for the detection and prosecution of offenders. Finally, the Belgian State is losing a great deal of revenue. It is important that something is done about this. We have read that an action plan has been drawn up. The priority would be the effective introduction of the fine. If that is not possible, another prison sentence would still be carried out. Today this is not the case at all in practice. It is clear that the public prosecutors must always be kept informed of the progress of the recovery process. The FPS Finance is responsible for collecting the penalty fines and has now started a pilot project to collect unpaid fines. In mid-October, three thousand letters of formal notice were sent to persons who have an outstanding fine and who still have not paid after many reminders. After such a letter of formal notice one gets fifteen days to pay. The system is then followed and eventually a bailiff can be appointed. The letters of formal notice were sent in mid-October, with fifteen days to pay. That deadline is now over, so now is the time to ask a number of questions about the project. Firstly, where is the pilot project being carried out? Is that common and everywhere, or only in certain arrondissements? Secondly, how will payment be monitored in the pilot project? What is different from the previous situation? If a letter of formal notice was sent in the past, it seems clear to me that this had to be followed up as well and a bailiff sent out. Could you clarify the project, please? Thirdly, is this pilot project within a specified period of time? Will it be evaluated? When can we expect the evaluation? Fourthly, is there also a cost involved? Do you have an idea or can you give an estimate of what the proceeds might be, perhaps as part of the initial responses to the notices and payments? It is interesting to know what percentage one really hopes to collect. Finally, if a positive evaluation is made, is the project planned to roll out across the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u110	Mrs De Wit, that pilot project will take place in Ghent. In 2010 projects were launched in Ghent and Liège to enable automated management. This system has been in operation throughout the country since 2012, but it is undoubtedly flawed. The system records the penalty fines and sends payment messages, but it does not send payment reminders or orders to the bailiffs. Moreover, I have to say that the public prosecutors are not informed of the fact that they cannot be recovered. In an existing programme, called Debtor Management, on which the pilot project is based, unpaid fines are charged and a follow-up of the recovery process is possible. The pilot project in Ghent started on 29 September 2014 and runs until the end of the first quarter of 2015. Regular evaluation times have been introduced, but the final evaluation will take place at the end of that first quarter 2015. The adaptation of the existing application Debiter Management has been fully realised by internal means. Since the project is only running for a month, it is premature to comment on its results. Specifically, in Ghent, about three thousand unpaid fines were processed in the first weeks of the pilot project. It was a total of 2 839 939 euros, only in Ghent and concrete for this project. This has so far brought up 290 104 euros, i.e. about 10 %. In view of the recent start of the pilot project, enforcement has not yet been enforced by the bailiff. The new working method will be gradually rolled out across the country. A pilot project will first be launched in a Walloon office to be determined.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u111	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. If you see that the outstanding fines in Ghent alone amount to almost 3 million, that is a huge amount. This is cynical, knowing that justice is a very poor sector that can use every penny. I'm glad your pilot project is starting. I have one more question. I understand that no bailiff is being sent in this short term, but I assume that there are still other notices being sent in anticipation, or is it just one reminder? Then there is no point in letting the project run until the end of March and making it so long. We have 15 days; I assume that in the meantime a new warning should be sent in the hope of receiving further payments.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u112	I assume so, too, but I say that subject to reservation. I would like to make sure that the procedure is carried out in practice until the court bailiff takes action. I cannot, however, tell you that at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u113	That sounds interesting to me, because otherwise there will be a new gap. These are people who have already ignored notices before. If they let one pass now and there is no response, then we are not going to see any results either. It is already hallucinating that there was no follow-up, but now that there is, that must also be done effectively. If we leave it to one warning, it is not enough in terms of follow-up. That's what I'm hoping for.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u114	Mr President, Minister, my question indeed concerns the situation of contract agents after Basculement 3. The FPS Finance has committed itself, particularly in the context of the transfer of certain competences to the federated entities, to a large-scale restructuring and has created, through these various movements, a real concern among certain civil servants under open-ended contracts. Under Basculement 3, appointed staff members enjoying their statutory priority were able to choose a residence where their employment would be insured, often occupying positions previously assigned to staff holding an indeterminate contract. Many of them now find themselves in a difficult situation. They must make a choice among the remaining availabilities according to their current function and level. Some should therefore travel long distances between their home and their place of work, whereas often the indefinite contract which they had enjoyed for sometimes more than 10 years had given them a stable job near home. Therefore, Minister, in order to minimize the negative impact of such a restructuring on these contractors, could you consider giving them the opportunity to opt for a new choice of function (e.g. moving from VAT to recovery probably with a training obligation) or level (e.g. going back from level B to level C) in order to favour maintaining a designation close to their home?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u115	Mr. Gustin, thank you for your questions. The FPS Finance is engaged in large-scale restructuring, which causes some uncertainty among contract agents. Particular attention was therefore paid to the publication of all updated information to help contract staff make a transparent choice. A contact centre is also active in order to provide answers to the questions that arise for agents. Contractuals are currently employed to apply for residences where vacancies remain following the application of the Statutory Regulations. In view of the rules laid down in the Royal Decree which organizes the assignment of statutory and contractual staff to a new service, contractors may apply only for the residences of their own entity where there are still jobs corresponding to their level. Contractors may therefore be affected further from home than they are at present. But there is also a set of accompanying social measures designed to make this possible remoteness more bearable in terms of personal/work life balance. The Department is committed to further promoting teleworking and satellite office work while continuing its policy of increasing the number of jobs available in satellite offices. In certain specific cases, it is also possible to apply for temporary transfer on grounds of serious social or family status in order to allow staff who are in difficult circumstances to obtain an additional period of time to adapt their organisation of life following the lengthening of the distance between their home and their new place of work. One of the objectives of the FPS Finances is to promote internal mobility so that all agents who wish to do so can change their entity or function according to the needs of the organization. This mobility also applies to contract staff who, unlike statutory staff, cannot benefit from the principle of transfer. In view of the high number of retirements within the department, it is important to clarify that the objective is that each contracting agent retain a job within the FPS Finance. If a change of residence is necessary, an amendment to their employment contract will be proposed to them in accordance with the legislation on employment contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u116	Minister, thank you for this very specific answer. I'll pay attention, because there are people who are really worried about their future. You reassured me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u117	Mr President, Minister, an automatic external defibrillator is a complex term, which I would like to clarify when I ask my question. Let me just say this first. Although, in my opinion, this government is quite right to seek to broaden the taxable basis for VAT, we must not forget that there is legitimacy for different VAT rates. Several new health care products are such that they can easily save lives. One is an automatic external defibrillator. Perhaps no one in this Chamber is aware of this, but there are defibrillators in Parliament, or at least one. Allow me to illustrate the importance of this. Our higher brain functions disappear from three minutes after a circulation failure. After twenty minutes there is nothing left of our higher functions and that loss is irreversible. The most important thing to be done at such a moment is that the person concerned is given a shock within the first few minutes, so that the heart recovers its normal rhythm. In a country like Belgium, we have excellent health care. The MUG of any Brussels hospital will be here in 20 minutes. We'll get the heart going. I'm a cardiologist, so I know that a heart is a stupid organ, an organ of everything or nothing. However, the higher functions such as memory, brain and speech are permanently lost. That explains the importance of such devices. In Belgium there are 30 cardiac arrests a day. If you know that, the impact of that case will gradually become clear. It is therefore indicative that the Flemish government, in cooperation with the Red Cross Flanders, is working to teach as many people as possible to resuscitate and defibrillate via these devices. In Flanders we are a little behind in comparison with the Netherlands and Wallonia, where subsidies and sometimes even obligations exist for sports clubs and schools. Maybe we don't have to go that far. However, the most common obstacle to the purchase of that apparatus is, as we hear in the field, the high VAT rate of 21%. For example, for sports associations, these costs are a non-deductible expense, whereas companies can deduct those costs in full. An additional problem is that domestic traders in particular suffer from that VAT rate. In the Netherlands, for example, only 6% of VAT is due. That is why I have the following questions. Are you willing to help find a solution for the high VAT scale of that specific niche? In my opinion, the budgetary impact can only be positive at best, because the long-term care of people with brain damage has a huge budgetary impact. If a person's life can be saved in the first few minutes, the budgetary impact is simply spectacularly positive for all parties involved. Do you think it is possible to reduce that VAT rate to a logical 6%?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u118	It's about a VAT cut...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u119	Mr President, if this is done in the context of a tax shift, why not? Seriously. Mr Vercammen, the European Member States can apply a reduced VAT rate, because you know that we are faced with a non-important package of European directives for, I quote, medical equipment, tools and other devices that are usually intended for lighting and treatment of disabilities for the exclusive personal use of disabled people. External defibrillators could indeed be subject to the reduced VAT rate. You will understand, therefore, that such an adjustment obviously also has a budgetary impact, which is not included in the current budget. However, I think it would be very useful to take serious account of your suggestion in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u120	Mr President, Minister, we will certainly continue on the subject. Thank you very much for your kind treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u121	Minister, I have recently been asked about the problem of limiting cash payments in shops. Many controls are carried out in the context of the fight against money laundering. In fact, agents audit the managers of tobacco, alcohol and fuel stores, in order to verify the clarity of the operations carried out. As part of these controls, officials have already noted that managers are violating article 21, paragraph 1, of the Act of 11 January 1993 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, in force since 16 April 2012. It stipulates that the price of the sale by a trader of one or more goods, as well as the price of one or more services provided by a service provider, for an amount of EUR 5 000 or more, may not be paid in cash. In January 2014, this amount was reduced to EUR 3 000, despite the fact that this ceiling is particularly low for other EU countries: EUR 5 000 in Slovakia, EUR 5 112 in Bulgaria, EUR 14 000 in the Czech Republic; there are almost no limits in most other countries such as Germany, Austria, Iceland, Great Britain. It happens that some managers are being fined for non-compliance with this law, despite all the evidence they can provide to justify the legality of these payments. Several of them feel that their profession is significantly affected by this law. The same applies to other professions such as second-hand vehicle shops, in particular. Tobacco, alcohol and fuel, however, are products subject to excise duty. How could these managers cheat? Minister, would it be possible to relax this scheme, which has required, since January 1, 2014, that a claimant cannot pay in cash an amount in excess of EUR 3,000? Would it be possible to raise the ceiling to EUR 5 000 or 10 000? It seems to me that this system should be reviewed quickly because it is a matter of the financial health of a whole series of traders.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u122	Mr Clarinval, in response to your question, I would like to refer to the general policy note of 3 December 2014 from my colleague the Secretary of State for the fight against tax fraud. Among other things, Ms. Sleurs mentioned that the government would continue to combat money laundering practices, while taking into account international developments. For example, it refers to the draft 4th European anti-money laundering directive, in which the maximum amount of a cash payment is not EUR 3 000, but EUR 7,500. It also notes that this higher amount is applicable in most neighbouring countries. The government is in favour of harmonisation between European countries, which is in line with the Fourth European Directive. This problem will therefore be dealt with in consultation with the Secretary of State and the relevant ministers and in better harmony with the legislation of neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u123	Minister, I am pleased to see that the ceiling will be increased because it was obviously far too low. The amount of EUR 7 500 follows European harmonisation and this is very positive. I am pleased that this provision can be implemented very quickly. In addition, I will ask you very shortly about vehicle exporters because they would like to be exempted from the ceiling when they conduct transactions with abroad. In this regard, they are discriminated against when dealing with African countries. Thank you again for your very clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u124	Mr President, Minister, the press tells us that, starting next year, the tax administration will send tax returns via the Internet to the taxpayers' electronic box. We have some concerns about this announcement. First of all, the services offered via the Internet do not always work optimally. The Tax-on-web service sometimes suffers from some failures and within the administration itself there are difficulties with some computer programs. But, more challenging, electronic means would now be the rule. You will therefore require all taxpayers to complete their documents via the Internet. We believe that the use of electronic means should be encouraged, but certainly not imposed on all. It is important to realize that not everyone has easy access to a computer and that older people, for example, may not be able to adapt easily. Minister, how many Belgians are currently completing their declaration via the Internet via the Tax-on-web system? How do we do this if we still want to have a paper version of his statement? What is planned for Belgians who do not have computers or Internet access such as the elderly or the most disadvantaged? Why not send a pre-filled paper version of their return, such as the one found on Tax-on-web, to those who wish to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u125	Mr Crusnière, thank you for your questions. First of all, the erroneous information in the press that the tax administration will send tax returns over the Internet to the taxpayers' ebox should be rectified as soon as next year. The ebox is an electronic mailbox through which every citizen can receive official documents centrally and securely. It is in no way our intention to replace the paper declarations with an ebox. On the other hand, the role-extract warning will always remain available in My Minfin as is currently the case. The aim is to centralize in one place all the official documents of the citizen. For the 2013 tax year, 70.51% of taxpayers filed their personal tax returns via Tax-on-web. Any taxpayer who has never used Tax-on-web will automatically receive a paper return. In this case, he has a choice between submitting this paper return or finally deciding to file his return via Tax-on-web. When a taxpayer has filed his or her return via Tax-on-web for a previous tax year, he or she no longer receives a paper return from office unless he or she expressly mentions in Tax-on-web or My Minfin that he or she wishes to receive one. In any case, it is always possible for a taxpayer who wishes to complete a paper return to request a return form from his or her tax office. Older citizens should not, in principle, come back with a declaration. They receive a proposal for a simplified declaration. This is a letter containing a simulation of the tax calculation based on tax data of which the administration is aware. This provides taxpayers with the amount to be paid or receivable. Taxpayers who receive a proposal for a simplified return are exempt from completing and sending a return. We encourage the use of Tax-on-web which includes a large number of pre-filled entries. For taxpayers who do not have access to a computer or for the elderly, quality service is provided through filling assistance sessions in tax offices or municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u126	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I am reassured: this will not be the rule from now on, the logic remaining the same. I confirm to you that the services provided in the various offices are of quality and are very necessary in view of the long lines that form in the premises. I'll join you when you say you have to encourage Tax-on-web. But many people are still underprivileged in the face of statements. It is therefore necessary to allow for another alternative and to continue these tasks very well assured by the agents concerned when completing his statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u127	Mr Minister, the Special Tax Inspectorate has sent a report with a claim of one and a half million dollars to the Ieperse Autonomous Local Authority. If we add up to the interest and the fine, this could amount to EUR 5 million. Of course, it is not yet ready and the city administration has applied for mediation, but it has caused a great deal of concern. There are 168 autonomous municipal companies and 18 autonomous provincial companies that can all recover VAT. The VVSG has also already warned of the far-reaching consequences if the arguments of the BBI were to be extended to other boards. I am not so much concerned with the case in Ypres. Each autonomous municipality has other agreements and rulings with the tax authorities. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to get some more information. Is the BBI challenging the general principle of the recovery of VAT, the reason why almost all local authorities have set up an autonomous municipal company, or has Ypres been specifically excluded from the task package agreed with the tax authorities, and is there only a problem there? The municipalities are busy drawing up their budgets. The BBI's decision has caused some concern. I hope that you can reassure the municipal authorities that this is not yet the case and that they will not be getting high invoices in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u128	As Zaventem's ships, I agree with that question. We have built a cultural centre, thinking that it would cost EUR 25 million, but with the autonomous municipal company only EUR 20 million. So it's about a lot of money for the municipalities. What is the government's position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u129	Mr President, Mrs Pas, I think you know this, but I cannot and must not comment on individual tax dossiers. However, I can inform you that several autonomous municipal companies are currently subject to tax controls by the general administration of the BBI. Life can be hard. The general tax administrations, which must be able to operate in a sufficiently independent manner, have the task and right to monitor the application of the rulings granted. If the companies concerned have questions about specific dossiers, they can always go to the administration. Unfortunately, that is all I can say at the moment. I'm not allowed to.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u130	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u131	I do not have the exact figure of the number of municipalities, but the survey does not appear to be a unique case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u132	Mr Van Biesen, when it comes to tax cuts, you should show solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u133	You are a ship and a Member of Parliament. They cannot, of course, make an objective assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u134	We'd better move on to another subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u135	Mr Minister, I understand that you are no longer able to say anything about ongoing investigations, but that is unfortunately not reassuring for all these municipalities. As a signal, the financing of these investments can be called into question in the near future. If I understand correctly, it's just the municipal companies, not the provincial ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u136	The information I've been given is about the autonomous municipal companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u137	Can you stick up some of them?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u138	Based on my information, I can't. I'm even gonna have to find out if I can give you that number.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u139	It's more than one.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u140	Mr President, Minister, we have already discussed this subject a little on Thursday in plenary, and I will come back to it in an inquiry after the leave. However, I wanted to clarify at least one point: the real agreement you reached with your Luxembourg counterpart, the Minister of Finance, Mr Pierre Gramegna, on Monday 8 December. I saw you in a picture. At the end of the meeting, you informed the press that you had been assured by your Luxembourg counterpart that the Grand Duchy would pass on to Belgium all the tax rulings, including those that were not revealed in the LuxLeaks case. The next day, the minister denied the agreement, but the magnitude of the agreement you described. I would like some clarification on this "agreement". Minister, what are the rules that are actually covered by this agreement? On what basis will they be selected by the Luxembourg State? What years will they be affected? According to some press reports, the so-called LuxLeaks practice has existed for many years. How many rulings will be passed on to Belgium? Within which time will they be transmitted? What will be the exploitation of these rulings? Will they be analysed systematically? By which department of the tax administration? And with what means? Going back to what year? Have you planned to bring this issue of the transparency and communication of the rules at European level, at a forthcoming ECOFIN meeting, with the aim of organising an automatic and systematic exchange of rules between the neighbouring tax administrations concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u141	Mr Gilkinet, I will answer the first three questions in a comprehensive manner and then the next three questions separately. At my request, the above-mentioned service sent a request for information in order to obtain advance rulings on transactions involving undertakings or natural persons resident in Belgium or liable to tax in Belgium, and having a legal connection with undertakings or natural persons residing in Belgium or liable to tax in Belgium, such as direct shareholdings, permanent establishments, etc. The request for information from the competent authority of Luxembourg concerns advance rulings granted for years or situations for which the limitation period has not yet expired in Belgium. As regards your fourth question on the deadline, in my oral agreement with my Luxembourg counterpart, agreement was reached on a new meeting at the beginning of January to examine the structure of the operation and to begin the transmission of the rules from the end of January. With regard to your fifth question, the ISI and the General Tax Administration will analyze the files. They will be distributed for further investigation and monitoring. As far as your last question is concerned, Belgium has associated itself with the request by France, Germany and Italy to rapidly implement a European directive concerning firstly, the conditions for the issue of tax rules by the Member States and secondly, the automatic and compulsory communication of these rules to the tax administrations of the other Member States concerned. At ECOFIN on 9 December, the Council generally accepted this request for examination, including Luxembourg. Work on this subject will begin in early 2015 and a first progress report is expected at the end of June 2015. When the Directive is adopted, Belgian legislation on the issue of tax rulings will be amended if it is found that the current conditions for the issue of rulings are not in conformity with the Directive. Pending the adoption of the Directive, Belgium will continue to communicate to another Member State of the European Union the rules on which it requests communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u142	Thank you for that clarification, Minister. You started your answer by talking about "the above-mentioned service", but I don't know what service it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u143	FPS Services Finance in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u144	You did not answer my question about the number of rulings that would be sent to Belgium. I assume that this will be the subject of your further discussion with the Luxembourg Minister at the beginning of January. This question is obviously not anomalous and I hope that you will share with your colleague a broad view of the issue, and that the services of the ISI will be able to do their analytical work. This work will raise new questions for me; I would like to know the timing of the processing of these rather illustrative files. I note that, at ECOFIN level, the incident and media communication around LuxLeaks have triggered a first reaction that could lead to interesting decisions, on the understanding that we are advocating, as environmentalists, for maximum transparency. As I said to you in plenary, Belgium also practises aggressive regulation. I understand that it will continue to communicate with neighbouring countries on request. But since there is a desire to make the published agreements anonymous, I do not see how the neighbouring tax administrations could make an informed request to Belgium to obtain this type of ruling. We must apply to ourselves the rules that neighbouring countries are being asked to apply. It would be particularly useful to apply a form of "tax disarmament" between States. Indeed, the result of these aggressive practices, which you had described as "niche practices" last Thursday, is finally that all states steal States, and that the means of the public decrease. The winners are a few multinationals that can practice a form of tax mobility that is not given to SMEs or normal, wage-earning citizens who remain attached to their country and their tax administration. This will certainly give rise to further debate between us.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u145	Mr De Wit, this question about penalties is in line with your earlier discussion with Mrs De Wit. We know that the recovery of penalty fines has been a difficult process for years. We know that the rate of collection is low and that we now want to launch a project to speed up the recovery by making certain adjustments. That's very good. There is now also the possibility of a debt comparison with tax credits. This makes it easier to collect smaller amounts without recourse to a bailiff. I come to my specific question, Minister. What internal directives are in place for recipients on the collection of small amounts of tax and penalty fines? I am referring above all to the older decisions. An enforcement policy must be the same for everyone, but I have heard that amounts of less than EUR 500 would not be recovered according to the old decisions. Is that right or not? What internal directives exist in this area? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u146	Mr President, Mrs Wouters, it is certainly not correct that penalty fines below EUR 500 should not be recovered. More generally, the administration can't just cancel fines. Any unpaid fine must be notified to the court of the competent prosecutor of the King, so that a possible replacement penalty can be carried out. However, the recovery of amounts shall ensure that the means of recovery used are proportionate to the amount, so that no more costs are incurred than the recovery would be possible. Amounts of taxes and penalty fines up to 200 euros are not recovered via a bailiff. However, where possible, a simplified third-party seizure is carried out by the administration itself on the debtor's income of wages, rents, etc. of that order. No prosecution proceedings shall be initiated for amounts less than EUR 50. However, this does not mean that the administration is doing nothing. If the sentenced person does not pay the fine after two payment notices, his debt shall be declared liable for compensation with tax refund. In addition, the unpaid fine is notified to customs officials, who are authorised to identify and immobilise with numbering scanners vehicles whose owner has an outstanding fine on the public road and to pay the fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u147	Thank you, Minister, for this very clear answer. Such matters are being reported on the basis of rumors and I am very pleased that you can clarify the way in which you deal with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u148	Minister, the government agreement stipulates that the VAT fine system and the interest in negligence will be reformed on the basis of the good faith of the taxpayer rather than the bad faith. Due to the comprehensive nature of the VAT fine system, it has already been said that the abbreviation "VAT' stands for the "VAT' fine on value added tax, rather than value added tax. For the least violation of a VAT formality, the King provides for an administrative fine, even if the breach of VAT rules does not directly result in damage to the public authorities. Recently, a person who had submitted a zero VAT customer list late received an administrative fine of EUR 3 000. Where a taxable person with a 100 % right of deduction forgets to transfer VAT into the VAT return, a proportional fine of 20% may be imposed. However, the treasury has no disadvantage at all. In this case, no proportionate fine would be imposed in the Netherlands. Moreover, spontaneous correction does not necessarily lead to a situation in which fines can no longer be imposed. As a general rule, the VAT fine system does not allow a taxable person to correct the lateness of a VAT formality. Legislation is usually prepared by the administration. Their expertise in providing for an administrative fine for each offence, I do not question, do not misunderstand me. However, the VAT payers and, in particular, the accountants and accountants experience their application differently. When reforming the VAT fine system, their input would undoubtedly be useful in achieving a balanced system. Mr President, have the work on revising Royal Decrees Nos 41 and 44 already begun? In this context, is there consultation with the professional institutes, in particular the IAB and the BIBF? Can we assume that any reduction in VAT fines will also apply to pending disputes?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u149	Ms Wouters, on 1 July 2012 KB No. 44 fixing the amount of the disproportionate fines in respect of VAT entered into force. The KB aims to create a dissuasive effect on the non-compliance with certain VAT obligations by analogy with Article 445 of the WIB. The fines shall be fixed according to a scale which takes into account the nature and gravity of the infringement. It is indeed important that the principle of good faith should be used in the first instance. For a first and second similar offence, a reduced fine is applied. Only if the offence is committed in order to evade the tax will the amount of the highest fine be doubled to a maximum of EUR 5 000 per offence. The Government has no intention of reviewing the system of disproportionate tax fines on the substance. With regard to the application of proportionate or proportionate tax fines on VAT, the CFI is still no. 41 of 30 January 1985 shall apply. It already applies the principle of total remission of spontaneous legal proceedings before any intervention by the administration. The aim is also to reform and update the proportional fines system in line with the principles that were introduced relatively recently for the disproportionate fines. A reform of the system of fines does not necessarily mean that the tax fines will be reduced, given the dissuasive nature of the scheme. I can assure everyone that everything will be done in consultation with the representatives of the numbers professions and that several mixed working groups are already working in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u150	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad to hear that, among other things, the ILO is involved in the reform. I am concerned that there are often problems with computer applications, which makes it difficult to send in certain declarations in good time. I hope that people will take into account the fact that almost always, in good faith, they try to report it. There are sometimes very high fines for half a day or several hours of delay. I hope that these problems will be taken into account in the discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u151	Minister, this question is about a very specific matter. According to Article 19 of the OECD Model Convention, the State paying the bet of an official is liable to levy. In concrete terms, according to Article 19, the wager of officials living in Belgium who work in a neighbouring country is taxed by that neighbouring country. However, there is a problem with the Belgian-French Double Taxation Convention of 10 March 1964, which does not apply that rule to residents of another State having the nationality of the other State. It could then be expected that these persons would follow the general rule of workers, which would still make Belgians working as civil servants in France taxable. In France, however, the Conseil d'État held that those revenues should be catalogued under the residual article, thus conferring the power of taxation on the State of residence. In this way, the workers concerned will actually become very atypical frontier workers. In accordance with an administrative agreement between Belgium and France, the Belgian administration follows this view, so that Belgians working as civil servants in France are subject to the Belgian personal income tax retroactively from 1 January 2007. Now we all know that the Belgian income tax is much higher than that in France. We also notice this in the much higher Belgian gross incomes, which does not mean that there is always net more left. The Belgians who work as civil servants in France cannot, of course, get a higher gross wage in order to have the same net income after the Belgian tax as their French colleagues. It is therefore very unfortunate that this problem was not included in the Avenant of 12 December 2008 on frontier work. It is desirable that these Belgians should be covered by the French scheme, as provided for in Article 19 of the OECD Model Convention, both in the field of personal and social security. According to the negotiating calendar for the General Double Taxation Conventions, the 1964 Double Taxation Convention with France is being completely revised. A second round of negotiations took place in October. Why was the treatment of these atypical frontier workers not included in the negotiations on the Avenant of 12 December 2008? Is it the intention of Belgium, with the prospect of a new double taxation treaty, to include these atypical frontier workers under the normal rules of workers, so that they will pay both taxes and social contributions in the same state? What timetable does your administration envisage with regard to the negotiations on the new double taxation treaty? Do you have any idea when the double taxation agreement with France can be applied? Can Belgian nationals who are retroactively confronted with the high Belgian tax charges still invoke the procedure for an unlimited delay in recovery? You also know that when 7% of moratorium interests are due, the repayment of all these attacks becomes problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u152	Ms Wouters, during the negotiations on the Avenant of 2008, the Belgian delegation proposed to amend the rules applicable to the revenue from public functions, but France did not agree to this at the time. Belgium is in favour of aligning the rules applicable to revenue from public functions with the relevant provisions of the OECD model. As a general rule, the remuneration in question is taxed in the State which pays it. Period. The next round of negotiations is scheduled for the first semester of 2015. In view of the number and importance of the points still to be settled, it is impossible to say whether a full agreement will be reached during the next round. It is therefore very premature to comment on the date of entry into force of a possible new agreement. Where taxable persons are retroactively confronted with high Belgian tax charges, they may, in principle, rely on the unlimited delay of recovery procedure provided that they meet the conditions of admissibility in order to be able to obtain an effective unlimited delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u153	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope that a good agreement will be reached in the course of 2015 and that France will respect Article 19 of the OECD Convention in the new double taxation convention. There are not many people who are in this situation, but for them this is anything but a pleasant situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u154	Mr Minister, from the banking sector we were informed that the Atos company has changed or wishes to change its policy on the management of ATMs. Customers could currently collect money, no longer on the basis of the balance but on the basis of the expenditure limit. This means, for example, that if a person's expenditure limit stands at 620 euros per collection and at 1 250 euros per seven-day period, while the balance of that person's account is almost nil, a serious debit position may arise in the account, despite the fact that no reserve or cash credit has been allowed or requested in the account. This certainly seems to pose problems for so-called ordinary clients, but the banking sector is even more concerned about a specific clientele, especially those under control. Most of those persons under control have two accounts, their administrator's account and their allowance account, of which they can only collect money independently via their bank card. Until a few months ago, these customers could not go below zero and use the card according to the balance of their account. That protection would, according to the information we have received, disappear. Minister, we all agree that people must be protected from excessive debt. Several initiatives have already been taken by the government and Parliament, but I assume you share my view that commercial companies should also make their living. That's why I'm asking if you know about Atos' altered attitude. If the customer or, in the case of someone under control, the lawyer or any other administrator refuses to clear the negative position because the customer could not or could not go negative on the account, who will be held responsible as appropriate? Will you take an initiative to point out these problems to the company concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u155	There has been extensive telephone contact with Atos. They claim at high and low levels that nothing has changed in the way they work. Contact with Febelfin shows that the vast majority of banks work online. Cash withdrawals and electronic payments shall be granted separately each time on the basis of the actual balance on the account and taking into account the different elements associated with the account concerned, for example when there is an unauthorized debit position attached to the account or when the customer himself has set certain expenditure limits. I have asked the people of Atos to contact you if necessary for your additional information. They say that nothing has changed in their way of working, but in the light of your specific questions and your specific comments, we cannot leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u156	I conclude, Minister, that you share my concern about this element. It has been pointed out to me that many agencies say that they have received this directive and that in other words they will no longer be able to act from January if such accounts are negative. There is therefore a difference of opinion between Atos and the people of the financial institutions. Atos states that it is not his problem, but the problem of financial institutions, while saying that each account should be equal: if it can be in one account, it should also be possible in the other account, even for clients under control. I'm just trying to signal this. I feel that you share my concern, and that reassures me. I will also communicate this to the association of office holders of which several members have contacted me. I also hope that you will follow this point further, so that no new problems are created, especially for the weakest group of us, who sometimes take credit too easily. I've been the office manager of a Centea office myself for a while. When I pointed out to a woman that her account had been negative for six months, she spontaneously said: "That's not a problem," and she wrote a check from the same account. She said: "If you put that on it, the problem will be solved." I'm just saying, sometimes it's hard to protect people from themselves. This is taken out of life. I saw it with my own eyes. People like that have to be protected from themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u157	Mr. Chair, Minister, as part of our discussion of your policy statement, you have indicated that you are considering the dismantling of the Aging Fund during this Parliament. It was launched in 2001 to fund the increase in pension spending by 2030, but it has not been sufficiently funded by the various successive federal governments to fund the cost of pensions. As a reminder, according to the law, the objective of the Ageing Fund is to create reserves to finance, during the period 2010 to 2030, the additional expenditure of the various statutory pension schemes, following the ageing of the population. At the time, it was a question of creating a kind of buffer to pre-finance the additional costs announced with the arrival of the babyboom's children at the pension. According to the 2013 Annual Report of the Ageing Fund, the Fund's total portfolio as at 31 December was EUR 19,963 million. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that the decision you are going to make, if you confirm it, is not entirely trivial since these sums, at least on paper, were intended for the financing of pensions. Minister, are your intentions clearer today? When do you intend to proceed with this dismantling? How? I assume that it will be necessary to amend all or part of the Act of 5 September 2001 guaranteeing a continuous reduction in public debt and creating an ageing fund. How will Fund managers be involved in the dismantling process in practice? What will be the allocation of the amounts in the Fund's portfolio? Will they be dedicated to the financing of pensions or will they be used to reduce the federal government's debt altogether?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u158	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, I am indeed considering the dismantling of the Ageing Fund during this Parliament. But, as I have already said in the other discussions that we have had in this regard, before taking a final decision on this matter, it is clear that it must be preceded by a careful examination of the issue and all its implications. This review is currently under way within my departments. That is why it is premature, at this stage, to try to provide an answer to all your questions. These are very legitimate and I must answer them in a fundamental way. I can already point out that the possible abolition of the Fund would have no impact on the level of public debt, since at present the amount of the portfolio (about 20 billion) is deducted from it by the consolidation game.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u159	Minister, from intent to achievement, there are indeed still elements to be put in place. As you explain, by the game of consolidation, these amounts are finally virtual. However, there was a form of promise, or even political commitment, in the form of a law, that these amounts would be spent, beyond the reduction of the State's debt, on the financing of pensions. It is a commitment that has been made to future pensioners and cannot be swept away with a back of the hand. It cannot be considered overnight that these political acts, which have been imposed fiscal year after fiscal year, with a view to financing the Ageing Fund are no longer worth anything; otherwise, there would be a breach of a form of contract with the citizens. Those who created the Fund may be blamed for not being more specific about their intentions or for not having made firm enough commitments, but you may be blamed for breaking a commitment to the older ones if you sweep with a backhand, what they have done. What has been done must be undoed, but in a clean manner and, if possible, in compliance with the commitments made. We regret, in the area of pensions, that the balance is sought only by reducing the rights of the people concerned today or tomorrow, and not by alternative financing from which the Fund could have been one of the sources.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u160	On 20 November 2014, the FPS Finance published the decision on its website, Fisconet, that legal persons acting as directors, managers or liquidators of a company no longer have the option of subjecting their transactions to VAT from 1 January 2015. For example, management companies in the financial sector have not so far been subject to VAT, as the financial sector is not subject to VAT either. From 1 January that management company will also be subject to VAT. This means that the VAT will be payable if the service is provided from 1 January 2015 by a person acting as director, manager or debtor of a company and receiving the remuneration from 1 January 2015. Mr Minister, the decision abolishes the option of subjecting transactions carried out by a legal person acting as director, manager or debtor of a company to VAT or not. Does that decision apply only if a legal person acts as a director, manager or liquidator of a company? Or does the abolition of the possibility also apply if a legal person acts as director, manager or liquidator of a legal person that is not a company? Secondly, how can you support this sudden decision of your administration? Companies and, where applicable, all other legal entities will face a significant increase in the cost of the fees charged by legal entities acting as directors, managers or liquidators from 1 January 2015 and previously benefiting from an exemption from VAT? Do you intend to postpone the entry into force of the decision by, for example, one year on 1 January 2015, in order to allow companies and, where appropriate, other legal entities to take into account the financial impact of the decision when drawing up their budgets for the following year?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u161	Mr Van Biesen, as a result of the European Commission's directive, the administration decided on 20 November with the famous ET decision to delete the option. All listed legal persons will therefore have to identify themselves for VAT purposes and the fees they receive for all their transactions as such will, in principle, have to be subject to VAT without any choice being made in this respect. The decision initially took effect on 1 January 2015. The administration is currently examining the first question you have asked, which is quite rightly so. In the meantime, it has already planned to publish a detailed administrative clarification for the sectors concerned on the problem and on other problems of interpretation which have already been submitted to the administration, which are indeed there. In its decision of 12 December 2014, published on the Fisconetplus website on the same date, the administration decided to postpone the entry into force of the decision of 20 November for one year until 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u162	Thank you, Minister, for the accuracy with which you have dealt with the problem, so that we have one year to translate the consequences and provisions of the European directive into Belgian law. Then it can be a correct translation, without major implications for the sectors concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic039x.u163	Minister, you were able to answer the 45 questions on the agenda. So everyone had a chance to ask their questions before Christmas. It was the last meeting of the season. So I wish you all a good debate tomorrow. We'll meet again in 2015. In early January 2015, we will start an ECOFIN briefing.
