ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome two professors here today. The first is Professor Michel Maus, lecturer at the VUB and at the University of Antwerp. He's a well-known tax specialist. The second is Professor Denis-Emmanuel Philippe, lecturer and lawyer at the bar associations in Brussels and Luxembourg, specializing in Luxembourg tax. After the leaking of LuxLeaks, Professor Maus wrote a number of free stands and made a number of statements about the lessons we can draw from LuxLeaks. He pointed out that the whole issue, which is not about tax fraud but about tax avoidance, raises the question of whether international legislation allows international tax avoidance. With regard to the legal arrangements, he wondered whether there was any possibility in Europe of creating legislation on this issue. He talked about the coalition of the willing to see how we can combat certain tax privileges at European or international level. Mr Michel Maus has a strong opinion on such matters. With regard to the sale of Marc Coucke's company, which did not pay taxes on added value, Mr Maus said that Belgium is a tax oasis in this area. Professor Denis-Emmanuel Philippe will talk to us about the problem of Luxembourg taxation, its attractiveness and the instruments at our disposal to remedy it. It will also refer to the ruling and its formal validity. It will also give some consideration to Belgian taxation and develop some prospects for the future. I propose that the two professors take the floor as a first step. Then we will ask them questions and discuss the issue of LuxLeaks. In the course of the exchange of views, we will ask them what suggestions they can make with a view to carrying out legislative work in the coming months and thus remedying this problem of European and international taxation. We will also be able to see the possibilities inherent in our taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u2	Mr President, thank you for organizing these hearings. I agree with your proposal on the method to be followed. But could a report be drawn up and, therefore, a rapporteur should be appointed now? I'd like to take on that role. In addition, it may be useful, at the end of the work, to decide on the appropriateness of hearing from other experts. We must not make the decision now but allow ourselves the freedom to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u3	Mr Gilkinet, it will be important to refer to the full report, so there will be no report. Of course, when the discussion continues, we can incorporate what has been said in another report.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u4	Mr President, it does not matter to me how long it is possible to dispose, in writing, of the exchanges.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u5	You will receive an in-depth account of the meeting provided by the Parliamentary annals team.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u6	The main thing is to have a text and a report from the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u7	Professor Maus, I suggest you begin. You know the context and are sufficiently familiar with Parliament to know what will interest my fellow Members. You can also make any suggestions about the policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the committee, I have prepared a PowerPoint presentation. The first thing I would like to explain briefly is a report by the Dutch Court of Auditors on the equivalent of our Court of Auditors on tax avoidance that appeared in the Netherlands two weeks ago. I forwarded that report, but I got a message that the file was too large. I brought a paper version. The findings of the Dutch Court of Auditors on tax avoidance are quite negative, which is somewhat bizarre. After all, the Netherlands also has a number of very important regimes that allow tax avoidance. In general, it comes down to this. You will find the three points on the slide. Firstly, the creation of favor regimes is mainly based on attracting multinationals. That leads to a race to the bottom. However, the question needs to be asked as to the added value of such favour regimes for the economy. Secondly, reducing the tax burden on multinationals means that the tax burden on SMEs and private individuals must be kept too high to finance those favor schemes. Finally, but I think that is an open door; it is an international problem that obviously requires an international approach. When we look at what is currently moving at international level, we see that the international world is not standing still and that a lot of initiatives are already being taken in this area. Two things are currently happening in the European Union. Firstly, we want to amend the Parent-Subsidiary Directive with the introduction of an anti-abuse clause. Secondly, we want to tackle a certain structure, in particular hybrid loans which do not result in double taxation but a double non-taxation. Those are things that people want to carry out. A second point is that the European Commission is gradually drawing Member States' attention to the issue of ruling, in order to assess the extent to which rulings constitute prohibited State aid or not. The Netherlands now has some problems with the Starbuck story but Belgium is also in the crosshairs with the famous ruling for AB InBev that appeared in the press two weeks ago. As far as the OECD is concerned, we also have an important evolution with the BEPS report, Base Erosion and Profit Shifting. The two main recommendations in this area are as follows. Firstly, the OECD states that taxation must take place where value creation takes place. Secondly, there is a strong support for international transparency, both with regard to companies and with regard to public authorities. For multinationals and, in fact, for companies tout court, we want to introduce a reporting obligation on the allocation of global profits. With regard to the tax authorities, openness is required about the ruling policy. That's what happens. From a Belgian point of view, the question is whether this is sufficient or whether there are still matters that Belgium can put forward in this international problem. Two things are important here. Belgium can take initiatives at international level but it can also take a number of steps at national level. When we look at things at international level, at European Union level, we see that the proposals are primarily directed against companies themselves but not so much against governments. The State aid story is an exception to this. The purpose of the anti-abuse provision is not to target Member States but to target companies that use tax favor regimes. Then the question is whether that is a good thing or not. In the end, tax avoidance and tax avoidance structures still exist in the pardon of what the government allows. There are many loopholes in the system that are consciously created or consciously maintained. The question then is whether we should not adopt a different attitude and rather target the Member States or the countries tout court rather than the companies using the systems. It would therefore be a good thing if the Belgian model, which we introduced with the sixth state reform in our special financing law, were to be put forward at European level. On this occasion, we have created a system whereby our regions, however, we may as well pass it on to the European Member States, which have been banned from tax competition. This provision is clearly registered in our special financing law, coupled with an annual consultation to check whether the special tax regimes introduced by the regions comply with the concept of deloyal or loyal tax competition. We could also propose this model at European level. After all, one thing is clear after the criticisms about LuxLeaks, even with Mr Juncker. Everyone is convinced that deloyal tax competition is excesses that need to be addressed. The Belgian model could be a nice model. What we do not have in our funding law, but what we could also propose, is a European ruling. The concept of deloyal tax competition is not currently enshrined in the European Treaty. It only includes a ban on state aid. However, we could introduce the concept of a ban on deloyal tax competition into the European Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Linked to this, it might not be unwise to work at European level for some sort of European ruling for the Member States. If a Member State wishes to introduce a tax favor regime, it would be able to obtain a prior authorisation from the European Commission, which provides that the system introduced is in line with the concept of fiscal competition. That model has developed Belgium. It might be wise to propose it at European level. What is OECD's main criticism? That is that the BEPS story is directed exclusively at companies, but not at tax avoidance in respect of individuals. What can we do in this respect? There are also a number of steps and proposals that Belgium could put forward. The story AB InBev was not really new for many fiscalists. However, many people at political level seem to have. They are shocked by the fact that Belgian companies abroad, even in Luxembourg, are given relatively easy rulings. In the light of the current global tax transparency at international level where the banking secrecy system is virtually non-existent, the exchange of bank data is being pursued and the normative framework created for that purpose, it might be wise to introduce an automatic data exchange for tax rulings issued for residents or companies with their tax residence in another Contracting State. In this respect too, therefore, there is immediate transparency through the exchange of data between tax administrations. Secondly, I believe that our ruling committee is currently operating a system of publication of rulings, unless requested not to publish them. As a company or individual, it is possible to ensure that the ruling is hidden from the outside world. I do not think this is a good thing. I consider rulings to be a kind of administrative case-law in which, from the point of view of taxation, we take steps and take positions. Those views must be known to everyone so that this precedent can also be applied by other taxpayers. I come to a third proposal, in particular the tax cliquet system. We need international tax standards so that the excesses of non-taxation and very heavy taxation no longer exist. I would like to take the example of VAT legislation at European level. In this respect, there are minimum rates that each Member State must respect. The minimum VAT rate shall be 15%. No Member State can be included, except for special derogations. The general rate must be 15%. Why should we not be able to introduce the same standard for taxing profits at international level? It is possible to provide for minimum levels, but also maximum levels. The tax burden on certain forms of income... I am thinking in particular of labour income... should not exceed certain levels. These are proposals that Belgium could make at international level. It seems to me quite pointless to implement this at national level, because if the other contracting parties do not cooperate, they will put themselves in the bank and lose economic profitability. This must therefore be done at international level. There are also a number of measures that can be taken at national level. We also have internal tax avoidance. Tax avoidance takes place not only at international but also at national level. We will, of course, end up with the tax-shift story which has dominated the political debates in recent weeks. In the meantime, I believe that everyone is convinced that we must take this step. The tax burden on labour is far too high. Taxation must be dealt with in a different way, and it will be possible to do so in budgetary terms only through a shift in the tax burden. Saving is obviously the first priority, but this will not be enough. There will also have to be a shift from one thing to another. The debate on the tax shift has now been conducted only in the area of personal taxation, but we must also dare to ask the same question in the area of corporate taxation. My main criticism of the tax policy of the last few decades is that many corporate tax favors mainly benefit multinationals. The notional interest deduction and the deduction for patent income weigh in budgetary terms in favour of the multinationals. The question is whether we should not evaluate this. As demonstrated in the Dutch report on tax avoidance, tax avoidance creates an imbalance in the competitive position between our SMEs and the multinationals. That's not a good thing. We must also be able to encourage the small ones to grow up and not just the big ones to grow up. That would be an important lesson for me for fiscal reform. However, the necessary time has to be allocated to the exercise that needs to be done now. It must be a very sensible exercise. The examples abroad have shown that this exercise can certainly succeed, but that it must be well thought out. Both in Britain and in the Netherlands reform committees were set up in recent years to prepare tax shift policy. Everyone from the tax society was involved in this. Those were very nice exercises, which produced results. On this basis, a plan was drawn up to reform the tax regimes, but over a longer period, namely 10 to 20 years from now. We should do the same. Last but not least, legal action can also be taken. There is also a public debate within the framework of the transparency that is now being requested. The stories surrounding LuxLeaks have led to public indignation. In Britain, apart from the legal and legal debate, we have also been able to play on the sense of what is possible and what is ethical. I suppose most committee members are aware of what was done in the UK two years ago, namely the parliamentary hearing with Amazon, Google and Starbucks. That's a hallucinating story, but it did deliver results. In the end, the message from the committee members was that what these companies are doing is not illegal, but that it is unethical. The three multinationals finally gave in to public opinion and voluntarily reversed their tax structures. They're going to pay more taxes in Britain. It is therefore purely a story of common sense, in which we must pay attention to what can and cannot be done. What has struck me in the past week is the press conference of Mr Brito of AB InBev. There there was immediately another threatening language spoken that if the tax system changed in Belgium, it could not be guaranteed that production would remain in Belgium. At the same time, Michel Moortgat of Moortgat brewery gave a press conference in which he said he had stayed in Belgium and paid 30% corporate tax, while the big competitors in Luxembourg are sitting and are threatening to speak, although their tax burden is much lower, which means unfair competition. What message can politics give? Are you going to give in to the pressure of a multinational? If you do so, you should take into account that the smaller players in the story will also take such steps. That is a self-destructive prediction: the smaller players send you on that path. Or are you going to try to turn the spirits anyway? A company like AB InBev, with 2 500 employees, must realize that its employees are well-trained people, and that is a result of our education system, which must be financed somewhere. Production in Belgium is of course an excellent thing, but exports are only possible thanks to a well-developed road network, a port and airports. These things cost money, too, and that money has to come from somewhere. That awareness may also need to be grown, but I fear that we still have a long way to go there. So far, Mr President, my explanation goes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u9	Professor, thank you for your presentation and your policy suggestions. We will be able to go into this in more detail later. I now give the floor to Professor Denis-Emmanuel Philippe, specialist in Luxembourg taxation, European and international taxation in general, rules and formal validity. Mr Philippe will give us some considerations and prospects for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u10	Mr President, as an introduction, I would like to say that I am very honoured to be invited here today and that I am particularly interested in the subject because I have just published a book on the use of Luxembourg structures by Belgian residents - companies and individuals. This book was published two days before LuxLeaks. It's the chance of the calendar. I will address several points. First of all, I will mention Luxembourg's tax attractiveness, particularly for Belgian residents. These tax attractions were revealed by LuxLeaks. Then I'll tell you a few things about the validity of these rules. Are they enforceable against the Luxembourg tax authorities? Is it possible to question them? I will then continue with a few Belgian tax considerations. Can the Belgian tax authorities invoke anti-abuse measures to combat the use of these Luxembourg structures? Finally, I will conclude by setting out some prospects for the future. First of all, I would like to point out that Luxembourg is a master at home. In principle, it is free to define its fiscal policy as it sees fit to attract multinationals. It should also be noted that there is a lack of fiscal harmonisation at European level with regard to direct taxes. LuxLeaks highlighted the fiscal attractiveness of Luxembourg taxation. What do we find in all these rulings? Luxembourg structures are used, especially three types of vehicles. The first guy is the holding companies. It should be noted that Luxembourg holding companies benefit from a very advantageous tax system, namely the full exemption of dividends they receive and the capital gains they make on shares. It should be stressed that the Luxembourg tax system for holding companies, also known as SOPARFI, is more flexible, more advantageous and more attractive than the Belgian tax system for holding companies. Here I take a diagram illustrating a Luxembourg SOPARFI which holds subsidiaries in the European Union with little tax. These rules contain SOPARFIs which hold companies in Gibraltar with a very low tax rate. Where a company established in Gibraltar distributes a dividend to a SOPARFI, Luxembourg shall accept the full exemption of the dividends distributed. In the case of a Belgian holding company, these dividends would be taxed and would not benefit from the parent-subsidiary privilege. This is an example of the attractiveness of the Luxembourg holding regime. Another type of vehicle that can be found in these rulings is the companies that own intellectual property rights: IP companies. The Luxembourg IP regime is more favourable than the Belgian IP regime, the patent income deduction. Two illustrations of the attractiveness of the Luxembourg tax system in the field of intellectual property rights. Firstly, this IP regime is applicable to a variety of intellectual property rights: patents, trademarks, copyrights in computer software; whereas the Belgian regime is limited to patent revenues. Secondly, the implementation of this Luxembourg scheme is much easier. It is much easier to apply in Luxembourg than in Belgium. One example is that there is no condition for improving and developing intellectual property rights in Luxembourg, which is the case in Belgium with the patent income deduction. There are also intra-group financing companies, which have access to a favourable tax system. It should be noted that the Belgian press has largely echoed Belgian groups using Luxembourg structures and setting up international tax planning schemes with a view to significantly reducing the tax burden on companies in Luxembourg. Here I will mention three montages that have been revealed by these LuxLeaks and by the Belgian press. First of all, the allocation by a Luxembourg company of debts to a foreign branch. If a Luxembourg company allocates a debt to a foreign branch, for example in Ireland, it is possible to avoid the imposition of interest in Luxembourg, since it is allocated to the permanent establishment abroad. This results from the application of the applicable Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation. There have also been instances of hidden inputs of intangible assets. In short, when a group transfers intangible assets to a Luxembourg company, the company may benefit from an exemption of one party, a percentage of its profits. This is the result of the hidden contribution concept which is supported by Luxembourg law and a recent decision of the Luxembourg Administrative Court. Secondly, a tax planning structure that has been widely heard recently in the press, and Professor Maus mentioned it, is the use of hybrid financial instruments. Perhaps it's easier if I illustrate my point with an example. It is a structure whereby a Belgian company issues a hybrid instrument, called a participative loan or a PPL (Profit Participating Loan) to a Luxembourg company. The Luxembourg company subscribes to this participative loan issued by the Belgian company. What is the attractiveness of this structure? We are going to play with a conflict of qualifications since this same hybrid instrument qualifies as a debt in Belgium. The Belgian company will therefore pay deductible interest in Belgium and when these interest reaches the level of the Luxembourg company, they qualify as dividends because this PPL qualifies as own funds in Luxembourg. We are therefore playing with this conflict of qualifications. We have a debt instrument in Belgium and we have equity, shares in Luxembourg, which allows us to create a non-taxation of interest in Luxembourg and a deduction in Belgium. There is thus a deduction in Belgium which is not compensated by taxation in Luxembourg. This montage was exhibited brilliantly by Belgian journalists, notably in Le Soir and De Tijd. This fiscal planning is challenging, but it is being fought at European level. It's important to say so. The mother-daughter directive, of which Professor Maus spoke, has been amended. The result of this amendment is simple since Luxembourg will have to tax the income of these hybrid instruments from 31 December 2015. I would like to draw attention to the fact that international measures are being taken to combat these patterns of tax planning. There is the mother-daughter directive, but there is also the OECD action project, called BEPS (Base Erosion and Profit Shifting), which I will talk about in a moment. The second point concerns the formal validity of these rules revealed by the LuxLeaks case. The first question is whether they are in conformity with Luxembourg's tax law. A priori, I would reply in the affirmative, as these rules make explicit reference to Luxembourg's tax provisions. On the other hand, another crucial question is whether these rules violate EU state aid rules or not. I am not going to go into detail, but the question is whether these rules constitute state aid, which is prohibited by European law. To know this, it is necessary to see whether the Luxembourg tax authorities have granted certain companies a tax advantage which they could not have had if they had not obtained a ruling. In other words, it must be seen whether the Luxembourg tax authorities have used their discretion to benefit one or the other company or a sector of undertakings in particular. This question will be decided by the European Commission, which is currently examining whether or not some of these rules constitute prohibited State aid, since this decision can obviously be censored by the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would now like to say a few words about the practice of rilings in Luxembourg. It should be borne in mind that, as reported in the press, only a short time ago, the rules were granted by a single person. This procedure was amended in 2013 as the person concerned is a retired person and has been replaced by a six-member commission, which reduces the discretion and discretion. In addition, a bill to modernize the practice of ruling is now on the table. It aims to ensure uniform application of Luxembourg's tax law. So I come to a few considerations on Belgian taxation. First, a Belgian company or natural person is, in principle, free to establish a subsidiary in Luxembourg. In doing so, it simply uses the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by European law. This is an elementary principle, I would like to remind you. Moreover, the Belgian tax authorities have an arsenal of anti-abuse measures. These include the general anti-abuse measure set out in Article 344(1) of the CIR, which was rewritten on the occasion of the Act of 29 March 2012. In my view, this anti-abuse measure, which I am talking about in detail in my book, is liable to apply to combat the use of Luxembourg companies when the intervention of such structures is part of an assembly without economic substance and motivated by purely fiscal considerations. At the same time, Belgium has a range of specific anti-abuse measures. Let us take the example of a transfer of intangible assets by a Belgian company to a related Luxembourg company. If such a transfer is made without consideration, the Belgian tax authorities could perfectly invoke Article 26 of the Income Tax Code, which allows it to reinstate, in the taxable basis of the Belgian company concerned, the amount of the benefit which is granted to the Luxembourg company linked to it. This is the value of intangible assets transferred from Belgium to Luxembourg. I would now like to touch on a final point on the prospects for the future. I will be relatively brief since Michel Maus has already given many avenues for reflection in this area. One point seems essential to me: many tax optimization schemes revealed by the LuxLeaks case will be broken down in the coming months and years by several international instruments. One of them is a very ambitious OECD action project that is more commonly referred to as BEPS, which is the acronym of Base Erosion and Profit Shifting. This action plan aims to put an end to the loopholes exploited by multinationals to escape tax in their home countries by transferring profits to jurisdictions with lower or no tax levels. These standards proposed by the OECD are aimed at combating non-taxation of profits. What is important to note in the context of LuxLeaks is that the Luxembourg government has declared that it is a member of this OECD project and that every company has to pay its fair share of the tax. However, Luxembourg's Finance Minister has made its full membership conditional on respect for a level playing field. His intention is therefore clear: he agrees to implement these OECD recommendations in Luxembourg legislation on the condition that the major financial centres, all developed economies do the same. I referred to the mother-daughter directive when I referred to hybrid instruments between Belgium and Luxembourg in particular. The Mother-daughter Directive has recently been amended to combat the use of these hybrid instruments. As of December 31, 2015, these tax planning schemes will no longer be effective. Finally, the President of the European Commission put on the table a proposal for a directive to introduce an automatic exchange of information on tax rules. In my view, if this proposal emerges, it could be a very effective instrument to combat tax evasion and avoidance. I'll take a simple example. If the Luxembourg tax authorities grant a ruling tomorrow to a Belgian company, the Belgian tax authorities will automatically and immediately be aware of the existence of this ruling. It may intervene, where appropriate, in particular by relying on its anti-abuse measures. I believe that this proposal is in the right direction. I will end with a final remark. The Luxembourg Finance Minister said that this proposal was welcome and he was ready to support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u11	Thank you, Professor Philippe, for this very interesting presentation. I shall now give the floor to the members to allow them to put their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u12	Mr. Chairman, Professor Maus made a very interesting and committed presentation. When he talks about minimum tax, I guess he's talking about a minimum income tax. Indeed, during the election campaign, some thought of a minimum tax, whether it was income or not. Professor Philippe, given the discretionary nature of the ruling, is this concept of discretion relevant to compliance with a Luxembourg law? If so, Europe will not be able to refer to discretionaryity, but it can criticize it anyway. You both said "yes."
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u13	If one departs too much from the legal text and the traditional interpretation advocated by the Luxembourg administration or courts, a problem could indeed arise!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u14	So this is a minimum income tax, Professor Maus? [[Oui]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u15	Mr President, I shall first ask a few questions about the legal frameworks mentioned. You spoke, Professor, of article 26 of the Income Tax Code, indicating the possibility for the tax administration to reintegrate the assets that would have been transferred into the assets of Belgian companies. Is it not the profits generated by these assets? Or is it not rather the absence of any capital gains in connection with the realization of these assets? It seems to me that Article 26 allows profits to be reinstated but not the assets to be reinstated. And it seems to me that in your document, you're talking about a reinstatement of assets. Can you give me more details about this? A second element: as far as the reinstatement of assets is concerned, you do not refer to Article 344(2). This article, which must be distinguished from Article 344(1), which deals with tax abuse, allows the tax administration to consider transactions in transfers of assets, including patents or other intellectual property rights, as non-applicable from the moment such transfers take place to companies located in tax havens or to companies benefiting from an exorbitant regime. I would therefore like to know whether, in your opinion, in certain specific cases, Article 344(2) will apply in the cases revealed in the context of Luxembourg Leaks. I believe that this is a weapon that can be relatively powerful in the hands of the Belgian tax authorities. A third question concerns the legality of these arrangements. As has been read in the press kits, some observers have stated that all this is perfectly legal. Since it is legal in Luxembourg, it is necessarily legal in general. Are we so sure? I'm talking to the two lawyers. For example, in the case you refer to, namely the famous hidden assets. In one of the schemes revealed in Luxembourg Leaks, there is a Belgian company – and I will not mention a name, Mr President – which sees its Luxembourg subsidiary as a so-called hidden asset, an intangible asset in reality (competence centre, human resources management, etc.). which is valued on the assets of the Luxembourg company's balance sheet and which gives rise to a depreciation over ten years which will allow at least twenty million euros of profits to be squashed annually. If the Belgian tax authorities consider that the assessment of this intangible asset, even though the Luxembourg ruling would have been in agreement, is not based on anything - in other words, if it is an evaluation process based on non-existent things - then are we not in the false register? If so, is there not the opening of a new chapter in the possibility of the tax administration reacting? I'm talking about the criminal chapter. This false assessment is based on nothing, but – in the end – it would lead to a tax loss for Belgium. Of course, within the group, there are operations to locate profits in Luxembourg, since the latter offers the possibility to sponge them. More generally, in the schemes that you have been given to examine, is everything perfectly legal, especially from the point of view of the financial channels that are underlying certain transactions? From the moment it is shown that some of the financial channels on which the tax arrangements are based are false, is it possible to argue the criminal register? Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u16	Mr President, I would like to thank both professors for the workable slopes and the very useful work. You are talking about the screening of the tax treaties that the OECD has imposed on itself. Impact analyses are also carried out at European level. Can you, from your comparative study, give an overview of the whole programme and an assessment in terms of economic disadvantage for countries exposed to tax-deloyal competition? Would it not be a good idea to include a clause in the double taxation treaties by default, which makes double non-taxation impossible and imposes a default rule in each treaty? To what extent can the viewing fee, in the context of the evaluation of the files of LuxLeaks known to you, provide an answer? We are, of course, still at the stage of development, but perhaps you can make a statement about it on the basis of the contours that you can already understand, without having a very solid normative framework. In the light of the policy recommendations, it might also be appropriate to shed your light on this issue. You can draw attention to certain aspects which need to be taken into account when working, because they can be a very interesting addition to avoid such excesses. As far as the rulings are concerned, you are talking about transparency. The coalition agreement states that an evaluation must be carried out, but that independence is not insignificant either. Do you think, from the point of view of practice, that there would be an economic disadvantage if the constructions and schemes were published, even anonymised? You talk about deloyal tax competition and say yourself that this is a problematic concept to fill in. In your opinion, there should be an application for conformity so that the European Commission or the European Court can decide on it. The procedure will then be followed by the Commission, the Council and Parliament and there will be a requirement for unanimity in these matters. What countries do you see as opponents of your investigation who could delay the process or who are not at all served by such an arrangement? The suggestion of parliamentary hearings with the companies concerned, Mr President, must be taken to heart. I would like to touch on the contradiction between multinationals and SMEs. Of course, this also fits in with the commitment to provide some legal certainty for the coming years. The question is whether one should then move to a shift or, precisely from the shift point of view, can one do something complementary SME-oriented? Can I get another reaction to that? Finally, in the light of your proposal on a tax cliquet, you said that we should work within certain ranges at EU level. It would be interesting to know if you have calculated margins in mind there.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u17	Mr President, I would like to thank both of our speakers. Indeed, together, we have seen just in the light of the problem we are studying. They have had the merit of submitting very concrete leads. First, it would be appropriate to look at how our tax administration can deal with these issues, because we are dealing with school cases. And I understand that certain elements of Belgian tax law make it possible to requalify certain elements of these cases, which have been zero-rated through this Luxembourg ruling, as a taxable basis. If so, the question should be asked as to why these available tools are not being used. But perhaps we need complementary tools both at Belgian and European level. So, as far as national legislation is concerned, I would like to ask our experts about three ways of strengthening it. First, with regard to the use of CFC rules, as in other countries, do you believe that this is a tool that could usefully complement our legal arsenal to avoid this type of tax evasion? Secondly, it seems to me that more work could be done on transfer pricing legislation. Do you think, where you are, that Belgian legislation is sufficiently effective in this area? Thirdly, larger countries, France and Germany, have legislation that may also be more powerful in terms of companies operating both in the national territory and in other countries. It's the foreign tax system. It seems that this allows the German state to have fewer tax avoidance mechanisms. Do you confirm this diagnosis? Is this type of legislation adaptable to Belgian law? Secondly, in view of the ruling, the Luxembourg State has committed itself to be more transparent in the future. Are you also in favour of the publication of negative case law (rejected rulings)? Should they be published? That's my conviction. Is this done in other countries? Is it absolutely necessary to anonymize the rulings? On the contrary, should the principle not be provided for in the legislation... I quite liked the example of Mr Maus who compared the international group AB InBev with the Moortgat brewery, and there are other breweries. Can we not ultimately revalue the fact of paying a contribution to life in society, by showing the level of contribution paid? And more negatively, give a signal to the citizen who would be sensitive to the fact that societies are trying to escape the contribution to life in society. In comparative law, do you know any countries where this is done? Are you in favour of greater transparency in the ruling? I think that if the Luxembourg ruling had been more transparent, and if it did not happen in an office with only one person for years, many difficulties might have been prevented. At European level, there are many avenues on the table and commitments. The problem is that commitments are not often followed up. But perhaps there is an opportunity, following the emotion created around this issue, with the personality of the President of the Commission – it is said that the former poachers make the best hunters. I like the idea that Belgium is a European forerunner. It has been quite often. The special financing law and the principle of tax non-competition between regions in Belgium are really interesting. Are you aware of the beginning of a discussion on this topic? We know that the principle of unanimity is one of the elements that prevent us from moving forward at European level on a form of fiscal harmonisation, whether it is the taxable basis or the more precise principles of taxation. Could we imagine moving forward with a coalition of countries interested in creating an area where tax competition within Europe would be prevented? I think that would be a way of strengthening the European project at the same time as the individual Member States. These are some thoughts and questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u18	Mr President, I would like to thank the two tax experts for coming, for their explanations and, above all, for their suggestions to this committee and Parliament today. What interests me, and probably most of the committee members, is what Belgium can do as a result of what we have established at the Luxembourg Leaks. Many suggestions have rightly been made that we should try to tackle a lot of issues, especially at European and international level. That is obvious and very important. It would be a good thing if our country were to play a leading role in this. Perhaps from this committee we can make the recommendation to the government, because at that level the discussions are taking place at European level. A leading role at international level is important, also with the history of our country, which was often a predecessor on good things at European level. Our country can and must play that role. In addition to what we need to change at international level, the question remains, of course, what can we do at Belgian level? During the past period, I felt uncomfortable, because from the first hours after the publication of the Luxembourg Leaks, international tax avoidance was constantly being discussed. Some drew the conclusion that international tax avoidance made creative use of gaps in national and international tax legislation, and that it is what it is, that we have to accept that and close the gaps. For us, the question is whether certain rulings concluded in Luxembourg and where the Luxembourg Minister, the Luxembourg Government, sign the Luxembourg Government because it is in Luxembourg's right can be accepted, whether this is in accordance with Belgian law. That is a very important question for me. When you see and hear Professor Maus' presentation, you talk about international tax avoidance and how best to deal with it internationally, you talk about national tax avoidance and how to deal with it, but you do not say anything about how we can deal with international tax evasion at national level. The other professor did agree to that. He referred to the anti-abuse provisions in our legislation. However, I would like the two professors to confirm clearly that it is not because a ruling is concluded in Luxembourg with Belgian companies, that therefore these arrangements would be correct under Belgian tax law. Our Minister for Finance also spoke about tax international tax avoidance. I want to get rid of that suggestion. I want to hear that all this is okay. So I would have liked to have had a clear response on that. I know you cannot anticipate the investigation, but I would have liked to have had a reaction to the principle as such. A second point concerns the legislation on transfer pricing and the checks to be carried out on it. I feel that we are doing our best, but that we could do even more. I think we could do some business. I would like to hear your opinion on this. I think the cell that's doing transfer pricing should be reinforced. What is your opinion on a documentation obligation in the context of transfer pricing? I think the importance of documentation has increased in recent years. In a number of countries, companies are already obliged today to underpin and document their transfer pricing annually. In other countries, including Belgium, that obligation does not exist today. I think it would be a good thing if this were the case. What's your opinion on that? In Germany there is a longer investigation and attack period than with us. We have three-year deadlines. For such investigations, which are often international, this is often too short-term. In Germany, this deadline has been extended to 10 years. Shouldn't that also be extended in our country to investigate those international constructions? One final question is about the caiman tax. In the initial comments on LuxLeaks, this was highlighted as part of the solution to this problem. We doubted that at the time. Over the last few days, we have still not had a clear understanding of the direction the new government is going to take with this caiman tax and what exactly is in it. However, I would like to ask you, on the basis of how the Cayman tax has always been proposed in the past, whether that is an element that can indeed mean something in LuxLeaks' file or whether it means very little in the context of LuxLeaks.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u19	Mr President, I would like to put a question to both professors for clarification. Firstly, from what I hear about the aggressive tax structures and rulings that have been made in Luxembourg, it is not quite clear to me where exactly the border between tax evasion and tax avoidance is located. Do the double taxation treaties allow it to be sufficient to have a mailbox address abroad to have no taxable basis in Belgium? Did I misunderstand this or should there be talk of tax evasion rather than tax avoidance when, in reality, value is created in Belgium, for example, when staff are mainly employed in Belgium? What's the deal with that, exactly? Can we apply our own rules in such a case, or are there problems with our own regulations? Secondly, I have not heard the advantages and disadvantages of the CFC regulation introduced by certain countries. Is this possible for Belgium, or does it have so many disadvantages that we have to conclude that CFC is not suitable? Could you point that out for me, please? Some countries have introduced this. Why did they do that? What are the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u20	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the two professors very much for their explanation. I think we all agree that disloyal tax competition cannot be achieved. At European level, we can talk about fiscal competition, but we must not get bogged down in disloyal tax competition. In this context, Mr Maus, you say that tax competition must not be the only means of attracting companies or investments to our country. I agree with this in part, because we must also seek to obtain investment in our country through other means, such as good mobility. This morning you yourself cited the example of education, which enables us to bring companies in. Another problem in our country, I believe, is the high tax burden. In de LuxLeaks deal is er sprake van deloyale fiscale competitorie. With regard to the rulings, the question arises as to whether they are legal or not. According to Luxembourg law, the ruling concluded in Luxembourg is legal. I understand Mr Vanvelthoven when he asks when it is about evasion and when it is about evasion. I also agree with what Mrs Van Cauter said. Well, if we can see that the ruling was concluded with a company that is purely a postal bus company, when there is no economic activity in Luxembourg, then I think we can conclude that it is circumvention rather than circumvention. In this respect, I have a specific question for the professors. Do you have any idea what resources the Belgian tax authority has to determine whether or not it is merely a postal bus company? In my view, the rulings provide legal certainty for companies and taxpayers. However, I cannot agree to these rulings being secret; they must be public. I have a number of comments to make on this. The law states that rulings should be published in Belgium, which may be anonymised. In your intervention, I got the feeling that you assumed that some rulings would not be published. Can you confirm that? In that case, do we, as Belgians, not pass the law? Another point I would like to make here is the PPP construction that Professor Philippe mentioned. If I am well informed, the Belgian ruling also accepts such constructions. As a result, we do not always have to look at the others, but also at ourselves. Is that right or not? Mr Maus proposed establishing European rulings, whereas Mr Philippe suggested that the data on tax rulings should be made public and exchanged with the other Member States. If a company wants to conclude a ruling, it must of course be able to do so as soon as possible. A company or a taxpayer must be given legal certainty as soon as possible about the steps it intends to take. Do you propose that several Member States conclude a ruling together? How do you see that? I have a specific question for Professor Maus. In your approach to tax avoidance, you say that Belgium could propose a tax cliquet system, with a minimum and possibly maximum tax burden. You say very specifically, however, that this should apply by type of income. The explanation you have just given was about tax reform rather than the specific problem with LuxLeaks. If you propose that minimum and maximum tax burden per type of income, would you rather think of a system such as in the Netherlands, where you will work with a box system? There is no longer a globalisation of income, but a box of real estate income, a box of moving income, a box of professional income and, in the Dutch model, also a box of significant importance. Do you think in that direction sooner? This is how I asked my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u21	Mr President, Professors, I have been working on the issue of rulings for several years. We have noticed that since the financial crisis a lot of savings have been imposed on people, but that after things like the offshore leaks, the HSBC list, LuxLeaks and recently BelgoLeaks with AB InBev, a scenario of public indignation always follows with a number of promises to do something and that it is demoralising afterwards. I am very pleased that you are both here today to dovetail with us and give us a state of affairs. The essential question is whether the benefits of the rulings for multinationals still outweigh the costs for society, not only the Belgian, but the whole of Europe and the whole world by enlargement. When we look at the effects of rulings on developing countries, they are often disastrous for the other countries. What are the benefits of fiscal competition being organized, in fact, for our country and for other countries around us? The debate was held here on the difference between tax avoidance and actual tax fraud. That difference, led by Herman Van Rompuy, Europe has called for the debate on this grey area of avoidance, which, through aggressive branch planning, is really turning Member States against each other and which is on the brink of legality, has long crossed the line of ethics. We know that the sum of all those rulings, all those structures that are being set up, costs every European citizen EUR 2 000. I would like to repeat the question of transparency. How do we organise transparency in our own countries and how do we organise transparency at European level? Is the way to organise transparency the caiman tax, which I see above all as a means to gain more insight into fraudulent mechanisms abroad and tax havens? Is this tax an answer to this problem? I have my own opinion on this, of course, but I would like to hear your views on this matter. To what extent does this increase transparency? Secondly, there are its own rulings. I started with a reference to things that have passed in the past. One of the issues that I raised in Parliament in 2010 is Total's ruling, and I would like to bring it back to you. Total's ruling, approved by our own Prior Decision Service, was a secret ruling and was therefore not published by the Prior Decision Service. Those who have done their homework and who were already in this Parliament already know that there are no effective publication of different rulings, such as those for the fourth largest oil company in the world, which is closing taxes to Bermuda. Then nothing was done with that question. I hope this happens today. Why was that problematic? Not only because this was not published, but because Total's ruling resulted in the modification of a circular letter relating to payments to tax havens. Companies are obliged to declare their payments to tax havens, but due to Total's secret ruling it was decided that the circular had to be changed so that the deal with Total was not compromised. The situation is thus that we are debating LuxLeaks today, while Belgium has concluded rulings with several large multinationals and has even used rulings to ease legislation, which in principle serves to tackle tax havens, in the light of those rulings. To put the "I" on the line, what is this debate about? The question is not only whether these rulings should become more transparent, I think so, but the question is also what effect these rulings have on legislation, which we now adopt in this gremium with the aim of addressing the whole situation in tax havens. It is, of course, entirely perfide when one sees in the example of AB InBev that the families, which are the largest shareholders in Luxembourg, are not only involved in LuxLeaks but that the company itself is involved in BelgoLeaks. This raises questions for the citizens. That is not only an ethical question, but also a tax question. To what extent is it still fair and above all not discriminatory to apply such different tax rules to certain categories of people? Mr Maus referred to SMEs. It's not just about companies, it's about families. Then my question is to what extent it is also about tax returns by individuals in these schemes. I am particularly interested in this aspect, which is a little underexplored in this debate. So I am not just asking for transparency about which rulings are concluded and what impact they have on our legislation. I also want to know if there are any of those rulings in addition to Total's secret ruling on the circular? If there are rulings that are not published and have implications for the legislation, then it will be very difficult for Parliament to carry out another audit task and to assess how effective the legislation we are adopting here is to tackle tax havens, for example. So I do not agree with fellow Members who are in favour of transparency, but who are anonymised. There is a proposal to organise hearings, and I would very much like that, as in the United Kingdom, with Starbucks and other companies, but we need to know with which companies there have been rulings. Who else are we gonna invite? I do not see why we are, either debating the simplification of our tax system, which is also about the tax shift bringing down the burden on labour to income elsewhere, or a debate on much more transparent rulings as such and a ban on secret rulings, which unfortunately have been there and which even have an effect on our legislation. So the debate on transparency is not as simple as some people have put it here. I would like to hear from both professors to what extent they see the country-by-country reporting of the income, staff, assets and the moving good of companies as an opportunity to increase transparency. I am not under any illusions: there is always a game of majority and opposition. However, if you get a country-by-country report of the profits, turnover and assets made per company, then it is much better, as a Member of Parliament and as a citizen, to check whether the taxes paid are proportionate to the activity. That's what it was about in the debate with Starbucks. In fact, the hearing in the United Kingdom gave rise to the absurd situation in which Starbucks was confronted with the fact that the loss was made in the country, at which the company declared to stay out of love for the country. That was, of course, very ludicrous at the time, knowing what the practice of transfer pricing and transfer pricing is. What is your view on country-by-country reporting? What is your view on, for example, an impact analysis of one's own rulings? Suppose we want to publish all the rulings. Would that be an interesting technique if we added an impact analysis on inequality in relation to other SMEs and other countries and the impact on developing countries, for example? What's your opinion on that? Furthermore, in addition to the measures of impact assessment and country-by-country reporting, would it be a good idea, in your view, to provide Parliament with the results of such monitoring of companies enjoying such favourable rulings on an annual basis, so that it can be monitored in a transparent way and citizens and academics can be easily informed about the impact of such tax favor regimes?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u22	Mr President, I only wanted to obtain clarification on my colleague Laaouej's question on the valuation of assets in a Luxembourg company. I wanted to know whether, as is often the case in Belgium, a reviewer intervened to validate the value of the assets.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u23	I agree with Mr Vanvelthoven's question. The LuxLeaks come in the press, which gives rise to a debate, and we invite you to the House to see more clearly. Then one gets the simplistic answer that the caiman tax is coming. What does that have to do with anything? That's what I'd like to hear from you. We cannot stand up to a caiman tax in two or three months that does not touch the ground of the matter. We want to know honestly how you feel about this: what legal arrangements would you like to deal with? We, as Members of Parliament, are not yet fully aware of the content of this caiman tax. What are the structures that can be dealt with that cannot be dealt with now? Does that have anything to do with the LuxLeaks that you have explained today's complexity? On the European dimension of the matter, you say that in the Netherlands and Ireland there are also many favor regimes on which people are proud and with which investments are attracted. We also have the notional interest. Each country tries to draw the sheet to it. Is it not hypocritical that we are now outraged by what is happening in Luxembourg, when we see this movement in different European countries? You have made a number of suggestions, including the examination of favor regimes in function of prohibited state aid. In this context, it is often considered, but this should be done more in the context of deloyal competition. However, it should also be possible to look at it in the context of fiscal fairness. Why are we talking about this? In Belgium, we have a policy of surrendering income categories which are particularly moderate, while at the other end there are all kinds of movements that no one seems to have control of. We are going to legislate here, but to disrespect it: if one bites, one has to have meat. If Parliament were to bite legislation, we would have to see that this would also lead to results. I am not a specialist in tax law at all, but from what the professors have said, it will be very difficult, as legislator, to get a grip on the regime of a SOPARFI. As Mrs Veerle Wouters has also pointed out with regard to that tax cliquet system and minimum and maximum tax burden, what is this ultimately about by type of income? Does that make any impression on those multinationals that shop internationally with tax experts? How are we going to get hold of that with the cliquet system? Following the Coucke affair, you wrote in an article that Belgium is a tax oasis and you advocate a tax reform committee and a tax shift. I welcome that, but you also say that we should be able to evaluate these tax favor regimes before we can say that it is a real tax reform that is working and producing results. I am not a member of this committee, but I agree with Mrs Almaci. Every six months or every other year, some file pops up, causing a lot of indignation and then weakens. A number of major tax experts give their views on this and a number of lawyers make a lot of money by setting up these structures. Gentlemen, professors, thank you for developing a number of schedules that allow the committee to continue its work. I think that this committee should take this into account in the coming months. A lot of reservations and questions have been raised. I would like you to give your opinion on this and that we can draw conclusions from the evaluation you are making of the LuxLeaks dossier and define a method of working. What can the federal Parliament do to cut into these kinds of structures and go far beyond the moral indignation that is necessary but which is not ultimately our task?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u24	A lot of questions have been put to both of us. I'll try to compress it. I start with the sense or nonsense of the caiman tax, as an instrument to tackle aggressive tax avoidance or tax evasion. I don't have much faith in that. We need to make a clear distinction when people or companies take the international tour to set up tax avoidance structures. There are two types of grosso mode: there are people who fraud and there are people or companies who do not fraud. When we speak purely about companies, most of the structures set up are perfectly legal. There is nothing wrong with the structures themselves. This is also the reason why rulings are often delivered abroad. The question is how to deal with these structures. That's another story. These include matters such as valuation and transfer pricing, in which people often exaggerate heavily. It is then up to the Belgian tax authorities to check these matters. Of course he must also be equipped to do so and then a problem always pops up. I am now speaking as a lawyer and I refer to the defence strategy which we can very easily put forward when questions are asked. If Belgian tax authorities have problems with international structures for which there is a foreign ruling, then they have a serious problem. If the Belgian tax authorities question that ruling, then they actually want to tax and then they get double taxation. This brings us to the double taxation treaties, which provide that double taxation is not allowed. If there is any danger of double taxation, then it is simple: then we draw the card of mutual agreement. There is a separate article in our double taxation treaties, which stipulates that we can apply for a mutual agreement procedure if there is a double taxation. The Belgian tax authorities will then have to negotiate with the Luxembourg tax authorities a specific dossier to determine the situation. For a taxpayer, this situation is very annoying, because it seeks legal certainty. On the other hand, the taxpayer is in a seat. In such a case, the Belgian tax authorities must prove that there is fraud or that the cases were not played correctly. Do you think that the Luxembourg tax administration will easily fold into such a story and will admit that the ruling it has delivered is kaduuk? That's not so obvious. That's the problem we're gonna have. It is a very serious strategic problem. Is the caiman tax the solution? No, not at all! It's even pointless. With the caiman tax one wants to attack structures that are not actually correct. I can give you a simple example. A private individual sets up and invests in a company on British Virgin Islands. He invests that capital, and that's how that capital raises pennies. Next, these revenues will not be taxed anywhere. Is that a problem for the Belgian tax authorities? No, because at that moment we are dealing with a transparent structure. A company on the Virgin Islands will have no annual accounts, no reporting obligations and no accounting. That's tax simulation. The Belgian tax authorities can simply think away from this structure and tax the income of the people behind it. There is no need for a cayman tax, because that is already perfectly possible. This seems to me to be a measure for nothing. Everything stands or falls of course with information gathering and the ability to obtain information. There is now the obligation to report legal constructions. That allows the tax authorities to check and if things are not played correctly, the simulation theory can be applied. If someone has set up a legal entity abroad, let us take Luxembourg as an example and put a capital there, then there will be no step forward with that caiman tax. After all, these structures and also the reporting obligations are perfectly okay. One can't see through that. A viewing tax is pointless at that time. I come to the discussions between Member States and the delivery of rulings. This, of course, raises problems, but I believe that this can be solved by tackling deloyalty tax competition at European level. Although I am absolutely not a politician, I sometimes ask myself the political question about the feasibility of certain proposals. In my opinion, the system of taxation is very difficult at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u25	What exactly do you mean by that tax cliquet system?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u26	Mr President, I shall come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u27	I just want to know what it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u28	I will come back to the deloyal tax competition. I also follow the international press around LuxLeaks. Even Juncker notes that Europe is radically opposed to deloyal tax competition. There is therefore a political basis for adapting European legislation and the European Treaty in this way and for registering the concept of "deloyal fiscal competition' as a fundamental principle for the functioning of the European Union. That should be possible. I would like to return to Mrs Wouters' question. When I talk about a ruling on deloyal tax competition, I mean a ruling for the Member States themselves and not for those companies that want to use a profit regime. I am talking about a ruling for those Member States that want to introduce a favour regime. They must first be given the approval of the European Commission, which finds that the favour regime is not deloyal fiscal competition. Such a measure follows the example of our state aid story. I have also noted Mr Gilkinet's question on the fair tax story. The following surprises me with all our multinationals. I looked at the website from two multinationals, AB InBev and Belgacom. They are, of course, talking about sustainable entrepreneurship. They make mission statements about the responsibility of the company. However, there is no mention of the tax story. The question must therefore be asked as to whether what they envisage is consistent with the content of the tax structures that are being set up. However, that is not a legal story. That's like the fair trade label for companies that are truly sustainable. Also with the fair tax-story it would be nice, should companies also record that story as a mission statement and thus want to play the game. As regards transparency and parliamentary control of rulings, there is currently no legislation at Belgian level regarding the publication of rulings by the ruling committee. I have been told by people from the ruling committee itself that it is intended that all rulings, albeit anonymously, should be published. However, the taxpayer may ask not to publish a ruling. His or her question is also respected. That is pure use, without regulation. However, I understand from a parliamentary point of view that there will be questions about that, because then there will be no parliamentary control. After all, with the annual reports of the ruling committee we do not jump very far in the field of control of what is happening on the field. Mr President, what do I mean by the cliquet system? I am merely thinking about the way in which we are playing the game on the VAT side. In this respect, there is a European directive, which provides the framework for the European VAT system and provides for minimum rates of taxation to be respected. I am merely asking myself whether we can also do something like this for income tax and corporate tax. Should we not also lay down minimum taxation for this purpose? The Belgian corporate tax rate is 33.99 % and in Ireland it is 12%. I always give my students the next exercise in the field of taxation. At a profit of EUR 1 million, relocation in the area of taxation can already generate tax savings for shareholders of between EUR 200 000 and EUR 250 000. An IT company located in Belgium, making a profit of 1 million euros, but finding a corporation tax of 33.99 % too high, will set up a subsidiary in Ireland and relocate with the activity, and the Belgian company will be made a holding company. In this way, thanks to the operation of the Parent-Subsidiary Directive, an amount of between EUR 250 000 and EUR 300 000 in taxes can be saved at EUR 1 million. The question arises as to whether we can and should accept this. In general, I see this happening at Belgian level. We reject production and we create structures of Belgian holding companies that save taxes in this way. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Our country has to ensure that we create jobs here, and we have to keep production in Belgium to do so, but we will have to do so in a different way. If we allow, especially at European level, that other countries can continue the race to the bottom, that problem will continue to exist. That is why I propose to work with minimum rates, although I fear that this will be very difficult to implement at European level. These rates may vary according to the type of income. We can think of the Dutch box system, where we also see that story pop up. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u29	Mr President, first of all, I would like to answer the rather technical questions relating to the anti-abuse measures on transfer pricing provided for in the Income Tax Code. If I have noted correctly, the first question concerns how Article 26 of the CIR should be applied in the case of the transfer of intangible assets from a Belgian company to a related Luxembourg company. In my view, if a Belgian company transfers goodwill, know-how, intangible assets to a Luxembourg company, which must be reinstated in its taxable base, it is not the profits, but the value of the intangible assets transferred. Another question relates to the possible application of Article 344(2). This is another anti-abuse measure which, as has been rightly said, enables the tax authorities to make the transfer of assets which generate taxable income to companies which are subject to a very advantageous tax system unopposed. In principle, Article 344(2) does not apply where a Belgian company transfers intangible assets to a Luxembourg company fully subject to tax in Luxembourg, which is generally the case. The question is whether the above article cannot apply where a Luxembourg company which acquires securities or intangible assets benefits from a tax ruling in Luxembourg. In such cases, can the article be invoked? This is a legitimate question, to which I have devoted some developments in my book. In my view, in some cases, this provision could perhaps be applied. I would now like to say a word about Cayman tax. Is this tax effective in combating the use of certain tax structures in Luxembourg? I would like to say two things that seem important to me. I fully support what Professor Maus has said. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Cayman tax applies only to Belgian natural persons who hold structures abroad which are poorly taxed. This is, for example, the case of Mr Dupont, a Belgian resident who owns a company in the BVI. The Cayman tax makes it possible to reinstate, in the taxable benefit of Mr. Dupont, the income collected by the company from the BVIs. This is the objective pursued by Cayman tax. This tax is part of the extension of the declaratory obligation of foreign heritage structures introduced by the Act of 30 July 2013. Since 30 July 2013, Belgian natural persons must declare in their declaration to the tax of natural persons that they have low taxed structures abroad, and in particular a company with BVIs. This is important, but it does not apply to companies. If a Belgian company holds a company abroad that is taxed poorly, the reporting obligation does not apply, nor does Cayman tax apply. It is important to clarify this. I would like to say a final word about this transparency tax, the Cayman tax. It applies to a single Luxembourg structure, the SPF, the family wealth management company. If a Belgian natural person holds a FPS in Luxembourg, and assuming that Cayman tax is born, the Belgian natural person will be taxed on the financial income that is collected by the FPS.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u30	What does SPF mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u31	Family Heritage Management Corporation. The SPF is a Luxembourg structure listed in the Royal Decree of 19 March 2014 as one of the structures that must be declared to the tax of natural persons in the tax declaration. This reporting obligation applies to the SPF but not to SOPARFI, i.e. the Luxembourg company which is fully subject to tax in Luxembourg. In most structures, many SOPARFIs are used. My conclusion is as follows. This Cayman tax is not effective for two reasons. First, it applies only to natural persons. It is therefore the Belgian natural persons who are affected by this measure and not the Belgian companies that hold companies abroad. Secondly, the list includes only the SPF, which is a defiant vehicle in Luxembourg, but not the famous SOPARFI, which is a company fully subject to tax. For these two reasons, in my opinion, the Cayman tax is not effective in fighting these montages unveiled by LuxLeaks. On the other hand, what is effective in combating the use of Luxembourg structures or structures established in other countries with advantageous taxation is the anti-abuse measures provided for in the Income Tax Codes. I referred to the general anti-abuse measure, Article 344(1), the scope of which was greatly expanded by the Act of 29 March 2012. In addition, there are specific anti-abuse measures, such as Article 26, which Mr Laaouej mentioned, which allows Belgian companies to re-enter the taxable base of benefits which they transfer to a related company. It is true that our fiscal arsenal does not include CFC measures. On the other hand, Article 344(2) of the CIR is, in many respects, similar to the CFC measures introduced in other states, such as Germany or the United States. What is the difference between tax avoidance and tax evasion? There is indeed a fine boundary between both concepts. Let me give you an example. Let us assume that a Belgian company holds a holding company. If both the general meeting and the board of directors are held in Luxembourg and the important decisions are taken in Luxembourg, then I do not think there is any tax evasion or tax fraud. The Luxembourg holding company then has substance. I think it is enough for a holding company to take the most important decisions in Luxembourg. On the other hand, if a Belgian company has a transport company in Luxembourg and if it appears that the transport company in Luxembourg has only an address but no staff or economic activity, then I think that the risk of tax fraud is greater. One must therefore make a difference between a holding company and a transport activity. A transport activity requires more substance than an ordinary holding activity. We've talked a lot about the publicity of the rulings. As has been said, this whole LuxLeaks case would not have come to light if these trials in Luxembourg were published. This is expected to change as of 1 January 2015 but, until now, in Luxembourg, these rulings were not published. No publicity was given for these confidential agreements. Hence the telluric tremor caused by the LuxLeaks case. In Belgium, the rulings are published anonymously, and it would also appear that some rulings are not published. Personally, I am in favour of a publication of the rulings but in an anonymised way to respect the confidentiality of the ruling. A company is a private person who is also entitled to confidentiality. On the other hand, I am a fervent supporter of the complete publication of all the rules. I find it abnormal that some rulings are not published when they are anonymised. That's my point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u32	Mr President, I had a question to ask the two speakers about legality from the point of view of the criminal qualifications that exist in Belgium, in particular false, false tax, false intellectual. For them, in this kind of assembly, should we start from the assumption that everything was perfectly legal or could there be under certain conditions elements of forgery that would then lead to a criminal qualification with obviously criminal consequences and not only administrative tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u33	In the majority of cases, the structures set up are fine, but the problem is how they are handled. My colleague has already said it. If one works with a foreign company, that foreign company must also be run abroad. If one makes it appear to the tax authorities that they hold boards abroad, that there are shareholders' meetings abroad, when that is not the case, then one has falsehood, then there is purely a criminal qualification. So there is a story in which people deceptively make it appear to the Belgian tax authorities that it is a foreign company, whereas it is actually a Belgian company, and that is, of course, a criminal problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u34	I agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u35	Mr President, I have another question on the same point. I have heard you explain, on the one hand, that a holding company must actually have the decision-making centre located abroad. On the other hand, there is also an operating company with a seat abroad. Who's judging this? It's not legally defined exactly what a decision-making center is. I assume that in the case law there are general meetings and boards of directors. This is not legally regulated and has actually been established in the case-law. Could it serve legal certainty, should this be regulated by law? Is it also possible to regulate this legally? Can certain conditions be defined? I've heard you both say that that line is hard to draw. How does one tranche in case of doubt? Will it still be taxed in the country of origin?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u36	It is perfectly possible to lay down a number of legal conditions in this area. I believe, for example, that there should be at least staff in the area of employment. One can impose this as a condition. I would like to point out once again that this is an international problem which, in my view, makes no sense to impose purely Belgian substance conditions if we are much more flexible abroad. At that point, there will only be a shift from one country to another. Such matters must be dealt with in an international context. In my view, however, it must be absolutely possible to impose substance conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u37	Only the Netherlands has done this so far?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u38	This concerns substantive conditions in the internal legislation for co-financing companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u39	There is also the notion of a false balance sheet which, in my opinion, can be mobilised in the case before us here. When can we get a false balance sheet? From the moment a transfer of ownership of an asset from one company to another is not accompanied by a genuine transfer. This is a paper transfer, but the asset continues to be exploited from the company where it was originally located but from which it was relocated to another country. First element of false balance sheet. The second element of a false balance sheet, which is criminally punishable, is also to assess in a misleading way, without any real element of objectivation, an asset to give it a value, which will allow in certain installations to constitute an annual amortization base allowing to sponge profits. In this second case, the difficulty is the location, the criterion of criminal attachment. Where's the fake? Is it subject to Luxembourg criminal jurisdiction or Belgian criminal jurisdiction? There is a conflict of territoriality. In this regard, I see that there is a difficulty. At the very least, can this notion of false balance sheet be used in the LuxLeaks by a judicial service, possibly at the initiative of the tax administration?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u40	To recall the context, some Luxembourg companies which have been transferred intangible assets by Belgian companies have benefited from a ruling allowing them to benefit from an exemption of a percentage of their profits because they are considered to be the result of a hidden contribution made by the shareholder, in this case a transfer of intangible assets. In my opinion, there is no false record in this kind of situation. The transfer of goodwill is recorded not in the annual accounts but in the purely fiscal balance sheet. It is therefore a purely fiscal concept. A similar concept is known in Belgium. It's the excess profit rulings. It is considered that the Luxembourg company has been granted a "gift", an intangible asset, of its shareholder, the know-how, the expertise given to it on a silver platter. This is what actually allows him to benefit from a tax exemption. This intangible asset, I repeat, is not recorded in the annual accounts, but in a tax balance sheet. In my opinion, to answer your question, these are not false balances.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u41	That's why I'm asking about the reviewers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u42	This is a very good question: has this intangible asset been valued? In my view, the Luxembourg tax authorities would only rule out hidden contributions if an evaluation report was provided to it and attests to the extent of this asset. Indeed, to be able to amortize it, it had to be valued. Although I have not looked at all of these tricks, I am convinced that the Luxembourg tax authorities have granted a ruling in terms of hidden contributions only on the basis of an evaluation report drawn up by an independent expert.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u43	It is therefore all the more difficult to prove that there has been fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u44	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u45	With all due respect for the professionals of the number, for example the corporate reviewers, I recall that the judicial history – not so far away – has shown us that, sometimes, despite their intervention, some fraudulent circuits have not only been updated, but above all could lead to convictions. Mr President, this exchange is very theoretical. That doesn't mean he'd be muddy. However, in such complex cases, elements of fact play a decisive role. Of course, we have to be careful in the analyses. However, if it appears that the valuations of these hidden assets are not based on anything concrete, or even disproportionate to reality – by participating in an intention to evade its tax obligations – can the notion of false balance sheet not be mobilised?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u46	You touched a small point, in particular the CFC regulation and the anti-abuse clause. If I'm right, there's an important distinction between the two. In the case of the anti-abuse clause, it must be proved that there is only a tax purpose to apply a particular tax arrangement. The CFC legislation assumes tout court that the added value is created in the country of the parent company. There is an essential distinction between the two. What would the pitfalls be when adopting a CFC regulation? Are there any disadvantages to that? In some of the constructions that concern us, the country of the parent company is Belgium, but what could be the disadvantages?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u47	As I have already mentioned, there is no CFC scheme in Belgium, unlike Germany where there is a knowledge of the Hinzurechnungsbesteuerung, or the subpart-F regulation in the United States. The CFC scheme does not exist in the current tax legislation. It exists in other countries, but I would stress that it is very complicated and complex. I know colleagues in Germany and the United States who are constantly working on this very complex CFC scheme. However, there is a kind of CFC scheme in Belgium, in particular Article 344 (2) of the WIB. This is an anti-abuse clause similar to a CFC scheme: if a Belgian company has a subsidiary abroad subject to an advantageous tax regime, the objective of that CFC scheme would be to tax the Belgian parent company on the profits of the subsidiary subject to a favourable tax system. That is the objective of the CFC schemes. In Belgium, Article 344 (2) allows the Belgian tax authority to add the income of assets transferred to a foreign company subject to a more favourable tax system to the taxable basis of the Belgian company. This is a type of CFC scheme. It may not be quite the same, but there is a kind of CFC scheme in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u48	Mr President, I think that the distinction should be made in the current dossiers. Indeed, the Minister of Finance informed us that the ISI had been seized of the files revealed by the LuxLeaks. As a result, an investigation is under way and legal means will be used or not. Of course, we are not going to judge this, but it would be interesting, in a few months' time, to ask the minister to report to us on the results of this investigation in order to assess the elements of law that we will have to modify in Belgium to ensure that these practices that we denounce can no longer take place. The question is how the Finance Committee can make progress in this area. Each group has concrete proposals to submit. Is it a collective decision to make this matter a priority? Let us follow up on this, with the understanding that – this is a lesson we need to learn from the hearings – that the famous Cayman tax is not the tool to answer this type of case. That was told to us by the Minister of Finance in plenary and by the Prime Minister. De facto, it is not the right vehicle to combat this type of practice. For me, we need to make sure we have the right tools to avoid it tomorrow. Can we provide for either further hearings or legislative work on the basis of the texts tabled?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u49	It has been suggested that we should hear AB InBev, following the British example, in this committee to learn how they justify their tax policy in this matter. The agenda of this committee is rather intense over the next few weeks, but I would like to call for them to be heard in a somewhat calmer period. We cannot, of course, fish companies, but let us see how they see it as research. If we can hear a number of cases, this could be particularly useful for the development of a Belgian CFC scheme or similar measure. You're right to say that the meat and teeth have to match.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u50	Mr President, the experts have clarified this. There are two things that have been cleared up, at least as far as I am concerned. First of all, the caiman tax. I have just looked at what our Minister of Finance has said about this. The day the business was leaked, Minister of Finance Johan Van Overtveldt promised that the secret tax deals of Belgian companies and wealthy families with the Luxembourg tax administration would not just pass by. I quote him: "It is for this kind of unethical construction that we introduce the caiman tax." I believe that this has been corrected by the tax experts. Mr President, it does point out that in such a serious matter that affects many people, our Minister of Finance does not know what he is talking about. That worries me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u51	We can do that in committee later... now we have the hearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u52	That's what worries me. I'd still like to draw my conclusions. Secondly, as I read out, the Minister spoke about unethical constructions. Then he talked about international tax avoidance. I believe that it has been made clear that we should not talk about this anymore, but that we should talk about international constructions which may constitute tax avoidance but which, as I have heard from the experts, may well be fraudulent constructions. This must be examined in accordance with Belgian law. The investigation must establish whether this involves fraud or whether it is simply a breach of Belgian tax law. In this respect too, however, it is far too premature for our Finance Minister to talk about international circumvention structures. After all, that is not certain. Thirdly, on the basis of the recommendations put forward, it is perhaps wise to discuss them further with this committee. We should, if possible, be able to come up with as broad a recommendation as possible for our new federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u53	Mr President, I would like to thank the speakers. We have had the debate on the Cayman tax. When the Minister came out with this, we immediately informed him that this is not an answer to the problem. That was confirmed today. The question then is how we will provide an answer to the problem. This comes and goes. In 2010, we raised the issue of Total, which, by the way, goes very far. We know that legislation has been influenced in the wrong direction by circular letters. We know that there is no such transparency today and that the annual reports of the Prior Decisions Service do not provide a satisfactory answer. First of all, I want to ensure that there is transparency in the place where the legislation is amended. That is the minimum that Parliament should know. Given the challenge and the cost, not only social, moral, but actually per European citizen, calculated by Europe, we also want to talk about the further approach to the problem. The political debate on the Cayman tax has thus taken place. My question then is how this will be followed up. I am asking for hearings, to find out more about how and why tax planning with companies. The question then is which companies we invite. Apart from the debate on the rulings, we could, for example, ask two multinationals and two SMEs to give more explanation. Whether they will do so is another question. The question is how we continue to follow up on what we have learned today. After seven years in Parliament and many times after raising these issues, with LuxLeaks and BelgoLeaks, I would like this time to land with clear progress and no backwardness, as it was after the debate with Total at the time, and the letter remained inadequate. You must excuse me for continuing to stress this point. There is no point in asking parliamentary questions and organising hearings with experts over and over again if no concrete action is taken on this input. I also appeal to my fellow Members of the majority to take their parliamentary mandate seriously and to get to work on the answers we have received. We may also be able to provide a cooperative response to the problem without the Minister, after which we can call on the Minister to do so. After all, it has been clear for a long time that a caiman tax does not provide an answer to the problem. Perhaps we should encourage him with some very concrete proposals. Our proposal on Controlled Foreign Capital has been in Parliament for three years. Maybe the majority can take a look at that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u54	We thank the two professors for their presentations, which were very interesting. You have developed a number of points on which our committee will look. After hearing you, however, I am not very optimistic. We are facing a very international problem, very complex, different for every company, company, natural person. There are multiple tax structures. You are experts in this field, which we are not. We must therefore be very careful in legislating on this matter. We must be realistic. It is now early December and it will be difficult to find a gap in our overcrowded agenda. A number of recommendations have been made. The committee will have to list it in January. A number of issues need to be dealt with at European level. We need to look at this in detail and determine what initiatives the federal Parliament can take, what initiatives it can take. There must be no indignation in the air and the next week we shall proceed to the order of the day. We now have two excellent advisers. I believe that we will continue to be able to appeal to you and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u55	Mr President, if I am not mistaken, we agreed that the present session would be a first hearing and that we would continue the hearings in January 2015. After all, there are other actors I would like to hear. There are undoubtedly a number of people in the administration who need to be heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u56	We should look at this within the scope of our work. You can make suggestions. We hope to have more time in January 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u57	Mr President, that was the agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u58	It is also important what has been said here about the caiman tax. This tax will be introduced in the spring of 2015. Parliament must therefore be armed to express its opinion on this matter. There is a parliamentary committee to discuss such matters. Mrs Almaci, every Member is well-intentioned. You note that members of the majority are equally motivated than members of the opposition to make proper arrangements in this area. Opposition is a temporary thing, after all. Tomorrow a party is part of the majority; today it belongs to the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u59	Mr President, is that an invitation?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-26-54-commissie-ic027x.u60	I will not see you become Minister for Fiscal Fraud anymore, but none of that is excluded, nor is it excluded that CD&V will then be in opposition. A majority is a very temporary framework, a BTK, which can change completely in a few months' time. Gentlemen, professors, in conclusion, I would like to thank you for coming.
