ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u1	The Chamber meets today pursuant to the Royal Decree of 25 April 2014 convening the new federal legislative chambers on 19 June 2014. The House is meeting today under the Royal Order of April 25, 2014, calling for the new Federal Legislative Houses on June 19, 2014. I declare the extraordinary session 2014 open. I declare open the special session 2014. The provisional Bureau shall be composed of the outgoing President of the Chamber, who shall chair it, and of the two youngest members of the Chamber who shall assist the President (Rgt. 1). Mrs Yoleen Van Camp is sitting on my right. On my left, Mrs. Nawal Ben Hamou is in session. The Provisional Bureau is composed of the President of the outgoing Chamber, who presides, and the youngest members who assist the President (Art. 1. To my right, Mrs. Yoleen Van Camp, to my left, Mrs. Nawal Ben Hamou. Apologized: Mr Laurent Devin. Apologised: Mr. Laurent Devin.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u2	The files relating to the parliamentary elections of 25 May 2014 were transmitted to the Chamber of Representatives by the presidents of the electoral headquarters in accordance with Articles 169 and 177 of the Election Code. Pursuant to articles 169 and 177 of the Electoral Code, the House of Representatives was seized by the presidents of the main electoral district offices with regard to the parliamentary elections of 25 May 2014. These files shall be sent to the six committees to be set up in accordance with Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure to examine credentials. These files will be referred to the six commissions which, in accordance with rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be formed to verify the credentials. I propose to the Chamber that the minutes of the parliamentary elections be distributed among the credentials committees as follows: I propose that the Chamber allocate the minutes of the elections to the Credentials Committees as follows:
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u3	By letter dated 16 June 2014, Ms Marijke Dillen forsook the exercise of her mandate as a representative of the people. By letter of 16 June 2014, Ms Marijke Dillen renounces the exercise of her mandate as a Member of Parliament. This letter shall be sent to the 2nd Committee for Verification of Credentials. This letter is referred to the 2nd Credentials Committee. I give the floor to Mrs Van Camp to give a lecture on the complaints made in connection with the elections. I give the floor to Mrs Van Camp to read out the complaints that have been received about the elections. After reading each complaint, the chairman shall inform the committee referred to. After reading each complaint, the chairman shall indicate to which committee it is referred.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u4	On 4 and 18 June 2014, Mr Philippe Chansay Wilmotte and Mr Damien Sougnez (Valeurs libérales citoyennes) asked for the annulment of the entire election of the Chamber of Representatives. By claims dated 4 and 18 June 2014, Messrs. Philippe Chansay Wilmotte and Damien Sougnez (Citizen Liberal Values) ask for the whole election of the House of Representatives to be cancelled. By letter of 4 June 2014, Ms Marie-Luce asked Lovinfosse (Belgian Union of Union belge (B.U.B.)) to annul all the elections to the Chamber of Representatives and call for the organisation of new elections with a manual vote and enhanced independent control. By complaint of 4 June 2014, Ms Marie-Luce Lovinfosse (Belgische Unie – Belgian Union (B.U.B.)) calls for the annulment of the whole election of the House of Representatives and calls for the holding of new elections with a manual vote and increased independent scrutiny. On 5 June 2014, Ms Michèle Demoulin (Valeurs libérales citoyennes) and Mr Rodolphe Mulle de Terschueren (Valeurs libérales citoyennes) respectively asked for the annulment of the entire election of the Chamber of Representatives. By complaints of 5 June 2014, Ms. Michèle Demoulin (Citizen Liberal Values) and Mr. Rodolphe Mulle de Terschueren (Citizen Liberal Values) requested the annulment of the entire election of the House of Representatives. By e-mail of 6 June 2014, Mrs Caroline Mardens from Ukkel complains about the poor readability of the screens of the voting machines. By e-mail of June 6, 2014, Caroline Mardens d'Uccle complains about the poor readability of the screens of the voting computers. On 10 June 2014, Ms Tatiana Hachimi (Parti Populaire) requested a systematic recount in the Brussels-Capital constituency as well as a hearing. By complaint of 10 June 2014, Ms. Tatiana Hachimi (Popular Party) requested a systematic recount in the Brussels-Capital electoral district and the organisation of a hearing. By letter dated 10 June 2014, Ms Muriel Gerkens and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke (Ecolo-Groen) asked that a detailed and detailed report on the conduct of the elections be prepared by the Home Affairs Office. This request was forwarded by the President of the Chamber to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for the Interior and Equal Opportunities on 10 June 2014. By letter dated 10 June 2014, Ms. Muriel Gerkens and Mr. Stefaan Van Hecke (Ecolo-Groen) requested that the Internal FPS prepare a detailed and detailed report on the conduct of the elections. This request was transmitted on 10 June 2014 by the Speaker of the House to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior and Equal Opportunities. By appeal of 11 June 2014, Mr Benjamin Coenen and Mr Patrick Milland (La Droite) asked that the entire election of the Chamber of Representatives be annulled. By claim of 11 June 2014, Messrs. Benjamin Coenen and Patrick Milland (La Droit) asked to cancel the whole election of the House of Representatives. By appeal of 12 June 2014, Mr Laurent Louis (Debout les Belges!) asked the annulment of all the elections to the Chamber of Representatives and to be heard. By complaint of 12 June 2014, Mr Laurent Louis (Debou les Belges!) requests the annulment of the whole election of the House of Representatives and to be heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u5	These objections and letters shall be sent to the first committee. These claims and correspondence are referred to the First Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u6	By e-mail dated 27 May 2014, Mr Filip Gressens pointed out that, according to him, on 25 May 2014, an unjustified vote was taken at the polling station No. 52 in Montenaken-Gingelom (canton of Sint-Truiden, constituency of Limburg), and asks to investigate this. By e-mail of 27 May 2014, Mr. Filip Gressens indicated that, according to him, persons had been unduly allowed to vote at polling station No. 52 in Montenaken-Gingelom (canton of Saint-Trond, electoral district of Limburg), and requested that this question be examined. On 17 June 2014, Mr Jozef Peeters applied for the annulment of the electoral procedures and, in particular, those in the polling station No. 12 in the canton of Bree (Limburg). According to him, there was an obstacle to the exercise of the right to vote and the violation of electoral secrecy. By complaint of 17 June 2014, Mr Jozef Peeters requested the cancellation of the election operations, in particular those of polling station No. 12 in the canton of Bree (Limburg). According to him, he was prevented from voting and found a violation of the secrecy of the ballot.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u7	These objections shall be sent to the second committee. These claims are referred to the second commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u8	On 30 May 2014, Ms Séverine Laurent (P+) and Mr Pierre Renversez (P+) complained that the inclusion of the candidate lists in certain polling stations of the Hainaut constituency was incomplete and irregular. They ask for the annulment of the results of the election of the Chamber of Representatives. By complaints of 30 May 2014, Ms.Severine Laurent (P+) and Mr.Pierre Renversez (P+) complained that the posting of the lists of candidates was incomplete and irregular at certain polling stations in the electoral district of Hainaut. They request the annulment of the results of the election of the House of Representatives. By appeal of 12 June 2014, Mr Laurent Louis (Debout les Belges!) asked In the alternative order, as far as the Hainaut constituency is concerned, the recounting and analysis of the voided and blank votes and the fixing of the right number of votes in favour of Debout les Belges! which was declared invalid. By complaint of 12 June 2014, Mr Laurent Louis (Debou les Belges!) requests, in the alternative, as regards the electoral district of Hainaut, the recount and analysis of the declared invalid votes and the white votes as well as the determination of the exact number of votes in favour of Standing Belgians! which have been declared invalid. On 16 June 2014, Mr Mischaël Modrikamen (Parti Populare) requested that the full recount be carried out in the Hainaut constituency and that the votes considered invalid be examined to determine whether the Parti Populare was not overrepresented in this category and, where appropriate, the annulment of the electoral procedures. He also asks to be heard. By complaint of 16 June 2014, Mr. Mischaël Modrikamen (Popular Party) requested a full recount of the electoral district of Hainaut and the examination of the votes declared invalid in order to verify whether the People's Party was not overrepresented in that category, and, if so, the annulment of the elections. He also asked to be heard. By e-mail sent on 19 June 2014, Mr Lode Mommaerts asked for the invalidation of the elections in the Canton of Aarschot (Flemish-Brabant) because of the lack of accessibility of the polling stations 12-15 and the absence of the guarantee of a secret ballot in the polling station No. 13. By complaint, sent by e-mail of 19 June 2014, Mr Lode Mommaerts asks for the cancellation of the elections in the canton of Aarschot (Flemish Brabant) due to poor accessibility of polling stations Nos. 12 to 15 and the absence of the guarantee of the secrecy of voting in the office No. 13.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u9	These objections shall be sent to the Fifth Committee. These claims are referred to the Fifth Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u10	By appeal of 4 June 2014, Mr Philippe Chansay Wilmotte and Mr Damien Sougnez (Valeurs libérales citoyennes) in a subsidiary order requested the annulment of the elections in Liège. By complaint of 4 June 2014, Messrs. Philippe Chansay Wilmotte and Damien Sougnez (Liberal citizens' values) ask, in the alternative, for the annulment of the elections in the electoral district of Liège. On 5 June 2014, Ms Michèle Demoulin (Valeurs libérales citoyennes) and Mr Rodolphe Mulle de Terschueren (Valeurs libérales citoyennes) respectively asked for the annulment of the elections in Liège. By complaints of 5 June 2014, Ms Michèle Demoulin (Citizen Liberal Values) and Mr Rodolphe Mulle de Terschueren (Citizen Liberal Values) respectively requested, in the alternative, the annulment of the elections in the electoral district of Liège. By appeal of 11 June 2014, Mr Benjamin Coenen and Mr Patrick Milland (La Droite) in a subsidiary order requested the annulment of the elections in the Liège constituency. By claim of 11 June 2014, Messrs. Benjamin Coenen and Patrick Milland (La Droit) request, in the alternative, the annulment of the elections in the electoral district of Liège.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u11	These objections shall be sent to the sixth committee. These claims are referred to the Sixth Committee. By letter dated 6 June 2014, Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for the Interior and Equal Opportunities forwarded to us the letter of the Home Office concerning the computer bug of 25 May 2014 and the way it was identified and treated. By letter of 6 June 2014, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior and Equal Opportunities sends us the information note drawn up by the Internal FPS on the explanations concerning the computer bug that occurred on 25 May 2014 and the manner in which it was identified and treated. By letter dated 16 June 2014, Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for the Interior and Equal Opportunities sent us the report prepared by Price Waterhouse-Coopers Enterprise Advisory SCRL. By letter dated 16 June 2014, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior and Equal Opportunities transmitted to us the certification report prepared by Price Waterhouse-Coopers Enterprise Advisory SCRL. These documents have been made available to you. These documents were made available to you. The six committees for the verification of credentials are now being set up by drawing lots. Each committee shall consist of seven members. The six Credentials Committees of seven members each will be drawn by lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u12	The first committee was composed as follows: Mr Raf Terwingen, Mrs Griet Smaers, Mr Melchior Wathelet, Mr Dirk Van Mechelen, Mrs Evita Willaert, Mrs Fabienne Winckel and Mr Veli Yüksel. This first commission analyses the general complaints and the files concerning the Brussels-Capital district. The second committee was composed as follows: Mr Steven Vandeput, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Mrs Nathalie Muylle, Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mr Peter Vanvelthoven and Mr Patrick Dewael. This second commission analyses the minutes concerning the provinces of Limburg and Antwerp. The third committee dealing with the dossiers of West Flanders and Luxembourg is composed of: Mr Koen Geens, Mr Bart De Wever, Mr Robert Van de Velde, Mr Tim Vandenput, Mr Roel Deseyn, Mrs Muriel Gerkens, Mr Hendrik Vuye. The fourth committee analyses the dossiers for the provinces of East Flanders and Walloon Brabant; it will consist of Ms Özlem Özen, Mr Peter De Roover, Mr Elio Di Rupo, Ms Nahima Lanjri, Ms Monica De Coninck, Mrs Véronique Caprasse, Mr Peter Buysrogge. The fifth committee, devoted to Hainaut and Flemish Brabant, will be composed of Mr David Geerts, Mr Jan Vercammen, Mr Aldo Carcaci, Ms Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Mr Peter Luykx, Mr Christoph D'Haese, Mrs Inez De Coninck. The Sixth Committee, devoted to Liège and Namur, will be composed of Mr Daniel Bacquelaine, Mr Emmanuel Burton, Mr Philippe Blanchart, Mr Marco Van Hees, Mr David Clarinval, Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Ms Meryame Kitir. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u13	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I welcome the presence in the rostrum of the President of the Council of the European Union, Mr Herman Van Rompuy, as well as his already somewhat nostalgic neighbour to this House, Mr Herman De Croo, and the Chief of Staff of His Majesty the King.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u15	Here is the report of the first committee for the verification of credentials: the electoral district of Brussels-Capital. Présents: M. Raf Terwingen, M. Dirk Van Mechelen, M. Veli Yüksel, Mrs Griet Maers, Mrs Evita Willaert, Mme Fabienne Winkel et moi-même. Ladies and gentlemen, u Today, Thursday 19 June 2014, the committee was instructed to report to the plenary and to communicate its conclusions on the validity of the electoral process for the full renewal of the Chamber of Representatives of 25 May last in the Brussels-Capital constituency and on the validity of the credentials of the elected representatives of the people and their successors elected there. Your commission was instructed by the plenary meeting on Thursday, 19 June 2014, to report to it and to present its conclusions on the validity of the electoral operations for the full renewal of the House of Representatives of 25 May 2014 in the electoral district of Brussels-Capital and on the validity of the credentials of the actual and alternate representatives elected there. The headquarters of the Brussels-Capital constituency has appointed the following elected representatives: The main office of the electoral district of Brussels-Capital has declared elected as effective members:
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u16	- MR: Reynders (D.,J.), Schepmans (F.,A.), Pivin (P.C.), Thiéry (D.,M.); - FDF: Maingain (O.D.), Caprasse (V.,F.). - Ecolo: Khattabi (Z.), Hellings (B.,D.); - PS: Onkelinx (L.,A.), Kir (E.,E.), Lalieux (K.,M.), Laaouej (A.), Ben Hamou (N.); - cdH: Delperee (F.,P.), Fremault (C., P.);
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u17	- MR: Reynders (D.,J.), Schepmans (F.,A.), Pivin (P.C.), Thiéry (D.,M.); - FDF: Maingain (O.D.), Caprasse (V.,F.). - Ecolo: Khattabi (Z.), Hellings (B.,D.); - PS: Onkelinx (L.,A.), Kir (E.,E.), Lalieux (K.,M.), Laaouej (A.), Ben Hamou (N.); - cdH: Delperee (F.,P.), Fremault (C., P.); The following members-successors were also elected: The following were also elected as alternate members:
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u18	- MR: Wilmès (S.), Calomne (G.,R.), Nivesse (L.), de Donnea (F.-X.,G.), Quevrin (A.,A.), Cassart (Mr.), Tellier (S.,D.), Corhay (O.J.), Bondu (M.,A.); - FDF: Libert (E.R.), Baumerder (L.), Dupont (M.,A.), Paquot (M.,A.), Nimal (F.,J.), Bentein (D.,M.), Lambin (F.,M.), Péters (J., P.), Joannes (J.,M.). - Ecolo: Vanden Burre (G.,P.), Waterschoot (V.,I.), Deleuze (O.,G), Turin (S.), Chairi (M.), Boucquey (S.,E.), Todts (O.), Minet (S.,J.), Curraj (E.); - PS: Mayeur (Y.,E.), Rigodanzo (V.), Vervoort (M.,D.), Kalimbiriro (N.), Limani (F.), Crespo Garcia (C.,J.), Parent (V.,S.), Fevez (L.;E.), Llopis Lorand (N.,Ch.); - cdH: Dallemagne (G.,J.), Bennani (S.), Riguelle (J.,D), Sebbahi (M.), Lita Mboko (C.), Desmarets (A.,Ch.), Jacobs (K.,F.), Schollers (V.,C.), Mertens (R.,J.);
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u19	- MR: Wilmès (S.), Calomne (G.,R.), Nivesse (L.), de Donnea (F.-X.,G.), Quevrin (A.,A.), Cassart (Mr.), Tellier (S.,D.), Corhay (O.J.), Bondu (M.,A.); - FDF: Libert (E.R.), Baumerder (L.), Dupont (M.,A.), Paquot (M.,A.), Nimal (F.,J.), Bentein (D.,M.), Lambin (F.,M.), Péters (J., P.), Joannes (J.,M.). - Ecolo: Vanden Burre (G.,P.), Waterschoot (V.,I.), Deleuze (O.,G), Turin (S.), Chairi (M.), Boucquey (S.,E.), Todts (O.), Minet (S.,J.), Curraj (E.) ; - PS: Mayeur (Y.,E.), Rigodanzo (V.), Vervoort (M.,D.), Kalimbiriro (N.), Limani (F.), Crespo Garcia (C.,J.), Parent (V.,S.), Fevez (L.;E.), Llopis Lorand (N.,Ch.); - cdH: Dallemagne (G.,J.), Bennani (S.), Riguelle (J.,D), Sebbahi (M.), Lita Mboko (C.), Desmarets (A.,Ch.), Jacobs (K.,F.), Schollers (V.,C.), Mertens (R.,J.); Those elected shall be included in the parliamentary document DOC 54 0001/001-2014 (BZ) made available to you. These elected representatives are included in the parliamentary document DOC 54 0001/001-2014 (SE) which has been made available to you. As the following objections were raised against the electoral procedures. Considering that the following claims have been lodged against the electoral operations. - complaints intended to annul the elections of 25 May 2014 - - complaints concerning the annulment of the elections of 25 May 2014 -
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u20	Mr Philippe Chansay Wilmotte and Mr Damien Sougnez, dominated respectively in 4500 Hoei, chaussée de Liège 37, and 4870 Trooz, rue Biche les Près 5A, by letter dated 4 June 2014; Ms Michèle Demoulin, domicilized in 1410 Waterloo, avenue Marie-Louise 7, by letter dated 5 June 2014, and Mr Rodolphe Mulle de Terschueren, domicilized in 1400 Nivelles, rue Auguste Lévêque 26, by letter dated 5 June 2014; they complain that the integrity of the vote was not guaranteed, given the frequent computer failures, the lack of protection measures to ensure the secrecy of the vote and the non-respect of different international standards in relation to the transparency of the election process. MM. Philippe Chansay Wilmotte and Damien Sougnez, respectively domiciled at 4500 Huy, 37 carriageway of Liège and 4870 Trooz, 5A rue Biche les Prés, by letter of 4 June 2014; Mme Michèle Demoulin, domiciled at 1410 Waterloo, avenue Marie-Louise 7, by letter of 5 June 2014 and M. Rodolphe Mulle de Terschueren, domiciled at 1400 Nivelles, 26 rue Auguste Lévêque by letter of 5 June 2014, complain that the integrity of the electoral process was not ensured due to numerous computer malfunctions, the absence of protective measures to ensure the secrecy of the votes and the non-compliance with various international standards relating to the transparency of the electoral process. By letter of 18 June 2014, the same applicants submitted an additional pleading which, in addition to the pleas already raised, claims that Belgians residing abroad (Australia and Greece) did not receive the documents necessary to vote in good time. By letter of 18 June 2014, the same applicants filed an amplifying submission which, in addition to the development of the pleas already made, denounces the fact that Belgians residing abroad (Australia and Greece) did not receive their voting documents in time. ♪ ♪
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u21	Mr Benjamin Coenen and Mr Patrick Milland, with unknown residence, also complain by e-mail of 11 June 2014 that the integrity of the vote was not guaranteed, given the frequent IT incidents, the lack of protection measures to ensure the secrecy of the vote and the non-compliance with different international standards related to the transparency of the electoral process. MM. Benjamin Coenen and Patrick Milland, whose home is not known, by e-mail of 11 June 2014, also complain that the integrity of the vote has not been respected due to numerous computer malfunctions, the lack of protective measures to ensure the secrecy of votes and the non-compliance with various international standards relating to the transparency of the electoral process. ♪ ♪
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u22	Mr Laurent Louis, who served in 6110 Montigny le Tilleul, rue Coteaux du Tilleul 1b, also questioned the integrity of the vote by letter of 12 June 2014, given the numerous irregularities and democratic shortcomings identified. Laurent Louis, domiciled at 6110 Montigny le Tilleul, rue Coteaux du Tilleul 1b, by letter of 12 June 2014, also questions the integrity of the vote due to the numerous irregularities and democratic defects found. ♪ ♪
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u23	Ms Marie-Luce Lovinfosse, dominated at 1800 Vilvoorde, Komatsulaan 1, complains by letter of 4 June 2014, both on her own behalf and on behalf of her party and its members, that the integrity of the vote was not guaranteed, given the frequent computer failures and the incidents of manual voting (searched or thrown into the garbage bin). Marie-Luce Lovinfose, domiciled at 1800 Vilvorde, Komatsu Avenue 1, by letter of 4 June 2014, complains, in her personal name as well as on behalf of her party and her parcels, that the integrity of the vote was not ensured due to numerous computer malfunctions but also to incidents related to the manual vote (loss of ballot papers or thrown in the trash). All the above-mentioned complainants claim that the entire election of the Chamber of Representatives of 25 May 2014 would be annulled. All the above-mentioned complainants seek the annulment of the entire election of 25 May 2014 for the House of Representatives. ♪ ♪ - a complaint concerning the systematic recounting of ballots and the organisation of a hearing by the Committee on the Verification of Credentials and Immunities - - complaint concerning the systematic recount of the ballots issued and the organization of a hearing by the House's Credentials Committee -
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u24	Ms Tatiana Hachimi, Domicilized in 1030 Schaerbeek, Avenue Maurice Maeterlinck 84, complains by letter of 10 June 2014 that numerous technical incidents have occurred in the canton of Schaerbeek, which should call into question the accuracy of the election results. The complainant therefore demands a systematic recount of the ballots issued and the organisation of a hearing by the Chambers' Committee for the Verification of Credentials. Ms. Tatiana Hachimi, resident of 1030 Schaerbeek, avenue Maurice Maeterlinck 84, by letter of 10 June 2014, complained about the occurrence of numerous technical incidents in Schaerbeek canton; incidents which should call into question the accuracy of election results. The complainant therefore requests a systematic recount of the ballots issued and the organisation of a hearing by the House's Credentials Committee. ♪ ♪ Ms Caroline Mardens, dominated in 1180 Brussels, Floréallaan 54, by e-mail of 6 June 2014, wonders whether it is not possible to re-introduce the manual voices due to the lack of readability of the screens. Caroline Mardens, a resident of 1180 Brussels, avenue de Floréal 54, by e-mail of 6 June 2014, asked about the possibility of returning to the manual vote in view of the lack of readability of the screens. ♪ ♪ By letter dated 10 June 2014, Ms Muriel Gerkens and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke submitted a request to the outgoing President of the Chamber to obtain a report from the Home Office in connection with the elections to the European Parliament, the Chamber of Representatives and the Land Parliaments of 25 May 2014 in the constituencies of Wallonia, Flanders, the German-speaking Community and the Brussels-Capital Region. By letter dated 16 June 2014, the Minister for the Interior, Ms. Joëlle Milquet replied to that question. By letter of 10 June 2014, Ms Muriel Gerkens and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke applied to the outgoing President of the Chamber for a report by the Internal FPS on the holding of the European, Federal and Regional elections of 25 May 2014 in the Walloon, Flemish, German-speaking and Brussels-Capital electoral districts. By letter of 16 June 2014, the Minister of the Interior, Ms Joëlle Milquet, responded to this request. ♪ ♪ A. As regards admissibility A. Admissibility
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u25	Whereas a first complaint lodged by Valeurs Libérales Citoyennes (VLC) contains two different applicant residences. On page 1 of the appeal, the name Michèle Demoulin is mentioned while page 8 mentions the name Philippe Chansay Wilmotte; moreover, the complaint does not contain any signature identifying the real applicant with certainty. Considering that a first claim filed by Civil Liberties Values (VLC) contains two different identities as claimants. Page 1 of the appeal indicates Ms. Michèle Demoulin's name, while page 8 indicates Mr. Philippe Chansay Wilmotte's name and does not contain a signature to identify the actual applicant with certainty. Whereas, as a result of the impossibility of identifying the applicant, such an application is inadmissible. Considering, therefore, that such a request is not admissible if it is impossible to identify the applicant. Whereas a second complaint lodged by Valeurs Libérales Citoyennes (VLC) also contains two different applicant residences. On page 1 of the appeal, the name Mulle de Terschueren is mentioned while page 8 mentions the name Philippe Chansay Wilmotte; moreover, the complaint does not contain any signature identifying the real applicant with certainty. Considering that a second claim filed by Civil Liberties Values (VLC) also contains two different identities as claimants. Page 1 of the appeal indicates the name of Mr. Mulle de Terschueren, while page 8 indicates the name of Mr. Philippe Chansay Wilmotte and does not contain a signature to identify the actual applicant with certainty. Whereas, as a result of the impossibility of identifying the applicant, such an application is inadmissible. Considering, therefore, that such a request is not admissible if it is impossible to identify the applicant. B. As far as land is concerned B. The substance Complaints by VLC (Mrs Chansay Wilmotte and Mr Sougnez), LA DROITE (Mr Benjamin Coenen and Mr Patrick Milland), Debout Les Belges! (Mr Laurent Louis), B.U.B (Mrs Marie-Luce Lovinfosse) and the PP (Mrs Tatiana Hachimi).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u26	• Request for a hearing • Request for hearing Whereas neither the Constitution (Article 48) nor the Choice Code (Article 231) require the assemblers to hear the persons who have lodged a complaint. Considering that neither the Constitution (art. 48) nor the Electoral Code (art. 231) require the assemblies to hear persons who have lodged a complaint. Whereas it should be noted that a similar request was made following the 2010 elections and was rejected. Considering that it should be noted that in the 2010 elections a similar request had been made, which had been rejected. Whereas, finally, all documents relating to the complaints submitted are at the disposal of the members of the committee. Considering, finally, that all documents relating to the claims submitted are available to the members of the commission. • Lack of transparency in the electoral process and lack of an independent body to decide on the validity of the elections • Lack of transparency in the electoral process and lack of an independent body to rule on the validity of elections Whereas Article 48 of the Constitution provides that "Each Chamber shall examine the credentials of its members and settle the disputes arising in this regard" and that Article 231 of the Rules of Procedure provides that "Only the Chamber of Representatives and the Senate shall rule on the validity of the electoral procedures, as regards both their members and their successors." Considering that, according to article 48 of the Constitution, "Each Chamber shall verify the powers of its members and shall determine the objections to them" and that, pursuant to article 231 of the Electoral Code, "The House of Representatives and the Senate shall decide alone on the validity of the electoral operations in respect of their alternates". Whereas, therefore, since your committee is only competent to rule on the validity of the electoral procedure, it is not for your committee to rule on the settlement of disputes arising from the parliamentary elections by the Constitution. Considering therefore that being solely competent to decide on the validity of the electoral operations, it is not for your commission to decide on the settlement by the Constitution of the dispute over the general elections. Whereas, finally, the judgment of 2 March 2010 (Grosaru t/Romania) of the European Court of Human Rights states in particular that several countries, including Belgium, have a long democratic tradition whereby elections are validated by Parliament, which removes any doubt as to the legitimacy of such a practice. Considering, finally, that the judgment of 2 March 2010, Grosaru v. Romania, of the European Court of Human Rights states, inter alia, that several countries, including Belgium, enjoy a long democratic tradition of validation of electoral operations by Parliament, which removes any doubts as to the legitimacy of such a practice. •"Computerbug" of 25 May 2014 and request the recounting of votes • "Bug" computer intervention on 25 May 2014 and request for recount of votes Whereas the minutes of the general assembly of the votes of the headquarters of the Brussels-Capital constituency note that: in view of the frequent 'technical' interventions of third parties, it exercises only marginal control over the reliability of the results. Considering that the minutes of the general census of votes of the Brussels-Capital Main Electoral District Office observe that: because of numerous interventions'so-called techniques' of third parties, it exercises, in all things, only very marginal control over the reliability of the results. Whereas, in the context of the decision-making process for validating the election of the Chamber of Representatives, the Minister for the Interior, Ms Joëlle Milquet, sent the outgoing President of the Chamber of Representatives on 6 June 2014 an information note from the Home Office explaining the computer bug of 25 May and how it was identified and handled. Considering that, as part of the decision to approve the election of the House of Representatives, the Minister of the Interior, Ms. Joëlle Milquet, sent to the outgoing President of the House of Representatives, dated 6 June 2014, an information note drawn up by the Internal SPF on the explanations concerning the computer "bug" which took place on 25 May and the manner in which it was identified and dealt with. Whereas that note shows that for all the votes affected by the bug, the FPS carried out a new impact calculation per constituency, per election and per list. This confirms that there is no impact on the distribution of seats for the election of the Chamber of Representatives. The unregistered votes represent 0.070 % (initially 0.067 %) of the total votes in the cantons involved in the computer bug." 4). Whereas it appears from this note that: For all the votes affected by the bug, the SPF has recalculated the impact by constituency, by election and by list. The result is confirmation of the lack of impact on the distribution of seats for the election of the House of Representatives. Incorrect votes represent 0.070 % (initially 0.067 %) of the total votes cast in the cantons concerned by the computer bug.(p.5) Whereas this small impact is explicitly reflected in the annexes communicated by the Minister for the Interior. For the parties who have lodged a complaint in connection with the elections to the Chamber of Representatives in the Brussels-Capital constituency, the votes for LA DROITE are four cancelled and 10 votes for the Parti Populaire and Debout Les Belges respectively!. Considering that this low impact is explained in the annexes provided by the Minister of the Interior. For the parties that have lodged a complaint in the elections for the House of Representatives in the electoral district of Brussels-Capital, 4 votes are cancelled for THE RIGHT and 10 votes for the People's Party and Debout Les Belges respectively!. Whereas the College of Experts responsible for checking the electronic voting and voting system considers the calculations of the Home Office, according to which the void votes do not affect the distribution of seats between the lists, to be correct. (Doc 54 0014/001-2014 BZ) Considering that the College of Experts for the Control of the Automated Voting and Counting System also considers the calculations of the Inland FPS to be accurate according to which invalidated votes do not have an impact on the distribution of seats among the lists. (Doc 54 0014/001-2014 SE) Whereas, therefore, there is no reason to respond to the request for the recounting of votes. Whereas, therefore, there is no need to proceed with the request for a recount of votes. A member asks a few questions about this and wishes to obtain more clarity about the reply of the Minister for the Interior. Your committee believes that these questions can be dealt with later in the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Public Service. A member of the committee asked a number of questions in this regard and asked for more details on the response of the Minister of the Interior. Your committee believes that these issues can be dealt with later in the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service. • Right of Belgians to vote abroad • Belgians' right to vote abroad Whereas, with regard to the problems already mentioned concerning the late receipt of certain ballot letters abroad, your committee refers to the reply of the Belgian Ambassador in Australia according to whom this delay is due to: simply the fact that the legal deadline for the transmission of the ballot letters by the Belgian municipalities to the embassy was too short (letter quoted in VLC's supplementary statement) Considering that, in view of the difficulties raised with regard to the late reception abroad of certain ballot papers, your committee refers to the reply of the Belgian ambassador to Australia, according to which this delay is simply due to the fact that the legal deadline for sending ballot papers from Belgian municipalities to the embassy was too short (letter cited by the amplifying memorandum introduced by VLC). Whereas it is not up to your committee to decide on the legislation in force. Considering that it is not up to your committee to decide on the legislation in force. Whereas, however, your committee wishes the application of electoral legislation concerning Belgians abroad to be evaluated by the government. Considering, however, that your committee wants the application of Belgian voting legislation abroad to be assessed by the government. In view of the constitutional obligation laid down in Articles 195, 46 and 48 of the Constitution, your committee declares the complaints referred to above unfounded. In view of the constitutional obligation under articles 195, 46 and 48 of the Constitution, your Commission declares the above claims unfounded. As the elected representatives have demonstrated the conditions laid down in Article 64 of the Constitution, your Commission considers that the credentials of the elected representatives of the members and successors of the Brussels-Capital electoral district may be valid and proposes that they be admitted as titled members and successors respectively. Since the elected representatives have justified the conditions required by Article 64 of the Constitution, your Commission considers that the powers of the actual representatives and the alternates elected by the Brussels-Capital Main Electoral District Office should be validated and proposes to admit them respectively as an effective member and as an alternate member. This report was adopted by 6 votes to one. The present report was approved by six votes to one.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u27	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ecolo-Groen Group would like to thank you, Mr President, for providing the members of this House with a report – the report of the Internal SPF – which is more complete than the one which, a few days ago, our colleagues from the federated entities received about the difficulties and shortcomings found during the organisation of the vote on 25 May. The Greens are delighted to have been heard and to have received, in part, answers to the letter sent to you by our colleagues Gerkens and Van Hecke on 10 June. However, the serious concerns and questions that we had before the release of this report and the discussions that have taken place in the six committees have not alleviated our fears, far from that. The minister's report contains no explanation of the irregularities found in the paper voting, contrary to what we asked in the letter; moreover, the Belgian vote abroad was problematic. With regard to electronic voting, the bulk of the song, the report contains no explanation of the clear role played by Stésud, the consulting firm, and PwC. It was the intervention of the staff of the Stesud parent company, NRB, that allowed the identification of the computer bug itself. Therefore, a third-party company within the framework of the Internal SPF and its appropriate minister played a role in the essential event of voting. It's abnormal and it's worrying for the Greens! The new software intended to gather the votes and which, in practice, had difficulty doing so with this new voting change feature during the vote, was validated by PwC. PwC's responsibility is full and complete. Its role, the mission for which the State had entrusted it with this contract, is precisely to prevent this type of difficulty. The Home SPF has failed! The Minister responsible for the Home SPF has failed! This suspension in limbo of the official outcome of the elections must lead us to question the very legitimate loss of confidence that citizens can have in this fundamental moment, the founder of democracy, which is voting. This cacophony around electronic voting and these 2,250 lost voices undermine the credibility of the democratic system on one of its essential foundations. To this poor image are added the irresponsible words of the Minister of the Interior, who said on a private French channel – I quote it for the Flemish colleagues – that "10% of the invalid votes are cancelled in general at each election". Here, the cancellation of these 2,250 votes, even if they have no impact, Mr. Wathelet, on the distribution of seats among the various parties, sits on the right to vote of at least 2,250 voters. And this is unbearable! The Greens also want to take advantage of the next five years to work on the reform of the control system that we are implementing today, that is, the control of elections by the assemblies themselves. We wish, and it is to reflect here, that recourse be made not to newly elected parliamentarians, who are both judges and parties, but to independent bodies. It should be discussed here whether these bodies should be the existing courts and tribunals. In-depth parliamentary work must now take place to analyse how other European states practice and implement a fairer, more democratic and more transparent procedure. Of course, sections 48 and 142, Mr Delperée, are not subject to revision today, but this does not relieve us of any substantive work to be done now with a view to amending these rules in the next legislature. Both for this aspect of the material organisation of future elections, Ecolo and Groen will therefore ask to continue the work here and to reflect on the best legal and technical means to restore the confidence of citizens in the exercise of this fundamental right to vote. For all these reasons, the Ecolo-Groen Group will vote against the report of the first committee responsible for cross-sectional and general complaints and abstain from the other reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report by the FPS Interior has clearly shown that there have been effective irregularities in the recording of votes in Brussels. They are related: they would not have had any influence on voting. However, we believe that this remains a very bad thing in a democracy. Because of these irregularities, there is a negative hunch about the elections. I think we agree that elections should be organised correctly. Unlike our fellow Members from Ecolo-Green, we want to do more in the next five years than just keep an eye on voting. We will abstain on the next vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u30	Mr President, regardless of the report I read earlier, I think I can repeat our mission when we have to validate elections. All the elements at our disposal in the framework of this Credentials Committee allow us today, very clearly, to validate the elections. It is true that some debates are open and I have no doubt that we will still have discussions on this for the next five years. I understand that some are using the rostrum today to announce political debates, but our role is to validate the elections. I repeat that all the elements in our possession allow us to do so without any doubt, and we can rejoice at that. Let us remember why we must vote today and respect the agenda!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u31	Mr President, there is no doubt that electronic voting may have had its last moments of existence in this country, as a result of the wanderings at the time of the removal, in a number of electoral cantons, of main counting offices. Undoubtedly, we will have to review our electoral control system. And in terms of principles, we all know that the European Court has condemned the fact that it is the parliamentary assemblies themselves, even if certain guarantees are real, that validate the outcome of the elections. In a way, it's being judge and gone. We have known this legal problem for a long time and we know that it will have to be addressed. This could have been answered at the time of the sixth reform of the State. I say this particularly to those who want to be more transparent but who may not have taken care of it at that time. However, it will have to be accepted today that, on the basis of the information provided to us, there is no reason to dispute the results, even if there is doubt, but that there is no certainty as to how the operations were verified in the main offices. It is not tolerable in a democracy that respects itself that it is a private, unmandated society that has this mission and that it escapes independent control.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u32	Mr. Maingain, did you say "pull out"? Get out of the way! I heard "pull out"! Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? (Noni) Since at least eight Members have requested it, we shall proceed to the vote on the name. We are voting on the conclusions of the first committee. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 96 Yes No. [[15]] No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the conclusions of the first committee were adopted. Consequently, the conclusions of the first committee were adopted. I call on Members of the Chamber of Representatives, the elected representatives of the Brussels-Capital constituency whose admission is proposed by the committee. I declare the elected members of the Brussels-Capital riding to be effective members of the House of Representatives, whose admission is proposed by the Commission. In addition, I call for successors, those elected as such whose admission is proposed. I also declare the elected representatives proposed to be elected in that capacity. I invite the effective members, as well as the successors who replace the outgoing effective members, to take the following oath: 'I swear to comply with the Constitution'. I invite the actual members, as well as the alternate members to replace the actual members who have resigned, to take the following oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution". I would remind the House that the elected representatives of the electoral board of the Brussels-Capital constituency are part of the Dutch or French language group of the Chamber, depending on whether they take the oath in Dutch or in French. If the oath is taken in several languages, the language in which it was first taken is decisive. I would point out that the deputies elected by the electoral college of the electoral district of Brussels-Capital are members of either the French linguistic group or the Dutch linguistic group of the Chamber, depending on whether they take an oath in French or Dutch. If the oath is taken in several languages, the one used in the first place is decisive.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u33	I now give the floor to Mrs Nathalie Muylle as rapporteur for the second committee, which has examined the dossiers relating to Antwerp and Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you the report of the second committee on the verification of credentials for the electoral circles of Antwerp and Limburg. Steven Vandeput was present as chairman, Stefaan Van Hecke, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, myself as rapporteur, Georges Gilkinet, Peter Vanvelthoven and Patrick Dewael. Your committee today, Thursday 19 June 2014, was instructed by the plenary to communicate its conclusions on the validity of the electoral process for the full renewal of the Chamber of Representatives of 25 May last in the constituencies of Antwerp and Limburg and on the validity of the credentials of the elected representatives of the people and their successors who were elected there. Your commission was instructed by the plenary meeting on Thursday, 19 June 2014, to report to it and to present its conclusions on the validity of the electoral operations for the full renewal of the House of Representatives on 25 May 2014 in the electoral districts of Antwerp and Limburg and on the validity of the powers of the elected effective and alternate representatives. The electoral headquarters have appointed the following elected representatives: The Chief Electoral Officers have declared elected as effective members:
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u35	- Green: Almaci (M.), Calvo y Castañer (K.); - Flemish Interest: Dewinter (F.,M.), Dillen (M.E.); - Open Vld: Turtelboom (A.), Van Mechelen (D.,L.); - sp.a: De Coninck (M.,J.), Geerts (D.), Detiège (M.,F.); - N-VA: De Wever (B.,A.), Mr Demir (Z.), De Roover (P.M.), Jambon (J.M.), Wollants (B.), De Wit (S.,M.), Van Peel (V.), Van Camp (Y.) Metsu (K.) Van de Velde (R.), Bellens (R.,G.); - CD&V: Verherstraeten (S.), Lanjri (N.), Van den Bergh (J.), Smaers (G.,M.)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u36	- Groen: Almaci (M.), Calvo y Castañer (K.); - Flemish Interest: Dewinter (F.,M.), Dillen (M.E.); - Open Vld: Turtelboom (A), Van Mechelen (D.,L.); - sp.a: De Coninck (M.,J.), Geerts (D.), Detiège (M.,F.); - N-VA: De Wever (B.,A.), Mr Demir (Z.), De Roover (P.M.), Jambon (J.M.), Wollants (B.), De Wit (S.,M.), Van Peel (V.), Van Camp (Y.) Metsu (K.) Van de Velde (R.), Bellens (R.,G.); - CD&V: Verherstraeten (S.), Lanjri (N.), Van den Bergh (J.), Smaers (G.,M.)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u37	- Open Vld: Dewael (P.Y.), Lines (N.); - sp.a: Vanvelthoven (P.,K.), Kitir (M.); - N-VA: Vandeput (S.,H.), Grosemans (K.,M.), Luykx (P.,F.), Wouters (V.,L.), Janssen (W.); - CD&V: Beke (W.), Heeren (V.,G.), Mr Terwingen (R.L.)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u38	- Open Vld: Dewael (P.Y.), Lines (N.); - sp.a: Vanvelthoven (P.,K.), Kitir (M.); - N-VA: Vandeput (S.,H.), Grosemans (K.,M.), Luykx (P.,F.), Wouters (V.,L.), Janssen (W.); - CD&V: Beke (W.), Heeren (V.,G.), Mr Terwingen (R.L.) The following members-successors were also elected: The following were also elected as alternate members:
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u39	- Green: Heiremans (K.), Fathi (O.), De Bie (M.,M.), Verrelst (Ch., A.), Janssens (Ch., M.), Van Hoffelen (K.), Heylen (L.,M.), Deroy (E.), Syed Riaz (H.), De Backer (L.,L.), Van den Borne (T.,J.), Apers (L.,L.), Van Bel (T.,L.); - Flemish Interest: Penris (J.,W.), Creyelman-Spitael (M.,G.), De Winter (S.,R.), Walschaerts (W.,A.), Limbourg (V.,M.), Van Akeleyen (Ch., P.), Cleymans (A., J.), Boudewijns (Y.,L.), Mr Schroyens (M.,C.), van Craenenbroeck (L.,M.), Moeyersons (J.), Huijbrechts (E.,J.), Leffelaer (J., E.); - Open Vld: Wilrycx (F.,F.), Stokmans (A., E.), Avontrodt (Y.,M.), Mr Leyzen (S.,M.), Houdet (E.,M.), Gysels (K.,J.), Guldentops (L.,M.), Willemse (R.,A.), Vercammen (N.), Peeters (J.,M.), Heiremans (T., Y.), Cleymans (R.,J.), Hendrickx (E., M.); - sp.a: Mr Martens (B.), Verlinden (A.,M.), Rate (P.), Van Gool (G.,L.), Marnef (P.,P.), Bulbs (S.,H.), Van Espen (E.), Kota (A.), De Maeyer (S.,J.), Melis-De Lamper (D.,P.), Van der Elst (G.), Dieltjens (M.,J.), Ms Madereel (E.,G.); - N-VA: Klaps (J.,M.), Verbist (E., J.), Van der Donkt (W.), De Cuyper (J.,W.), None (G.,M.), Janssens (C.,F.), Wevers (W.), Provide (E.,C.), De Bode (H.,A.), Van Paesschen (C., K.), Robbens (C.,F.), Scale (Th.), Geeraerts (C.,N.); - CD&V: Schroons (W.,J.), Weckhuysen (W.,R.), De Cleyn (E.,L.), Mr Verboven (K.,I.), Janssens (E.), Bouquillon (S.,M.), Van Hove (I.), Struyf (M.,G.), Andriessen (N.), Ibrahimi (J.), Meulders (C.), Hulin (G.,N.), Bollaert (W.)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u40	- Green: Heiremans (K.), Fathi (O.), De Bie (M.,M.), Verrelst (Ch., A.), Janssens (Ch., M.), Van Hoffelen (K.), Heylen (L.,M.), Deroy (E.), Syed Riaz (H.), De Backer (L.,L.), Van den Borne (T.,J.), Apers (L.,L.), Van Bel (T.,L.); - Flemish Interest: Penris (J.,W.), Creyelman-Spitael (M.,G.), De Winter (S.,R.), Walschaerts (W.,A.), Limbourg (V.,M.), Van Akeleyen (Ch., P.), Cleymans (A., J.), Boudewijns (Y.,L.), Mr Schroyens (M.,C.), van Craenenbroeck (L.,M.), Moeyersons (J.), Huijbrechts (E.,J.), Leffelaer (J., E.); - Open Vld: Wilrycx (F.,F.), Stokmans (A., E.), Avontrodt (Y.,M.), Mr Leyzen (S.,M.), Houdet (E.,M.), Gysels (K.,J.), Guldentops (L.,M.), Willemse (R.,A.), Vercammen (N.), Peeters (J.,M.), Heiremans (T., Y.), Cleymans (R.,J.), Hendrickx (E., M.); - sp.a: Mr Martens (B.), Verlinden (A.,M.), Rate (P.), Van Gool (G.,L.), Marnef (P.,P.), Bulbs (S.,H.), Van Espen (E.), Kota (A.), De Maeyer (S.,J.), Melis-De Lamper (D.,P.), Van der Elst (G.), Dieltjens (M.,J.), Ms Madereel (E.,G.); - N-VA: Klaps (J.,M.), Verbist (E., J.), Van der Donkt (W.), De Cuyper (J.,W.), None (G.,M.), Janssens (C.,F.), Wevers (W.), Provide (E.,C.), De Bode (H.,A.), Van Paesschen (C., K.), Robbens (C.,F.), Scale (Th.), Geeraerts (C.,N.); - CD&V: Schroons (W.,J.), Weckhuysen (W.,R.), De Cleyn (E.,L.), Mr Verboven (K.,I.), Janssens (E.), Bouquillon (S.,M.), Van Hove (I.), Struyf (M.,G.), Andriessen (N.), Ibrahimi (J.), Meulders (C.), Hulin (G.,N.), Bollaert (W.)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u41	- Open Vld: Vereeck (L.,M.), Mr Caerts (V.,F.), Feytons (J.,H.), Trousers (L.,A.), Mr Chombar (F.,M.), Versavel (M.,F.), Guido (F.,R.); - sp.a: Yzermans (A.,L.), Carlier (B.,C.), Claes (H., V.), Deneuker (D.,J.), Bruno (A.), Vrancken (J.,J.), Kaur (P.); - N-VA: Raskin (W.), Gijbels (F.), Vanhorenbeek (B.), Claes (M.), Penxten (M.,J.), Vermeulen (M.,M.), Joosten (P.,M.); - CD&V: Vananroye (N.,E.), Mr Thijsen (T.,Y.), Haeldermans (G.,L.), Mr Moors (I.,P.), Theuwis (L.,L.), Henrotte (K., J.), Van Roelen (E.)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u42	- Open Vld: Vereeck (L.,M.), Mr Caerts (V.,F.), Feytons (J.,H.), Trousers (L.,A.), Mr Chombar (F.,M.), Versavel (M.,F.), Guido (F.,R.); - sp.a.: Yzermans (A.,L.), Carlier (B.,C.), Claes (H.,V.), Deneuker (D.,J.), Bruno (A.), Vrancken (J.,J.), Kaur (P.); - N-VA: Raskin (W.), Gijbels (F.), Vanhorenbeek (B.), Claes (M.), Penxten (M.,J.), Vermeulen (M.,M.), Joosten (P.,M.); - CD&V: Vananroye (N.,E.), Mr Thijsen (T.,Y.), Haeldermans (G.,L.), Mr Moors (I.,P.), Theuwis (L.,L.), Henrotte (K., J.), Van Roelen (E.) Those elected shall be included in the parliamentary document DOC 54 0001/001-2014 (BZ), which was made available to you. These elected representatives are included in the parliamentary document DOC 54 0001/001-2014 (SE) which has been made available to you. As the following objections were raised against the electoral procedures: As the following claims have been filed against the electoral process:
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u43	As Mr Filip Gressens, in his e-mail of 27 May 2014, notes: that on 25 May 2014 he found that a person who, according to his observation, was not in possession of a notice of call nor on the electoral list was present or registered was nevertheless admitted to the vote by the aforementioned electoral office, while he himself or in order to be able to vote with power to complete and submit all kinds of formalities and documents to the electoral bureau, and therefore considers that that person has taken an unlawful part in the vote, Since, in his e-mail of 27 May 2014, Mr. Filip Gressens points out: On 25 May 2014, he found that a person who, according to what he was able to observe, was not in possession of a summons and was not or was not on the list of electors, was nevertheless allowed to vote by the above-mentioned polling station; whereas in order to be able to vote himself or by proxy, he must complete a series of formalities and documents and present them to the polling station. He therefore considers that this person unlawfully took part in the ballot, Whereas the minutes of voting by the Bureau of the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities and in the Official Journal of the European Communities; 52 where the contested electoral procedure took place does not mention the incident, Considering that the minutes of the election operations of polling station No. 52, in which the contested electoral operation took place, do not mention this incident, Whereas, in accordance with the minutes, a witness attended the elections at the abovementioned polling station and did not make any comments, Considering that, in accordance with the minutes, a witness attended the election operations at the above-mentioned polling station and that the latter also did not make observations, Consequently, your committee dismisses the objection cited as unfounded. Your commission therefore declares the above-mentioned claim unfounded.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u44	Since Mr Jozef Peeters complained in his letter of 17 June 2014 that he had not been able to exercise his right to vote, because he believed that there was a propaganda provocation and cooperation clause at the entrance to the electoral office and in the electoral room, he considered that this was a breach of electoral secrecy and that there was an obstacle and threat to the seeker and himself in particular, and therefore, in the main order, he asked for the annulment of the elections of 25 May 2014 and in particular of the electoral procedures of the polling office No. 12 from the electoral canton of Bree, Given that Mr. Jozef Peeters, in his letter of 17 June 2014, complained that he could not exercise his duty to vote, given that at the entrance of the polling station and the polling station, there was, according to him, "propagandist provocation and crowding". He was of the view that the secrecy of the vote had therefore been violated and that that constituted an obstacle and a threat to all and to him in particular. For this reason, as a main reason, he requested the annulment of the elections of 25 May 2014 and in particular of the electoral operations of polling station No. 12 of the electoral canton of Bree. Whereas the minutes of voting by the Bureau of the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities and in the Official Journal of the European Communities; 12 where the facts at issue would have taken place, does not mention them, Considering that the minutes of the election operations of polling station No. 12 where the contested facts had taken place contain no mention in this regard, Consequently, your committee dismisses the objection cited as unfounded. Your commission therefore declares the above-mentioned claim unfounded. Having regard to the fact that the minutes of general assembly of the electoral headquarters' votes do not give rise to any comments, Considering that the minutes of the general census of votes of the Chief Electoral Officers are not the subject of any comment, Having regard to the report of the College of Experts in charge of the audit of the electronic voting and voting system of 19 June 2014 (Doc 54 0014/001-2014 BZ), Considering the report of the College of Experts on the Control of the Automated Voting and Counting System of 19 June 2014 (Doc 54 0014/001-2014 SE), As the elected representatives have demonstrated the conditions laid down in Article 64 of the Constitution, your committee considers that the credentials of the elected representatives of the electoral headquarters and of the successors of the members may be valid and proposes that they be admitted as titled members and successors respectively. Whereas the elected representatives have justified the conditions required by Article 64 of the Constitution, your Commission considers that the powers of the actual representatives and the alternates elected by the Main Electoral Offices should be validated and proposes to admit them respectively as an effective member and as an alternate member. It should be noted that Mrs Marijke Dillen, elected on List No. 3 (Flemish Interest) as a member of the Chamber, for the constituency of Antwerp, has waived her mandate by letter dated 16 June 2014. It is therefore replaced by the first successor, in particular Mr Jan Penris. It should be noted that Ms Marijke Dillen, elected to the Chamber on List 3 (Vlaams Belang), for the electoral district of Antwerp, gave up her mandate by letter of 16 June 2014. It is therefore replaced as the holder by the first alternate, Mr Jan Penris. A member shall comment on the verification of credentials procedure and on the organisation of voting and, in particular, electronic voting. One member commented on the procedure for the verification of credentials and on the organization of voting, in particular with regard to electronic voting. Another member addresses the problem of Belgians voting abroad. Another member referred to the problem of voting by Belgians abroad. A third Member has comments on the issue of the right magnetic cards to European citizens. Finally, a third member commented on the issue of magnetic cards to European nationals.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u45	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? [[No]] We are voting on the conclusions of the second committee. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 132 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the conclusions of the second committee were adopted. Consequently, the conclusions of the second committee were adopted. I call on you to join the Chamber of Representatives, the elected representatives of the provinces of Antwerp and Limburg whose admission is proposed by the committee. I declare the elected representatives of the provinces of Antwerp and Limburg to be effective members of the House of Representatives, whose admission is proposed by the committee. In addition, I call for successors, those elected as such whose admission is proposed. I also declare the elected representatives proposed to be elected in that capacity. I invite the effective members, as well as the successors who replace the outgoing effective members, to take the following oath: 'I swear to comply with the Constitution'. I invite the actual members, as well as the alternate members to replace the actual members who have resigned, to take the following oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution".
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u46	I swear allegiance to Flanders and the Flemish people.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u47	The oath is not valid. I'm asking you to do it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to report to the Third Committee on the Verification of Credentials for the West Flanders and Luxembourg constituencies. Mr Koen Geens was chairman, the committee also consisted of Mr Vandenput, Mr De Wever, Mr Van de Velde, Mr Vuye, Mrs Gerkens and your rapporteur. Ladies and gentlemen, your committee was instructed today, Thursday 19 June 2014, by the plenary to communicate its conclusions on the validity of the electoral process for the full renewal of the Chamber of Representatives of 25 May last in the constituencies of West Flanders and Luxembourg and on the validity of the credentials of the elected representatives of the people and their successors elected there. Ladies and gentlemen, your committee was instructed by the plenary meeting on Thursday, 19 June 2014, to report to it and to present its conclusions on the validity of the electoral operations for the full renewal of the House of Representatives of 25 May 2014 in the electoral districts of West Flanders and Luxembourg, as well as on the validity of the credentials of the actual and alternate representatives elected there. The electoral headquarters have appointed the following elected representatives: The Chief Electoral Officers have declared elected as effective members:
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u49	- Green: De Vriendt (W.,J.). - Open Vld: Van Quickenborne (V.,P.), Lahaye-Battheu (S.,A.); - sp.a: Vande Lanotte (J.,C.), Vanheste (A., Ch.), Top (A.,P.); - N-VA: Vermeulen (B.,G.), Dumery (D.,G.), Vercammen (J.), Degroote (K.,E.), Gantois (R.,P.), Capon (A.,S.); - CD&V: Bogaert (H.,F.), Muylle (N.,Ch.), Mr Deseyn (R.,R.), Demon (F., L.).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u50	- Green: De Vriendt (W.,J.). - Open Vld: Van Quickenborne (V.,P.), Lahaye-Battheu (S.,A.); - sp.a: Vande Lanotte (J.,C.), Vanheste (A., Ch.), Top (A.,P.); - N-VA: Vermeulen (B.,G.), Dumery (D.,G.), Vercammen (J.), Degroote (K.,E.), Gantois (R.,P.), Capon (A.,S.); - CD&V: Bogaert (H.,F.), Muylle (N.,Ch.), Mr Deseyn (R.,R.), Demon (F., L.). Choosing Circle Luxembourg: - MR: Piedboeuf (B.,R.); - PS: Pirlot (S.,R.); - cdH: Lutgen (B.,M.), Poncelet (I., J.).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u51	- MR: Piedboeuf (B.,R.); - PS: Pirlot (S.,R.); - cdH: Lutgen (B.,M.), Poncelet (I., J.). The following members-successors were also elected: The following were also elected as alternate members:
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u52	- Green: Vanacker (B.,R.), Dierickx (M.,M.), Descheemaeker (A.,M.), Six (S.), Cartigny (C.,J.), Mr Vanraepenbusch (I.,T.), Peirsegaele (T.,W.), Hardeman (P.,K.), Vangheluwe (R.,K.). - Open Vld: Dumarey (A.,N.), De Crom (S.,J.), Vancoillie (T.,B.), Verleye (F.,M.), Verhaeghe (B.,A.), Vandecasteele (K.,G.), Ahouna (M.), Galle (G.,J.), Denys-Windels (J.,G.); - sp.a: Lambrecht (A.,J.), Casier (Y.,J.), Vermeulen (K.,B.), De Block (F.,R.), Claeys (V.,M.), Ackein (K.,A.), Gougy (D.), Priem (H.,J.), Mertens (G.); - N-VA: Degrande (G.,C.), Mespreuve (S.,M.), Prime (M.), Van Bruwaene (J.,P.), Mr Callewaert (M.,A.), Devriendt (E., St.), Mr Stubbe (M.,I.), Daem (F.,J.), Bollaert (S.,A.); - CD&V: Slegers (B.,C.), Desmet (M.,B.), Castelyn (A., Ch.), Neirynck (J.,D.), Declercq (K.,R.), De Clercq (M.,M.), Ampe-Duron (F.,M.), Mr Laleman (D.,D.), De Langhe (P.).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u53	- Green: Vanacker (B.,R.), Dierickx (M.,M.), Descheemaeker (A.,M.), Six (S.), Cartigny (C.,J.), Mr Vanraepenbusch (I.,T.), Peirsegaele (T.,W.), Hardeman (P.,K.), Vangheluwe (R.,K.). - Open Vld: Dumarey (A.,N.), De Crom (S.,J.), Vancoillie (T.,B.), Verleye (F.,M.), Verhaeghe (B.,A.), Vandecasteele (K.,G.), Ahouna (M.), Galle (G.,J.), Denys-Windels (J.,G.); - sp.a: Lambrecht (A.,J.), Casier (Y.,J.), Vermeulen (K.,B.), De Block (F.,R.), Claeys (V.,M.), Ackein (K.,A.), Gougy (D.), Priem (H.,J.), Mertens (G.); - N-VA: Degrande (G.,C.), Mespreuve (S.,M.), Prime (M.), Van Bruwaene (J.,P.), Mr Callewaert (M.,A.), Devriendt (E., St.), Mr Stubbe (M.,I.), Daem (F.,J.), Bollaert (S.,A.); - CD&V: Slegers (B.,C.), Desmet (M.,B.), Castelyn (A., Ch.), Neirynck (J.,D.), Declercq (K.,R.), De Clercq (M.,M.), Ampe-Duron (F.,M.), Mr Laleman (D.,D.), De Langhe (P.).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u54	- MR: Collard (D.,J.), Mathieu (G.,R.), Nizet (S.,A.), Goffin-Albert (S.,M.), Gillard (D.,P.), Baillieux (A., A.); - PS: Sonnet (M.,F.), Ledder (D.,H.), Carrier (J.-M.), Istace (F.,R.), Feller (L.), Colas-Crucitti (L.); - cdH: Goffinet (A.C.), Gregoire (N.,J.), Hannard (M.E.), Meyer (J.-M.), Michel (S.,J.), De Corte (N.,M.).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u55	- MR: Collard (D.,J.), Mathieu (G.,R.), Nizet (S.,A.), Goffin-Albert (S.,M.), Gillard (D.,P.), Baillieux (A.,A.); - PS: Sonnet (M.,F.), Ledder (D.,H.), Carrier (J.-M.), Istace (F.,R.), Feller (L.), Colas-Crucitti (L.); - cdH: Goffinet (A.C.), Gregoire (N.,J.), Hannard (M.E.), Meyer (J.-M.), Michel (S.,J.), De Corte (N.,M.). Those elected shall be included in the parliamentary document DOC 54 0001/001-2014 (BZ) made available to you. These elected representatives are included in the parliamentary document DOC 54 0001/001-2014 (SE) which has been made available to you. As no objection was raised against the electoral procedures in the West Flanders constituency; Whereas no complaints have been lodged against the electoral operations in the electoral district of West Flanders; As no objection was raised against the electoral procedures in the Luxembourg constituency; Whereas no complaints have been lodged against the electoral operations in the electoral district of Luxembourg; Having regard to the fact that the minutes of general assembly of the votes of the constituency headquarters of West Flanders do not give rise to any comments, Considering that the minutes of the general census of votes of the Main Electoral Office of West Flanders are not the subject of any comment, Having regard to the fact that the minutes of general assembly of the votes of the Luxembourg electoral headquarters state that, following the explanations provided by the Home Office Office, two votes allocated to the PS cannot be validated in the Durbuy canton due to computer problems. Taking into account the extremely limited impact of 0.03 % on the results in the Durbuy canton, the Bureau decided to adjust the figures and validate the new figures provided by the Home Office, Considering that the minutes of the general census of votes of the Luxembourg Main Electoral Office state that, following the explanations provided by the Internal FPS, two votes allocated to the PS cannot be validated in the canton of Durbuy due to computer problems. In view of the extremely limited impact of 0.03% on the outcome of the canton of Durbuy, the Bureau decided to modify and validate the new figures provided by the Inland FPS, Having regard to the letters of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for the Interior and Equal Opportunities of 6 and 16 June 2014 addressed to the President of the Chamber of Representatives on the validation procedure of the vote and information on the IT bug and their annexes, Considering the letters dated 6 and 16 June 2014 from the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior and Equal Opportunities, addressed to the President of the House of Representatives, concerning the voting validation procedure and information on the computer bug and its annexes, Having regard to the report of the College of Experts in charge of the audit of the electronic voting and voting system of 19 June 2014 (Doc 54 0014/001-2014 BZ), Considering the report of the College of Experts on the Control of the Automated Voting and Counting System of 19 June 2014 (Doc 54 0014/001-2014 SE), A member points out that the letters of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for the Interior remain unclear as regards the explanations given in relation to electronic voting and control and certification bodies. One member pointed out that the letters from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior left a shadow of explanations given in response to problems with electronic voting, monitoring and certification bodies. As the elected representatives have demonstrated the conditions laid down in Article 64 of the Constitution, your committee considers that the credentials of the elected representatives of the electoral headquarters and of the successors of the members may be valid and proposes that they be admitted as titled members and successors respectively. Given that the elected representatives have justified the conditions required by Article 64 of the Constitution, your Commission considers that the powers of the actual representatives and the alternates elected by the main electoral district offices should be validated and proposes to admit them respectively as an effective member and as an alternate member.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u56	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? We are voting on the conclusions of the third committee. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 123 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the conclusions of the Third Committee were adopted. Consequently, the conclusions of the third committee are adopted. I call on you to join the Chamber of Representatives, the elected representatives of the provinces of West Flanders and Luxembourg whose admission is proposed by the committee. I declare the elected representatives of the provinces of West Flanders and Luxembourg to be effective members of the House of Representatives, whose admission is proposed by the committee. In addition, I call for successors, those elected as such whose admission is proposed. I also declare the elected representatives proposed to be elected in that capacity. I invite the effective members, as well as the successors who replace the outgoing effective members, to take the following oath: 'I swear to comply with the Constitution'. I invite the actual members, as well as the alternate members to replace the actual members who have resigned, to take the following oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution".
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you the report of the Fourth Committee on Credentials and Immunities for the East Flanders and Walloon Brabant constituencies. Mr Elio Di Rupo was present as chairman, Mrs Özlem Özen, Mr Peter De Roover, Mrs Monica De Coninck, Mrs Véronique Caprasse, Mr Peter Buysrogge and myself. Your committee was instructed today, Thursday 19 June 2014, by the plenary to communicate its conclusions on the validity of the electoral process for the full renewal of the Chamber of Representatives of 25 May 2014 in the East Flanders and Walloon Brabant constituencies, and on the validity of the credentials of the elected representatives of the people and their successors elected there. Your commission was instructed by the plenary meeting on Thursday, 19 June 2014, to report to it and to present its conclusions on the validity of the electoral operations for the full renewal of the House of Representatives of 25 May 2014 in the electoral districts of East Flanders and Walloon Brabant, as well as on the validity of the credentials of the actual and alternate representatives elected there. The electoral headquarters have elected the following elected representatives of the people: The Chief Electoral Officers have declared elected as effective members:
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u58	- Green: Van Hecke (S.), Willaert (E.,M.); - Flemish Interest: Pas (B.,G.). - Open Vld: De Croo (A.,F.), Van Cauter (C., E., J.), Mr Lachaert (E.,R.), Somers (I., F., F.); - sp.a: Temmerman (K.,H.), Van der Maelen (D.,L.), Pehlivan (F.); - N-VA: Bracke (S.,T.), Smeyers (S.,A.), Dedecker (P.), Buysrogge (P.,A.), Uyttersprot (G.), D'Haese (Ch.,E.); - CD&V: The Crem (P.,F.), Dierick (L.,Ch.), Vercamer (S.), Yüksel (V.);
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u59	- Green: Van Hecke (S.), Willaert (E.,M.); - Flemish Interest: Pas (B.,G.). - Open Vld: De Croo (A. ,F.), Mr Van Cauter (C. , E.,J.) , Mr Lachaert (E. ,R.), Mr Somers (I. , F., F. ); - sp.a: Temmerman (K.,H.), Van der Maelen (D.,L.), Mr Pehlivan (F.) ; - N-VA: Bracke (S.,T.), Smeyers (S.,A.), Dedecker (P.), Buysrogge (P.,A.), Uyttersprot (G.), D'Haese (Ch.,E.); - CD&V: The Crem (P.,F.), Dierick (L.,Ch.), Vercamer (S.), Yüksel (V.);
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u60	- MR: Michel (Ch.,Y.), of Coster-Bauchau (M.,S.), Burton (E.,Ch.); Cheron (M.,C.); - PS: Flahaut (A.,M.);
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u61	- MR: Michel (Ch.,Y.), of Coster-Bauchau (M.,S.), Burton (E.,Ch.); Cheron (M.,C.); - PS: Flahaut (A.,M.); The following members-successors were also elected: The following were also elected as alternate members:
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u62	- Green: Van Braeckevelt (B.,D.), Stroobandt (Ch.,R.), Vermeulen (A.), Germonpré (A., C.), De Veylder (F.,C.), Van Herreweghe (M.-J.), Roman (K.,R.), Heestermans (B.), The White (T.), Charles (M.,W.), De Wilde (M.,W); - Flemish Interest: Creyelman (S.,P.), Van Nieuwenhove (D.), Impens (K.,H.), Mr Morel (I-M.), Mr Beheyt (P.,G.), Mr Rédelé (M.,B.), Daman (J.,C.), Vercammen (J.), Hebbrecht (K.), Remory (A.), Geers (G.,R.). - Open Vld: Gabriels (K.,G.), Vander Meeren (L.,J.), De Schryver (E., M.), Taylor (K.,H.), Fontaine (V.,M.), Nicque (S., E.), Sierens (E.,S.), Prové (J.), Deputy (T.,M.), De Waele (W.,P.), De Rubbel (M.,C.); - sp.a: Van de Putte (S.), Vanrobaeys (A.,M.), Meuleman (B.,C.), Vanden Bossche (D.), Van Cronenburg (R.,J.), Mr Camu (S.,S.), Vonck (L.), Wyffels (E.,K.), Vercoutere (S.), Roegiest (W.,R.), Staut (P.,A); - N-VA: Maenhout (N.,M.), D'Haenens (K.,A.), Henne (M.,E.), Claus (J., L.), Mr Bauwens (L., E.), Rogiers (E.,F.), Jaques (J.), Tindemans (E.,M.), Himpe (L.,B.), Bogaert (G.), Verhamme (M.,J.); - CD&V: Claerhout (S.), Van Peteghem (V.,C.), Van den Berghe (S.,J.), Verzele (J.,W.), De Spiegelaere (C.,M.), Schelstraete (G.,G.), Van Caenegem (A., A.), Dessimpel-Famaey (L.), Lescrauwaet (C.,F.), Uytdenhouwen (J., M.), Herremans (R.,C.);
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u63	- Green: Van Braeckevelt (B.,D.), Stroobandt (Ch.,R.), Vermeulen (A.), Germonpré (A., C.), De Veylder (F.,C.), Van Herreweghe (M.-J.), Roman (K.,R.), Heestermans (B.), The White (T.), Charles (M.,W.), De Wilde (M.,W); - Flemish Interest: Creyelman (S.,P.), Van Nieuwenhove (D.), Impens (K.,H.), Mr Morel (I-M.), Mr Beheyt (P.,G.), Mr Rédelé (M.,B.), Daman (J.,C.), Vercammen (J.), Hebbrecht (K.), Remory (A.), Geers (G.,R.). - Open Vld: Gabriels (K.,G.), Vander Meeren (L.,J.), De Schryver (E., M.), Taylor (K.,H.), Fontaine (V.,M.), Nicque (S., E.), Sierens (E.,S.), Prové (J.), Deputy (T.,M.), De Waele (W.,P.), De Rubbel (M.,C.); - sp.a: Van de Putte (S.), Vanrobaeys (A.,M.), Meuleman (B.,C.), Vanden Bossche (D.), Van Cronenburg (R.,J.), Mr Camu (S.,S.), Vonck (L.), Wyffels (E.,K.), Vercoutere (S.), Roegiest (W.,R.), Staut (P.,A); - N-VA: Maenhout (N.,M.), D'Haenens (K.,A.), Henne (M.,E.), Claus (J., L.), Mr Bauwens (L., E.), Rogiers (E.,F.), Jaques (J.), Tindemans (E.,M.), Himpe (L.,B.), Bogaert (G.), Verhamme (M.,J.); - CD&V: Claerhout (S.), Van Peteghem (V.,C.), Van den Berghe (S.,J.), Verzele (J.,W.), De Spiegelaere (C.,M.), Schelstraete (G.,G.), Van Caenegem (A., A.), Dessimpel-Famaey (L.), Lescrauwaet (C.,F.), Uytdenhouwen (J., M.), Herremans (R.,C.);
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u64	- MR: Scourneau (V.,A.), Kaisin (B.,C), Kubla (S.), Rotthier (L.,N.), Murice (J.,L.), Gijsemberg (C.,M.); - Ecolo: De Brouwer (V.Y.), Jamar (L.M.), Ricour (J.,L.), Moutquin (S.,F.), Caels (J.,L.) De Riemaecker (Ph., M.) . - PS: Crusnière (S.,J.), Corthouts (M.,L.), Evrard (I.,M.), Vandenberg (E.J.), Cost (V.,L.), Conrath (D.,R.);
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u65	- MR: Scourneau (V.,A.), Kaisin (B.,C), Kubla (S.), Rotthier (L.,N.), Murice (J.,L.), Gijsemberg (C.,M.); - Ecolo: De Brouwer (V.Y.), Jamar (L.M.), Ricour (J.,L.), Moutquin (S.,F.), Caels (J.,L.) De Riemaecker (Ph., M.). - PS: Crusnière (S., J.), Corthouts (M.,L.), Mr Evrard (I-M.), Vandenberg (E., J.), Devis (V.,L.), Conrath (D.,R.); Those elected shall be included in the parliamentary document DOC 54 0001/001-2014 (BZ), which was made available to you. These elected representatives are included in the parliamentary document DOC 54 0001/001-2014 (SE) which has been made available to you. A member of our committee regrets that ballot papers were found in a garbage can in a polling station in the East Flanders constituency. One member deplored and regretted that in a polling station in the electoral district of East Flanders, ballot papers had been found in a trash can. However, since no objection was raised against the electoral procedures in the East Flanders and Walloon Brabant constituencies; Whereas no complaints were lodged against the electoral operations in the electoral districts of East Flanders and Walloon Brabant; Having regard to the fact that the minutes of general assembly of the electoral headquarters of East Flanders and Walloon Brabant do not give rise to any comments; Considering that the minutes of the general census of votes of the Main Electoral Office of East Flanders and the Main Electoral Office of Walloon Brabant are not the subject of any comment; Having regard to the report of the College of Experts in charge of the audit of the electronic voting and voting system of 19 June 2014 (Doc 54 0014/001-2014 BZ); Considering the report of the College of Experts on the Control of the Automated Voting and Counting System of 19 June 2014 (Doc 54 0014/001-2014 SE); Since the elected representatives have demonstrated the conditions laid down by Article 64 of the Constitution, Whereas the elected representatives have justified the conditions required by article 64 of the Constitution; I Your committee believes that the credentials of elected representatives and successors by the electoral headquarters may be recognised and proposes that they should be admitted as titled members and successors respectively. Your Commission believes that the powers of the actual representatives and of the other alternates proclaimed by the main electoral district offices should be validated and proposes to admit them respectively as an effective member and as an alternate member.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u66	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? We are voting on the conclusions of the Fourth Committee. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the conclusions of the Fourth Committee were adopted. The conclusions of the fourth committee are therefore adopted. I call on you to join the Chamber of Representatives, the elected representatives of the province of East Flanders and Walloon Brabant whose admission is proposed by the committee. I declare the elected representatives of the province of East Flanders and Walloon Brabant to be effective members of the House of Representatives, whose admission is proposed by the committee. In addition, I call for successors, those elected as such whose admission is proposed. I also declare the elected representatives proposed to be elected in that capacity. I invite the effective members, as well as the successors who replace the outgoing effective members, to take the following oath: 'I swear to comply with the Constitution'. I invite the actual members, as well as the alternate members to replace the actual members who have resigned, to take the following oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution".
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring to you the report of the Fifth Committee on Credentials and Immunities: the electoral circles of Hainaut and Flemish Brabant. Mr Geerts, Mr Christoph D'Haese, Mrs Grovonius, myself as rapporteur, Mr Vercammen, Mr Carcaci and Mr Luykx were present. Ladies and gentlemen, your committee was instructed today, Thursday 19 June 2014, to report to the plenary and to communicate its conclusions on the validity of the electoral process for the full renewal of the Chamber of Representatives of 25 May last in the Heingouwen and Vlaams-Brabant constituencies and on the validity of the credentials of the elected representatives of the people and their successors who were elected there. Your commission was instructed by the plenary meeting on Thursday, 19 June 2014, to report to it and to present its conclusions on the validity of the electoral operations for the full renewal of the House of Representatives on 25 May 2014 in the electoral districts of Hainaut and Flemish Brabant, as well as on the validity of the credentials of the actual and alternate representatives elected there. Your committee has taken note of the judgment of the Bergen Court of Appeal of 5 May 2014, in which Mr Salvatore Nicotra's appeal against the decision of the head office of the Hainaut constituency to reject the established list of FN-belge is dismissed. Your Commission has taken note of the judgment of the Mons Court of Appeal of 5 May 2014, in which the appeal of Mr. Salvatore Nicotra against the decision of the main office of the district of Hainaut to dismiss the FN-Belgian list is declared inadmissible. The electoral headquarters have appointed the following elected representatives: The Chief Electoral Officers have declared elected as effective members:
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u68	- MR: Chastel (O.), Marghem (M.-Ch.), Ducrame (D.,G.), Flahaux (J.-J., F), Friart (B.,Y.); - Ecolo: Nollet (J.-M.); - PS: Di Rupo (E.), Özen (Ö.), Senesael (D.,H.), Winckel (F.J.), Thiébaut (E.), Devin (L.,M.), Massin (E.,F.), Blanchart (Ph.,R.), Delannois (P.O.); - cdH: Fonck (C.,M.), Brotcorne (Ch.,R.); - PTB-GO!: Van Hees (M.,G.).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u69	- MR: Chastel (O.), Marghem (M.-Ch.), Ducarme (D.,G.), Flahaux (J.-J.,F), Friart (B.,Y.); - Ecolo: Nollet (J.-M.); - PS: Di Rupo (E.), Özen (Ö.), Senesael (D.,H.), Winckel (F.,J.), Thiébaut (E.), Devin (L.,M.), Massin (E.,F.), Blanchart (Ph.,R.), Delannois (P.-O.); - cdH: Fonck (C.,M.), Brotcorne (Ch.,R.); - PTB-GO!: Van Hees (M.,G.).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u70	- Green: Dedrij (M.,A.). - Open Vld: De Block (M.,C.), Vandenput (T., V.), Ceysens (P.,J.) Van Biesen (L.,F.); - sp.a: Bonte (H.,J.), Jiroflée (K.,A.) [[;]] - N-VA: Francken (T.J.), Van Vaerenbergh (K.), Vuye (H.,A.), Tracks (J.,M.), De Coninck (I.); - CD&V: None (K., F.), Becq (S., V.) Van Rompuy (E.K.);
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u71	- Green: Dedrij (M.,A.) . - Open Vld: De Block (M.,C.), Vandenput (T., V.), Ceysens (P.,J.) Van Biesen (L.,F.); - sp.a: Bonte (H.,J.), Jiroflée (K.,A.); - N-VA: Francken (T.J.), Van Vaerenbergh (K.), Vuye (H.,A.), Tracks (J.,M.), De Coninck (I.); - CD&V: None (K., F.), Becq (S., V.) Van Rompuy (E.K.); The following members-successors were also elected: The following were also elected as alternate members:
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u72	- MR: Miller (R.,M.), Galant (I.), Leclercq (Ch.,G.), Feron (A.,I.), Moortgat (G.,J.), Pary-Mille (F.,C.), Seghin (Ph., A.), Mairy (D.,Gh.), Knoops (M.,H.), Soete (D.,R.); - Ecolo: Lefebvre (M.-Ch.), Wallemacq (H.,M.), Gaeremynck (Mr.), Macaluso (P.), Biset (F.,M.), Leroy (B.P.), Genette (A.,J.), Urban (J.), Van Dille (G.,H.), Lefèvre (H.); - PS: Henry (O., P.), Saudoyer (A.), Lepine (J.-P.), Roland (Mr.), Van de Weghe (B.,R.), Bangisa (S.,G.), Houdart (C.,I.), Daspremont (F.,E.), Movements (P.,M.), Goffinet (A.,C.); - cdH: Lavaux (D.), Dascotte (C.,M.), Goffart (E.,E.), Vandamme (M.,J.), Lecocq (A.), Hambye (G., F.), Castrique-Ghestem (S.,M.), Royez (S.), Osselaer (B.) Groals (J.C.); - PTB-GO!- No, no, no, no, Deceuninck (S.,R.), Renaux (J.,M.), Cirillo (L.), Callebaut (J., P.), Vanoncekelen (Y.,E.), Gilson (V.,M.), Stas (B.,R.), Mauroit (V), Keijzer (J.,H.), Secchi (W.).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u73	- MR: Miller (R.,M.), Galant (I.), Leclercq (Ch.,G.), Feron (A.,I.), Moortgat (G.,J.), Pary-Mille (F.,C.), Seghin (Ph.,A.), Mairy (D.,Gh.), Knoops (M.,H.), Soete (D.,R.); - Ecolo: Lefebvre (M.-Ch.), Wallemacq (H.,M.), Gaeremynck (M.,M.), Macaluso (P.), Biset (F.,M.), Leroy (B.,P.), Genette (A.,J.), Urbain (J.), Van Dille (G.,H.), Lefèvre (H.); - PS: Henry (O.,P.), Saudoyer (A.), Lepine (J.-P.), Roland (M.,M.), Van de Weghe (B.,R.), Bangisa (S.,G.), Houdart (C.,I.), Daspremont (F.,E.), Bougenies (P.,M.), Goffinet (A.,C.); - cdH: Lavaux (D.), Dascotte (C.,M.), Goffart (E.,E.), Vandamme (M.,J.), Lecocq (A.), Hambye (G., F.), Castrique-Ghestem (S.,M.), Royez (S.), Osselaer (B.) Groals (J.C.); - PTB-GO!- No, no, no, no, Deceuninck (S.,R.), Renaux (J.,M.), Cirillo (L.), Callebaut (J., P.), Vanoncekelen (Y.,E.), Gilson (V.,M.), Stas (B.,R.), Mauroit (V), Keijzer (J.,H.), Secchi (W.).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u74	- Green: Delbarre (A.,A.), Eggers (K.,K.), Gahy (S.), Van Camp (A.,J.), De Taeye (H.,M.), Vandewijngaerde (W.), De Jonge (J.), Fobelets (J.), Malfroy (E.). - Open Vld: Janssens (D.,R.), Willems (K.), Vandijck (P.,D.), Zelderloo (W.,H.), Deprecated (Ch., E.), Mr D. Herde (K.), Bonaventure (I.), Bigaré (T.), Hendrickx (W.,M.); - sp.a: Troch (T.,L.), Deprecated (B.), Us (N.), Allard (E.), Van Der Bracht (E.), De Groef (J.,P.), Shells (G.), Ausloos (K.), Demediate (B.); - N-VA: Hufkens (R.), Uyttersprot (G.), Slaus-Goethals (S.,H.), Shells (A.), Schouteden (M.,H.), Lories (J., M.), Roosen (Ph., A.), Vannetelbosch (F.), Coel (A.,H.); Van Hoof (E.,W.), Van Kemseke (P., L.), Eyskens (K.,R.), Poelaert (K.,G.), Vandenberg (H.), De Cupere (A.,T.), Segers (G.), Van Cutsem (P.,A.), Moens (E.);
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u75	- Green: Delbarre (A.,A.), Eggers (K.,K.), Gahy (S.), Van Camp (A.,J.), De Taeye (H.,M.), Vandewijngaerde (W.), De Jonge (J.), Fobelets (J.), Malfroy (E.). - Open Vld: Janssens (D.,R.), Willems (K.), Vandijck (P.,D.), Zelderloo (W.,H.), Deprecated (Ch., E.), Mr D. Herde (K.), Bonaventure (I.), Bigaré (T.), Hendrickx (W.,M.); - sp.a: Troch (T.,L.), Deprecated (B.), Us (N.), Allard (E.), Van Der Bracht (E.), De Groef (J.,P.), Shells (G.), Ausloos (K.), Demediate (B.); - N-VA: Hufkens (R.), Uyttersprot (G.), Slaus-Goethals (S.,H.), Shells (A.), Schouteden (M.,H.), Lories (J., M.), Roosen (Ph., A.), Vannetelbosch (F.), Coel (A.,H.); Van Hoof (E.,W.), Van Kemseke (P., L.), Eyskens (K.,R.), Poelaert (K.,G.), Vandenberg (H.), De Cupere (A.,T.), Segers (G.), Van Cutsem (P.,A.), Moens (E.); Those elected shall be included in the parliamentary document DOC 54 0001/001-2014 (BZ) made available to you. These elected representatives are included in the parliamentary document DOC 54 0001/001-2014 (SE) which has been made available to you. As the following objections were raised against the elections in the Hainaut constituency. Considering that the following claims were brought against the electoral operations in the district of Hainaut. By letters dated 28 May 2014, Ms Séverine Laurent, 1st effective candidate for list No. 32 P+, residing at 7080 Frameries, rue de la Verdure 12, and Mr Pierre Renversez, resident unknown, party chairman of Parti Plus (P+), lodged an objection to the elections in the Hainaut constituency requesting that they be declared invalid and that new elections be held there because in about two thirds of the polling rooms of the constituency the list of candidates was either not suspended or only incomplete, with the lists with a serial number higher than 30 missing. Whereas Ms. Séverine Laurent, 1st effective candidate on List No. 32 Parti Plus (P+), domiciled at 7080 Frameries, rue de la verdure 12, and Mr. Pierre Renversez, president of the Parti Plus (P+), whose domicile is not known, filed, by letters of May 28, 2014, a complaint against the electoral operations in the electoral district of Hainaut with a view to cancelling the results and carrying out a new ballot, because, in more or less two thirds of the polling stations in the electoral district of Hainaut, the posters on the lists of candidates were either absent or incomplete, meaning that the lists beyond number 30 were not posted; Whereas neither Mrs Laurent nor Mr Renversez give specific examples and no polling stations are mentioned where the irregularities would have occurred and the two objections therefore remain vague; Considering that neither Ms. Laurent nor Mr. Renversez gave specific examples and that the claims did not mention the polling stations in which those irregularities had been committed and that they were not therefore vague; Whereas the list of products listed in Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 is replaced by the following: 32 P+ received a total of 2 254 votes in the elections of 25 May last year while the electorate was 30 660 votes and the threshold of 5% of the valid votes to be allocated was 36 925 votes; Considering that in the elections of 25 May last year, the list No. 32 P+ received a total of 2,254 votes, whereas the electoral divider was 30,660 votes and that the threshold of 5 per cent of the valid votes cast for the allocation of seats was 36,925; Whereas the minutes of the canton headquarters of Frameries, the canton where Mrs Laurent's place of residence is, contain no comments on the absence or incomplete display of the list of candidates in the voting rooms and the minutes of the canton headquarters of Fontaine-l'Évêque, the canton where Mr Renversez's municipality is located; Whereas the minutes of the main office of the canton of Frameries, in which Mrs Laurent's domicile is situated, do not contain any remarks concerning the absence of posters of the lists of candidates or incomplete posters at the polling stations, and whereas the same applies to the main office of the canton of Fontaine-l'Évêque, in which Mr Renversez's domicile is situated; By letter dated 12 June 2014, Mr Laurent Louis, 1st effective candidate for list No. 28 Debout les Belges!, residing at 6110 Montigny le Tilleul, rue Coteaux du Tilleul 1B, in subsidiary order, as regards the Hainaut constituency, the recounting and analysis of the voided and blank votes requested and the determination of the correct number of votes in favour of Debout les Belges! which has been declared invalid; Whereas Mr Laurent Louis, the first effective candidate on list 28 Standing Belgians!, domiciled at 6110 Montigny le Tilleul, rue Coteaux du Tilleul 1B, by letter of 12 June 2014, requests in subsidiary order the recount and analysis of all ballots considered as white and/or null in the electoral district of Hainaut as well as the clarification of the exact number of ballots in favour of the list Standing Belgians! which have been considered invalid; Whereas a question for the recounting of ballots can only be prevented if the complainant can give specific facts showing that the result has been obtained by irregularities; Considering that any request for the recount of ballot papers may be accepted only if the claimant states specific facts demonstrating that the results obtained would be due to irregularities; Whereas Mr Louis's statement of objection is based on articles in the press or statements of witness a posteriori, without any reference to a report from a polling station or a voting office indicating the irregularity; Considering that Mr. Louis' claim is based on press clippings or ex post facto witness statements, without reference to a record of the polling station or counting which would have referred to any irregularity; Whereas the minutes of general addition of the votes of the Hainaut constituency do not contain any such observations; Considering that the minutes of the general census of votes of the Main Bureau of the electoral district of Hainaut do not contain any comments in this regard; By letter dated 16 June 2014, Mr Mischaël Modrikamen, 1st effective candidate for list No. 16 Parti Popular, residing at 1170 Watermaal-Bosvoorde, avenue du Houx 42, asked to proceed with the complete recount of the Hainaut constituency, the examination of the voided and blank votes to determine whether the Parti Popular in this category is not overrepresented. He also called for the abolition of the 5% electoral threshold of the valid votes to be admitted to the division of seats on account of the unconstitutional nature of the division of seats. Finally, he asked to be heard by the committee responsible for the verification of credentials. Whereas Mr. Mischaël Modrikamen, 1st effective candidate on list 16 Popular Party, domiciled at 1170 Watermael-Boitsfort, avenue du Houx 42, asks, by letter of 16 June 2014, for a complete recount in the constituency of Hainaut and a review of the votes considered null and void, in order to see if the Popular Party is not overrepresented in this category of votes. He also called for the removal of the 5 per cent threshold of valid votes for admission to the allocation of seats because of the unconstitutionality of the current system of allocation of seats. Finally, he called for a hearing by the Credentials Committee. Whereas the question of recounting follows from the limited difference in votes between the result of the Parti Populaire and the electoral threshold and that a limited difference in votes between the voting figure of a list and the votes required for a seat in itself is not sufficient to recount the votes; whereas the complaint does not contain any concrete indication indicating possible manipulations to the detriment of the complainant; Considering that the request for recount is based on the small difference between the result obtained by the People's Party and the electoral threshold; that, on its own, a small difference between the number of votes obtained by a list and the number of votes required to obtain a seat is not sufficient for a recount to be ordered; that the grievance is not based on any specific facts that would provide evidence of the existence of possible manipulations to the detriment of the claimant's list; Whereas the Constitutional Court, in its judgment No. 73/2003 of 26 May 2003 did not consider the 5% electoral threshold to be a disproportionate restriction of the proportional representation system; Whereas it is not for the Committee on Credentials to question the validity of the legal standards governing the electoral system; Considering that the Constitutional Court, in its Decision No. 73/2003 of 26 May 2003, did not consider the 5% electoral threshold to be a disproportionate limitation of proportional representation; Whereas it is not for the Credentials Committee to question the legal validity of the legislative rules laying down the procedures for the electoral system; Whereas neither the Constitution (Article 48) nor the Choice Code (Article 231) require the assemblers to hear the persons who have lodged a complaint; Considering that neither the Constitution (art. 48) nor the Electoral Code (art. 231) require the assemblies to hear persons who have lodged a complaint; Whereas it should be noted that a similar request was made following the 2010 elections and was then rejected; It should be noted that in the 2010 elections a similar request had been made; the request had been rejected; Whereas, finally, all documents relating to the complaints submitted are at the disposal of the members of the committee; Considering, finally, that all documents relating to the claims submitted are available to the members of the commission; Does your committee find the above objections unfounded? Your commission declares the above-mentioned claims unfounded. Since the following objection was lodged against the electoral procedures in the Flemish-Brabant constituency; Considering that the following claim was lodged against the electoral operations in the district of Flemish Brabant; By e-mail sent on 19 June 2014, Mr Lode Mommaerts asked for the annulment of the elections in the Canton of Aarschot due to the lack of accessibility of the polling stations 12 to 15 and the absence of the guarantee of a secret ballot in the polling station No. 13; Whereas, by complaint, sent by e-mail of 19 June 2014, Mr Lode Mommaerts, whose domicile is not known, asks for the cancellation of the elections in the canton of Aarschot because of the poor accessibility of polling stations Nos. 12 to 15 and the absence of the guarantee of the secrecy of voting in the office No. 13; Whereas the minutes of the polling bureau No. 13 indicates in its observations a lack of space and lack of curtains; Whereas the minutes of the polling station No. 13 mention, in its observations, a lack of space and the absence of curtains; Whereas the minutes of polling stations 12, 14 and 15 do not contain any comments on the accessibility of polling stations; That the minutes of polling stations Nos. 12, 14 and 15 make no observations regarding the accessibility of polling stations; Whereas the number of votes cast for the election of the Chamber in the office of the President of the Council of the European Communities; whereas the number of votes cast for the election of the Chamber in the office of the President of the Council of the European Communities; whereas the number of votes cast for the election of the Chamber of the President of the Council of the European Communities; whereas the number of votes cast for the election of the President of the Council of the European Communities; whereas the number of votes cast for the President of the Council of the European Communities; whereas the number of votes cast for the election of the Chamber of the President of the European Parliament of the European Communities; 13 ballots recorded are 639 and the total number of votes cast in the canton of Aarschot is 36 918 and a new election for That the number of ballots cast for the election of the House in polling station No. 13 is 639 and that the total number of ballots cast in the canton of Aarschot is 36,918; that a new election for the whole canton of Aarschot seems disproportionate; Does your committee consider the above objection to be unfounded? Your committee regrets, however, the absence of a guarantee of a secret ballot in the polling station No. 13. Your commission declares the above-mentioned claim unfounded. However, she deplored the absence of a guarantee of secrecy at Bureau No. 13. Having regard to the fact that the minutes of general assembly of the electoral headquarters' votes do not give rise to any comments; Considering that the minutes of the general census of votes of the chief electoral offices of the electoral districts are not the subject of any comment; Having regard to the letters of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for the Interior and Equal Opportunities of 6 and 16 June 2014, addressed to the President of the Chamber of Representatives concerning the election of the Chamber of Representatives of 25 May 2014, the validation procedure of the vote and the information on the "informatics bug' and their annexes; Considering the letters of 6 and 16 June 2014 from the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior and Equal Opportunities, addressed to the President of the House, concerning the elections of the House of Representatives of 25 May 2014, the procedure for the validation of the vote and information on the computer bug, as well as their annexes; Having regard to the report of the College of Experts in charge of the audit of the electronic voting and voting system of 19 June 2014 (Doc 54 0014/001-2014 BZ); Considering the report of the College of Experts on the Control of the Automated Voting and Counting System of 19 June 2014 (Doc 54 0014/001-2014 SE); Since the elected representatives have demonstrated the conditions laid down by Article 64 of the Constitution; Whereas the elected representatives have justified the conditions required by article 64 of the Constitution; Does your committee consider that the credentials of elected representatives and successors by the electoral headquarters should be valid and proposes that they should be admitted as titled members and successors respectively? Your Commission believes that the powers of the actual representatives and alternates elected by the main bureaus of the electoral districts should be validated and proposes to admit them respectively as an effective member and as an alternate member.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u76	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? We are voting on the conclusions of the Fifth Committee. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 126 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the conclusions of the Fifth Committee were adopted. Consequently, the conclusions of the Fifth Committee are adopted. I call on you to join the Chamber of Representatives, the elected representatives of the province of Flemish Brabant whose admission is proposed by the committee. I declare the elected members of the Brabant-Flamand province to be effective members of the House of Representatives, whose admission is proposed by the committee. In addition, I call for successors, those elected as such whose admission is proposed. I also declare the elected representatives proposed to be elected in that capacity. I invite the effective members, as well as the successors who replace the outgoing effective members, to take the following oath: 'I swear to comply with the Constitution'. I invite the actual members, as well as the alternate members to replace the actual members who have resigned, to take the following oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution".
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u77	I call upon the Members of the Chamber of Representatives, the elected representatives of the Province of Hainaut, whose admission is proposed by the Committee. I declare the elected representatives of the province of Hainaut to be effective members of the House of Representatives, whose admission is proposed by the commission. In addition, I call for successors, those elected as such whose admission is proposed. I also declare the elected representatives proposed to be elected in that capacity. I invite the effective members, as well as the successors who replace the outgoing effective members, to take the following oath: 'I swear to comply with the Constitution'. I invite the actual members, as well as the alternate members to replace the actual members who have resigned, to take the following oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution".
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u78	Mr Devin is apologised.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the report of the Sixth Credentials Committee for the electoral districts of Liège and Namur. Our president, Daniel Bacquelaine, was present. Emmanuel Burton, Philippe Blanchart, Marco Van Hees, David Clarinval, mevrouw Meryame Kitir and myself. Today, Thursday 19 June 2014, your committee was instructed by the plenary to communicate its conclusions on the validity of the electoral process for the full renewal of the Chamber of Representatives of 25 May last in the Liège and Namur constituencies and on the validity of the credentials of the elected representatives of the people and their successors who were elected there. Your commission was instructed by the plenary meeting on Thursday, 19 June 2014, to report to it and to present its conclusions on the validity of the electoral operations for the full renewal of the House of Representatives of 25 May 2014 in the electoral districts of Liège and Namur and on the validity of the powers of the actual and alternate representatives elected there. The electoral headquarters have appointed the following elected representatives: The Chief Electoral Officers have declared elected as effective members:
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u80	- MR: Bacquelaine (D.,M.), Jadin (K.,A.), Goffin (P.,G.), Foret (G.,Ph.), Cassart-Mailleux (C.,M.); - Ecolo: Gerkens (M.,I.); - PS: Demeyer (W.,L.), Fernandez Fernandez (J.,R.), Mathot (A.), Daerden (F., Ch.), Frédéric (A.,L.); - cdH: Wathelet (M.,H.), Matz (V.,M.); - People's Party: Carcaci (A.); - PTB-GO!: Hedebouw (R.,A.).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u81	- MR: Bacquelaine (D.,M.), Jadin (K.,A.), Goffin (P.,G.), Foret (G.,Ph.), Cassart-Mailleux (C.,M.); - Ecolo: Gerkens (M.,I.); - PS: Demeyer (W.,L.), Fernandez Fernandez (J.,R.), Mathot (A.), Daerden (F., Ch.), Frédéric (A.,L.); - cdH: Wathelet (M.,H.), Matz (V.,M.); - People's Party: Carcaci (A.); - PTB-GO!: Hedebouw (R.,A.).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u82	- MR: Clarinval (D.,Ch.), Thoron (St.,F.); - Ecolo: Gilkinet (G.,M.); - PS: Delizée (J.-M.), Grovonius (G.); - cdH: Dispa (B.,B.).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u83	- MR: Clarinval (D.,Ch.), Thoron (St.,F.); - Ecolo: Gilkinet (G.,M.); - PS: Delizée (J.-M.), Grovonius (G.); - cdH: Dispa (B.,B.). The following members-successors were also elected: The following were also elected as alternate members:
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u84	- MR: Gustin (L.,L.), Iker (L.,E.), Bourlet (M.,D.), Wertz (A.,A.), Firquet (K.,A.), Meurens (J.,C.), Delvaux (L., A.), Gilbert (Ch.,J.), Tosi (K.,M.); - Ecolo: Castelain (P.,F.), Morael (J.,D.), Schlitz (S.,C.), Moukkas (A.), Demeuse (R.,P.), Eyckmans (G.,L.), Reginster-Bous (M.,M.), Dechamp (E.), Ravone (J.-F.); - PS: Musin (L.,M.), Chabot (J.,A.), Ben Achor (M.), Abad-Perick (M.,F.), Mr Humblet (I-C.), Mr Klenkenberg (C.,H.), Godfriend (M.,P.), Benvegna (G.,F.), Coir (N.); - CDH: de Lamotte (M.,J.), Tounquet (A.,J.), Grosch (M.,J), De Jonghe (S.,J.), Seronvalle (L., F.), Depirous (H.,J.), Lamalle (Ph.,N.), Dalem (V.,M.), Halin (C.,C.); - People's Party: Richard (A.,G.), Lombardo (O.), Rousseau (P.,D.), Michotte (M.,H.), Mathieu (M.C.), Dervin (J., P.), Pirmolin (G.,R.), Bajot (H.,A.), Hipnarowicz (A.,I.); - PTB-GO!- No, no, no, no, Bernard (A.,J.), Gomez Garcia (A.), Thomas (A.,M.), Liradelfo (J.,J.), Lacomble (C.,J.), Gérard (A.,M.), Vandamme (G.,M.), Van Cauwenberghe (V.,Y.), Demyttenaere (R.,I.).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u85	- MR: Gustin (L.,L.), Iker (L.,E.), Bourlet (M.,D.), Wertz (A.,A.), Firquet (K.,A.), Meurens (J.,C.), Delvaux (L., A.), Gilbert (Ch.,J.), Tosi (K.,M.); - Ecolo: Castelain (P.,F.), Morael (J.,D.), Schlitz (S.C.), Moukkas (A.), Demeuse (R.,P.), Eyckmans (G.,L.), Reginster-Bous (Mr.), Dechamp (E.), Ravone (J.-F.); - PS: Musin (L.,M.), Chabot (J.,A.), Ben Achour (M.), Abad-Perick (M.,F.), Humblet (I.,C.), Klenkenberg (C.,H.), Goddevrind (M.,P.), Benvegna (G.,F.), Coir (N.); - CDH: de Lamotte (M.,J.), Tounquet (A.,J.), Grosch (M.,J), De Jonghe (S.,J.), Seronvalle (L., F.), Depirous (H.,J.), Lamalle (Ph.,N.), Dalem (V.,M.), Halin (C.,C.); - People's Party: Richard (A.,G.), Lombardo (O.), Rousseau (P.,D.), Michotte (M.,H.), Mathieu (M.C.), Dervin (J., P.), Pirmolin (G.,R.), Bajot (H.,A.), Hipnarowicz (A.,I.); - PTB-GO!- No, no, no, no, Bernard (A.,J.), Gomez Garcia (A.), Thomas (A.,M.), Liradelfo (J.,J.), Lacomble (C.,J.), Gérard (A.,M.), Vandamme (G.,M.), Van Cauwenberghe (V.,Y.), Demyttenaere (R.,I.).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u86	- MR: Humblet (S.,J.), Lejeune-Gengoux (J., P.), Van Espen (M.,C.), Bombled (Ch.,Y.), Debehogne-Hance (V.,J.), Goda (A.,J.); - Ecolo: Cornet (C.,M.), Youngster (F.,I.), Henin (S.,J.), Mabille (A.,G.), Marriage (A.,A.)), Roegiers (H.); - PS: Notte (D.,O.), Leonard (V.E.), Lacroix (S.,A.), Deheneffe (M.,H.), Valange (O.,A.), Lalière-Mottard (N.,M.); - cdH: Botton-Milleux (Ch.,M.), Klein (D.,Cl.), Sohier (B.,G.), Bertrand (E.,R.), Plomteux (Ch.,F.), Noiret (Cl.,A.).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u87	- MR: Humblet (S.,J.), Lejeune-Gengoux (J., P.), Van Espen (M.,C.), Bombled (Ch.,Y.), Debehogne-Hance (V.,J.), Goda (A.,J.); - Ecolo: Cornet (C.,M.), Youngster (F.,I.), Henin (S.,J.), Mabille (A.,G.), Marriage (A.,A.)), Roegiers (H.); - PS: Notte (D.,O.), Leonard (V.E.), Lacroix (S.,A.), Deheneffe (M.,H.), Valange (O.,A.), Lalière-Mottard (N.,M.); - cdH: Botton-Milleux (Ch.,M.), Klein (D.,Cl.), Sohier (B.,G.), Bertrand (E.,R.), Plomteux (Ch.,F.), Noiret (Cl.,A.). Those elected shall be included in the parliamentary document DOC 54 0001/001-2014 (BZ) made available to you. These elected representatives are included in the parliamentary document DOC 54 0001/001-2014 (SE) which has been made available to you. Having regard to the fact that the following objections, which in the main order relate to the annulment of the entirety of the elections to the Chamber of 25 May 2014 and, in a supplementary order, to the annulment of the elections of 25 May 2014 to the Liège constituency, were lodged against electoral operations: Whereas the following main complaints concerning the annulment of all elections of 25 May 2014 for the Chamber and, in subsidiary order, the annulment of the elections of 25 May 2014 for the electoral district of Liège were brought against the electoral process:
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u88	Mr Philippe Chansay Wilmotte and Mr Damien Sougnez, dominated respectively in 4500 Hoei, chaussée de Liège 37, and 4870 Trooz, rue Biche les Prés 5A, by letter dated 4 June 2014; Ms Michèle Demoulin, domicilized in 1410 Waterloo, avenue Marie-Louise 7, by letter dated 5 June 2014, and Mr Rodolphe Mulle de Terschueren, domicilized in 1400 Nivelles, rue Auguste Lévêque 26, by letter dated 5 June 2014; they complain that the integrity of the vote was not guaranteed, given the frequent computer failures, the lack of protection measures to ensure the secrecy of voting and the non-compliance with different international standards in relation to the transparency of the election process. Mr Philippe Chansay Wilmotte and Mr Damien Sougnez, respectively domiciled at 4500 Huy, carriageway of Liège 37 and 4870 Trooz, rue Biche les Prés 5A, by letter of 4 June 2014; Mrs Michèle Demoulin, domiciled at 1410 Waterloo, avenue Marie-Louise 7, by letter of 5 June 2014 and Mr Rodolphe Mulle de Terschueren, domiciled at 1400 Nivelles, rue Auguste Levèque 26 by letter of 5 June 2014, complain that the integrity of the electoral process was not ensured due to numerous computer malfunctions, the absence of protective measures to ensure the secrecy of the votes and the non-compliance with various international standards relating to the transparency of the electoral process. By letter of 18 June 2014, the same applicants submitted an additional pleading which, in addition to the pleas already raised, alleged that Belgians residing abroad (Australia and Greece) did not receive the documents necessary to vote in good time. By letter of 18 June 2014, the same applicants filed an amplifying submission which, in addition to the development of the pleas already made, denounces the fact that Belgians residing abroad (Australia and Greece) did not receive their voting documents in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u89	Mr Benjamin Coenen and Mr Patrick Milland, with unknown residence, also complain by e-mail of 6 June 2014 that the integrity of the vote was not guaranteed, given the frequent IT incidents, the lack of protection measures to ensure the secrecy of the vote and the non-compliance with different international standards related to the transparency of the electoral process. Benjamin Coenen and Patrick Milland, whose home is not known, by e-mail of 6 June 2014, also complain that the integrity of the vote has not been respected in view of the numerous incidents of a computer nature, the absence of protective measures to ensure the secrecy of votes and the non-compliance with various international standards relating to the transparency of the electoral process. A. As regards admissibility A. Admissibility Whereas a first objection lodged by Valeurs Libérales Citoyennes (VLC) contains two different applicant residences. On page 1 of the appeal, the name Michèle Demoulin is mentioned while page 8 mentions the name Philippe Chansay Wilmotte; moreover, the objection does not contain any signature identifying the real applicant with certainty. Considering that a first claim filed by Civil Liberties Values (VLC) contains two different identities as claimants. Page 1 of the appeal indicates Ms. Michèle Demoulin's name, while page 8 indicates Mr. Philippe Chansay Wilmotte's name and does not contain a signature to identify the actual applicant with certainty. Whereas, as a result of the impossibility of identifying the applicant, such an application is inadmissible. Considering, therefore, that such a request is not admissible if it is impossible to identify the applicant. Whereas a second objection lodged by Valeurs Libérales Citoyennes (VLC) also contains two different applicant residences. On page 1 of the appeal, the name Mulle de Terschueren is mentioned while page 8 mentions the name Philippe Chansay Wilmotte; moreover, the objection does not contain any signature identifying the real applicant with certainty. Considering that a second claim filed by Civil Liberties Values (VLC) also contains two different identities as claimants. Page 1 of the appeal indicates the name of Mr. Mulle de Terschueren, while page 8 indicates the name of Mr. Philippe Chansay Wilmotte and does not contain a signature to identify the actual applicant with certainty. Whereas, as a result of the impossibility of identifying the applicant, such an application is inadmissible. Considering, therefore, that such a request is not admissible if it is impossible to identify the applicant. B. As far as land is concerned B. The substance
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u90	Lack of transparency of the electoral process and lack of an independent body to decide on the validity of the elections ▪ Lack of transparency in the electoral process and lack of an independent body to rule on the validity of elections Having regard to Article 48 of the Constitution (each Chamber shall examine the credentials of its members and settle any disputes arising) and to Article 231 of the Rules of Procedure ("Only the Chamber of Representatives and the Senate shall rule on the validity of the electoral procedures as regards both their members and their successors). Considering that, according to article 48 of the Constitution, "each Chamber verifies the powers of its members and judges the objections which arise in this respect " and that, pursuant to article 231 of the Electoral Code, "the House of Representatives and the Senate shall alone rule on the validity of the electoral operations in respect of their alternates". Whereas, therefore, since your committee is only competent to rule on the validity of the electoral procedure, it is not for your committee to rule on the settlement of disputes arising from the parliamentary elections by the Constitution. Considering therefore that being solely competent to decide on the validity of the electoral operations, it is not for your commission to decide on the settlement by the Constitution of the dispute over the general elections. Whereas, finally, the judgment in Grosaru v Romania of 2 March 2010 of the European Court of Human Rights states in particular that several countries, including Belgium, have a long democratic tradition whereby elections are validated by Parliament, which removes any doubt as to the legitimacy of such a practice. Considering, finally, that the Grosaru v. Romania judgment of 2 March 2010 of the European Court of Human Rights states, inter alia, that several countries, including Belgium, enjoy a long democratic tradition of validation of electoral operations by Parliament, which removes any doubts as to the legitimacy of such a practice. ........................................................................................ "Computerbug' of 25 May 2014 [[▪]] "Bug informatique" on 25 May 2014 Whereas, in the context of the decision-making process for validating the election of the Chamber of Representatives, the Minister of the Interior sent to the President of the Chamber of Representatives on 6 June 2014 an information note from the Home Office explaining the computer bug on 25 May and how it was identified and handled. Considering that, as part of the decision to approve the election of the House of Representatives, the Minister of the Interior sent to the President of the House of Representatives, dated 6 June 2014, an information note drawn up by the Internal SPF on the explanations concerning the computer bug that occurred on 25 May and the manner in which it was identified and dealt with. Whereas that note shows that for all the votes affected by the bug, "the FPS carried out a new impact calculation per constituency, per election and per list. This confirms that there is no impact on the distribution of seats for the election of the Chamber of Representatives. The unregistered votes represent 0.070 % (initially 0.067 %) of the total votes in the cantons involved in the computer bug" (p. 4). Considering that it appears from this note that: "for all the votes affected by the bug, the SPF has recalculated the impact by constituency, by election and by list. The result is confirmation of the lack of impact on the distribution of seats for the election of the House of Representatives. Incorrect votes represent 0.070 % (initially 0.067 %) of the total votes cast in the cantons concerned by the computer bug" (p. 5). Whereas this small impact is explicitly reflected in the annexes communicated by the Minister for the Interior. For those parties who have lodged an objection in the elections to the Chamber of Representatives in Liège, the votes for LA DROITE have been cancelled and two for VLC have been cancelled. Considering that this low impact is explained in the annexes provided by the Minister of the Interior. For parties that have lodged a complaint in the elections for the House of Representatives in the electoral district of Liège, 2 votes have been cancelled for THE RIGHT and 2 votes for VLC. Whereas the College of Experts responsible for the control of the electronic voting and voting system in its report of 19 June 2014 (Doc. 54 0014/001-2014 BZ), considers the calculations of the Home Office, according to which the void votes do not affect the distribution of seats between the lists, to be correct. Considering that the College of Experts responsible for the control of the automated voting and counting system, in its report of 19 June 2014 (Doc 54 0014/001-2014 SE), also considers the calculations of the Internal SPF that invalidated votes do not have an impact on the distribution of seats among the lists. Belgium's right to vote abroad ▪ Belgians' right to vote abroad Whereas, as regards the problems already mentioned concerning the late receipt of certain ballot letters abroad, your committee refers to the reply of the Belgian Ambassador in Australia, according to whom this delay is due to: "simply the fact that the legal deadline for the transmission of the ballot letters by the Belgian municipalities to the embassy was too short" (letter quoted in the supplementary VLC statement). Considering that in the face of the difficulties raised with regard to the late reception abroad of certain ballot papers, your committee refers to the reply of the Belgian ambassador to Australia, according to which this delay resulted "simply because the legal deadline for sending ballot papers from Belgian municipalities to the embassy was too short." (Letter cited by the amplifying memory introduced by VLC). Whereas it is not up to your committee to decide on the legislation in force. Considering that it is not up to your committee to decide on the legislation in force. Whereas, however, your committee wishes the application of electoral legislation concerning Belgians abroad to be evaluated by the government. Considering, however, that your committee wants the application of Belgian voting legislation abroad to be assessed by the government. In the light of the above statement of reasons, your committee declares the objections mentioned above unfounded. In view of the above reasons, your commission declares the above claims unfounded. Having regard to the fact that the minutes of general assembly of the votes of the head office of the Liège constituency refer to the Bureau's observations and to the documents of the Home Office. Since the minutes of the general census of votes of the main office of the Liège constituency refer to the comments of the bureau and to the documents of the Internal SPF. Having regard to the fact that the minutes of general assembly of the votes of the headquarters of the constituency of Namur do not give rise to any comments. Since the minutes of the general census of votes of the main office of the electoral district of Namur are not the subject of any comment. Having regard to the letter of 16 June 2014 from the Minister for the Interior addressed to the President of the Chamber of Representatives concerning the validation of the vote and information on the "informatics bug" and annex. Having regard to the letter from the Minister of the Interior of 16 June 2014 concerning the procedure for the validation of the vote and the information concerning the "computer bug" and its annex, addressed to the President of the House of Representatives. As the elected representatives have demonstrated the conditions laid down in Article 64 of the Constitution, your committee considers that the credentials of the elected representatives and successors of the members of the electoral groups of Liège and Namur may be valid and proposes that they be admitted as titled members and successors respectively. Whereas the elected representatives have justified the conditions required by Article 64 of the Constitution, your committee considers that the powers of the actual representatives and alternates proclaimed by the main offices of the Liège and Namur constituencies should be validated and proposes to admit them respectively as an effective member and as an alternate member.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u91	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? We therefore vote on the conclusions of the Sixth Committee. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 128 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the conclusions of the Sixth Committee were adopted. Consequently, the conclusions of the sixth committee were adopted. I call upon the members of the Chamber of Representatives, the elected representatives of the provinces of Namur and Liège whose admission is proposed by the committee. I declare the elected representatives of the provinces of Namur and Liège to be effective members of the House of Representatives, whose admission is proposed by the committee. In addition, I call for successors, those elected as such whose admission is proposed. I also declare the elected representatives proposed to be elected in that capacity. I invite the effective members, as well as the successors who replace the outgoing effective members, to take the following oath: 'I swear to comply with the Constitution'. I invite the actual members, as well as the alternate members to replace the actual members who have resigned, to take the following oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution". "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen '. I would remind you that Members elected in the Verviers constituency, who are resident in the German language area and who took the constitutional oath exclusively or first in German, attend the meetings of the Council of the German-speaking Community by an advisory vote when they are not members of that Council. I would point out that Members elected in the electoral district of Verviers who are domiciled in the German region and who have taken the constitutional oath in German only or in the first place, are entitled to attend the meetings of the Council of the German-speaking Community with an advisory vote when they are not members of that council.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u92	I would remind you that the members chosen by the electoral colleges belonging to the French language area and the members elected by the electoral college of the Verviers district are part of the French language group. I would remind you that the members elected by the electoral colleges of the French-speaking region and the members elected by the electoral college of the borough of Verviers are part of the French linguistic group. The members chosen by the electoral colleges belonging to the Dutch language area are part of the Dutch language group. Members elected by electoral colleges in the Dutch-speaking region are members of the Dutch language group. The members elected by the electoral college of the Brussels-Capital constituency are part of the Dutch or French language group as they take the oath in Dutch or French. If they take the oath in several languages, the language in which it was first taken is decisive. Members elected by the electoral college of the electoral district of Brussels-Capital are members of either the French linguistic group or the Dutch linguistic group, depending on whether they take an oath in French or Dutch. If the oath is taken in several languages, the oath of which is used in the first place is decisive.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u93	By letters dated 16 and 18 June 2014, the Prime Minister shall transmit a copy of the Royal Decrees of 5 and 16 June 2014 entitled "Government of the Federal Republic of Germany'. By letters dated June 16 and 18, 2014, the Prime Minister transmitted copies of the royal decrees of June 5 and 16, 2014 entitled "Government – Resignation – Appointment".
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u94	Pursuant to Rule 11 (1) (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the political groups handed over the list of their members and gave the name of their group chairman. In accordance with Rule 11(1)(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the political groups submitted the list of their members and communicated the name of their president.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u95	NEW FLAAMOUS ALLIANTIE Chairman: President: Jan Jambon SOCIALIST PARTY Chairman: President: André Frédéric REFORMER MOVEMENT Voorzitter: President: Daniel Bacquelaine CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC & FLAAMS Chairman: President: Raf Terwingen OPEN FLASH LIBERALS AND DEMOCRATES Chairman: President: Patrick Dewael SOCIALIST PARTY OTHERS Chairman: President: Karin Temmerman HUMANIST DEMOCRATE CENTRE Chairman: President: Catherine Fonck ECOLO-GROWN Chairman: President: Kristof Calvo
ParlaMint-BE_2014-06-19-54-plenair-ip001x.u96	By letter dated 10 June 2014, the Vlaams Belangroep of the Chamber informed me that Mrs Barbara Pas was appointed spokesperson. By letter of 10 June 2014, the House's Vlaams Belang Group informed me of the appointment of Barbara Pas as spokesperson. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Monday, 30 June 2014, at 2.30 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Monday 30 June 2014 at 2.30 p.m.
