ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u1	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, the title of the question relates to the removal of CRIOC's staffing for 2015 as I tabled it some time ago. Let me update it today. Seeing that no funding was planned for 2015 for CRIOC, we asked you in committee because we felt that this would be a very bad signal to consumers and all consumer organisations. One cannot imagine a minister responsible for consumer protection making a deliberate decision that undermines the functioning and the ability of consumer associations to act. Closing the CRIOC's financial taps also means undermining the effectiveness of the various mediators whose CRIOC had justly become the scientific arm. In our discussions on your policy and budget note, you announced that the 2015 staffing for CRIOC would be maintained and that you would meet with the officials of this organization. Minister, a month after our discussions, did you have a consultation with all the parties involved? What are your intentions regarding CRIOC? Above all, how much will it be allocated so that it can best organize itself in the coming year? I think this data is important and we need to give the right signals.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u2	As Mr. Nollet and Ms. Temmerman were not present, their questions became moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u3	Mr President, Mrs Winckel, I would like to point out that it is not my intention to undermine the model of consultation in which consumer organisations can and must play an active role. On the contrary, this model of cooperation is fundamental in economic life. However, I believe that it is necessary to redefine the objective and the framework of the financial support necessary for these organisations to continue to play their role. In order to do so, a new consultation procedure has already been established. It'll take place this Thursday. I have already explained myself on several occasions concerning the notules that I have at your disposal. It is well stated that a possible grant would be compensated internally. Contacts have been organised with consumer organisations. As I said, a consultation will take place on Thursday with the aim of redefining the contract. After reaching a consensus – in any case, I hope – I will try to find ways to finance this concrete model. After the discussion, I will be able to provide you with new information. But the aim is very clear, namely to organize the CRIOC and then to seek the funds to finance it for 2015 and the years that follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hoped, however, that you would have already gone further in the negotiations to try to prepare the best for 2015. You're talking about a reorganization of the CRIOC. As you don't give me more information, I guess you may not see what you're going to do before you meet the representatives of CRIOC. In addition, what worries me more is that you're saying that you're going to look for money to finance 2015. I hope that a budget will be allocated for this purpose. On the eve of a new year, this body should be able to know clearly what will be done tomorrow. Staff members are affected by this measure and it also has an impact on all actions that can be taken in the field of consumer protection. Mr Minister, I had already asked you about your policy note because I just found that there was a lack of consumer protection. I find it vital to think about the survival of the CRIOC and how it will be organized and financed. I would therefore like to return to this subject and hope that you will have good news to give us in plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u5	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, my question is not recent; it is from your assumption of office, but we have not yet had the opportunity to address it. The SEPA standard has been adopted in order to facilitate European banking exchanges. In this new landscape, domiciliations have changed procedure: now it is the creditors who can establish them. Of course, a written warrant signed by the debtor is mandatory. Nevertheless, it seems that the verification by banks is far from general and remains difficult to say the least. Indeed, not only can the creditor easily verify the identity of the principal, but it is also possible for an ill-intentioned creditor to establish a domicile without a warrant, with only the account number of the debtor. In both cases, this is a scam that SEPA did not anticipate. For what type of bank account is this type of behaviour possible? Could you remind us what the bank's obligations are in the event of a proven fraud? Don't you think there is an urgent need to address this SEPA flaw and return to a more secure system for the debtor? In fact, several "errors" have already been mentioned in the press concerning residences.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, it is very important to stress, but as you know, that SEPA is a pilot project at European level, which provides for a home and a uniform European transfer. These rules apply to any type of bank account that can be debited by way of home ownership. European home ownership is first and foremost governed by European Regulation 260 of 14 March 2012. Also apply certain European provisions of Directive 2007/64/EC of 13 November 2007 on payment services in the internal market, as transposed into Belgian law under Title 3 of Book VII of the Code of Economic Law. In practice, as far as domiciliations are concerned, this meant, in particular, that our domestic products DOM'80 should be replaced by the European home SEPA Direct Debit. In concrete terms, this means that the DOM'80 by which the notice of domicile was transmitted directly to the debtor's bank, also in charge of management, is replaced by a SEPA Direct Debit in the context of which the notice of domicile is given directly to a creditor who is also in charge of retaining and managing the notice of domicile. What is the protection of the paying debtor? At European level, the debtor may apply for unconditional repayment of a cash already made within eight weeks of the debit of his account. If, on the other hand, such a right of reimbursement is not provided for, the bank is obliged to check the amount and periodicity of the residence by checking their compliance with the mandate before executing a debit from the account. All Belgian banks provide unconditional repayment. The general rule of the European Directive in the case of payment not authorised by the debtor provides that the debtor may be immediately challenged by the debtor with its bank as soon as it has found it. The maximum time limit is 13 months. Second, the debtor has the right and the possibility to provide his bank with a list of authorized (white list) and unauthorized (black list) creditors, as well as to limit the debit of his account by housekeeping to a specified amount and periodicity. The debtor's bank is obliged to take this into account. At the Belgian level, finally, in addition, the Belgian rules provide that the debtor must explicitly give its consent for the assignment of domicile and must make explicit reference in the terms of reference to the underlying contract and to the claims for which the creditor may rely. I hope you have the concrete information now. I hope that we can draft the drafts in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u7	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer. We've been dealing with housing for ten years, but before SEPA, there were problems. I recall that some people prefer homelessness to be sure of being paid. I think it is important that the FSMA and the FPS Monitoring and Mediation Branch (DCGM) carry out controls. Several people were denounced and consumer associations relayed these reports because housekeeping was done automatically. The fact of complaining afterwards always means asking for a refund, which causes problems for the consumer. As I always say, once there's a home, we can't check what we're paying. Correct follow-up is required and whether the FSMA or the FPS Economy DGCM have received any complaints on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u8	Question No 171 by Mrs Muriel Gerkens is transformed into a written question at her request.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u9	As Mr. Devin could not be present, his question became moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u10	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, an octogenary who requested to renew his credit card at Buy Way was denied this application for the sole reason of his age. This constitutes significant discrimination. However, the 2007 Act to Combat Certain Forms of Discrimination formally prohibits discrimination on the grounds of age. In terms of credit, the discriminating criterion is the customer's ability to repay and certainly not the customer's age! What information have you been able to obtain from Febelfin about these cases? What information is received by the audit department? In view of such attitudes on the part of some banks and credit agencies, should we not once again ask ourselves the question of the lack of control over such attitudes, while laws have strengthened consumer protection and non-discrimination?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lalieux, I have a written answer here for you, setting out the legal basis, but I will try to speak in French. I have to practice this exceptional language as much as possible. I inquired with Febelfin, who told me that I was not aware of any complaints other than the one in the press. She also confirmed the position that I will summarize. Age per se cannot be a criterion for refusal of credit. This is a crucial element. An elderly consumer filed a complaint with the Directorate-General of the Economic Inspectorate (DGIE) because he felt discriminated against on the basis of his age when he was denied a MasterCard card by the lender Buy Way. The Consumer Credit Act does not require the lender to justify a refusal. As a result, the DGI had no legal basis to intervene. It can only base its interventions on the Act of 10 May 2007 to combat certain forms of discrimination. The person concerned was therefore referred to the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities in Contractual Matters. The principle remains the freedom of the parties, as set out in articles 1108 et seq. of the Civil Code. There is no obligation to contract on behalf of the lender, but the refusal cannot be discriminatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I understand that there is freedom of contract; nevertheless, from an ethical point of view, the law on discrimination seems to me to be more important than a contractual freedom granted by the Civil Code. In my view, it must have a morally superior level in order to avoid any attitude that might appear derogatory. Today, it is according to age, tomorrow according to origin – we know these discriminations –, the day after tomorrow according to gender, etc. Banks often discriminate. That is why I believe it is important to strengthen controls. A message should be sent to banking and other financial institutions to recall the Discrimination Act 2007. Their attitude sometimes seems humiliating to me: one can be in full shape at 80 years old and yet unable to subscribe to a MasterCard or to another banking method.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u13	Mr. Speaker, Minister, parliamentarians have worked, with great freedom, for more than two years on this chronic disease law. It took more than two years to finally put an end to discrimination for people who find it difficult to take on and thrive in life. In 2010, Mrs.Partyka, a prominent member of your party, worked on the Chronic Diseases Act to facilitate access to outstanding balance insurance at an affordable price for people with disabilities and for people with serious illnesses who want to make a mortgage. It was a fundamental fight. The deadline for entry into force was 1 January 2015. Minister, you know that insurance has done everything possible not to enforce this legislation. Appeals were filed after the Constitutional Court, but they were systematically rejected. The insurances did not play the game and did not at all respect the spirit of the legislator! This is not the first time in insurance! So the bullet returned to the government camp. In the previous legislature, Ms. Onkelinx and Mr. Vande Lanotte had worked on enforcement orders, and therefore there seems to be no objection to their speedy enactment, since all appeals were dismissed. Other points of the law are also concerned, such as the possibility of a policyholder's appeal to the Bureau de suivi de la tarification in case of refusal or overprime, the establishment of a compensation fund or the supervision of medical questionnaires where any intrusive question must be prohibited. These are important measures to enable everyone to have access to the remaining balance insurance. This will must be fulfilled! Minister, will this act be properly enacted on January 1, 2015? It has been voted in Parliament for five years!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u14	Mr. Chairman, Mrs.Lalieux, I am very familiar with the Partyka-Lalieux Act. Its execution requires the promulgation of two decrees. The first concerns the ratification of the rules of procedure of the Follow-up Bureau. The second concerns the approval of the compensation fund. I also understood that the FSMA had to approve it, still today. Most recently, a consultation was organised with all relevant actors who claimed to take the necessary steps to ensure that the date of entry into force of 1 January 2015 could be respected. I have just sought the opinion of the Council of State on the draft ministerial decree to establish the rules of procedure of the Bureau for the monitoring of charging. This opinion is requested within five days in order to be able to promulgate this order by 1 January.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u15	Minister, all actors want to respect it, which is a good signal. But for five years they have done the opposite, so I am very suspicious and cautious about these actors. I therefore ask you to closely monitor them, in collaboration with your administration and the FSMA. Having said that, I hope that the opinion of the Council of State will be positive and that the decree to be signed by you and the King before 1 January 2015 can be promulgated. I will therefore come back to you in January or February to make sure that everything is in order. Still, I hope that the problem will be solved for all those people who cannot have access to the property today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, Question No 300 by Mr Laurent Devin is postponed at his request. Questions Nos 365 and 366 by Mr. Peter Dedecker are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u17	Mr President, I do indeed have a question about the exuberant price increases in medicines. My example is Leuceran, a non-patent medicine used in the treatment of cancer and leukaemia. The product was originally developed and commercialised by GSK, but is now commercialised by Aspen, a company closely associated with the MSD taken over by GSK. Although there is a principle price freeze for medicinal products in our country, a number of measures have been taken in relation to medicines to make savings in the medical care sector, for economic reasons the price can still be adjusted. For Leuceran, the acquisition was accompanied by a price increase of 4,18 euros to 100 euros, or a price increase of approximately 24-fold. This is a category A medicine or essential medicines, which are fully reimbursed. This is not a problem for the patient, although he also has questions if he suddenly has to pay EUR 4,18 100 instead of EUR 4,18, despite being reimbursed. So the government has to pay more seriously. Over the past few years, we have seen spectacular increases in prices for old medicines, especially for cancer control. There are a number of possible explanations for that. It could be the result of successive linear price reductions in recent years, the expiry of the patent and the advent of generics, which has seriously reduced the company's price. The result of all this is that the price has become so low that it would no longer be profitable for the firm and it threatens to take the medicine off the Belgian market or export it to other countries. This would compromise the patient's availability. The allowed price increase by Economic Affairs is therefore a means of safeguarding the availability of a medicine for patients. A price increase of 4.18 euros to 100 euros still raises questions. Then perhaps we should act in a regulatory manner. First of all, will you raise the issue at European level? That's gonna have to go there. Secondly, what slopes could we offer to ensure that Europe takes effective responsibility and plays a role in the price policy for innovative and old medicines? Thirdly, what measures can we take in our country to avoid such large price increases? It's true that the patient doesn't notice, but that can't be a reason not to check as a government whether we really need to intervene so much. Shouldn't we put a limit on that factor, so that factor 24 is no longer possible, but at most factor 10?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u18	Mr Vercamer, as regards the first two elements of your question, it is indeed important that Europe also plays its role in the pricing policy of medicines in order to achieve maximum price transparency. There have been a number of initiatives recently taken at European level, and I am going over them. Firstly, Directive 89/105/EEC of 21 December 1988, which dates back a while, imposes a number of obligations to ensure that the measures adopted by the Member States concerning the price and reimbursement of medicinal products are transparent and that undertakings are guaranteed rapid, efficient and equitable treatment of their dossier. Secondly, the idea was put forward to establish a database of EU prices for refundable medicines. The objective is to provide up-to-date information to the competent authorities through an online database of prices of refundable medicinal products. The Euripid project was initiated by the Commission but has now come to an end. However, the initiative remains in the form of a voluntary network, in which 24 Member States, including Belgium, participate by transmitting the data on refundable medicines. Finally, a price freeze has indeed been introduced for the refundable medicines for a number of years. Only five requests for derogation from the price freeze shall be submitted each year. The conditions are exceptional conditions which are linked to profitability. In the case described by you, the company was loss-making since 2011 and the margin on the medicine was also negative. Decisions are always based on individual price applications and must be justified on the basis of the elements of the applications. No linear measures can therefore be taken, such as the increase of up to 10%.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. At European level, it is mainly about transparency and the exchange of information. I suspect that we cannot impose linear measures by factor 10 or factor 20. A price increase of EUR 4.18 because the margin was too small, I can understand, but an increase to EUR 100 does not make any sense. I do not, of course, know the reasons for this, but I would suggest that we look again at the extent to which this is or is not exaggerated.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u20	Mr President, Minister, Assuralia announced that compulsory auto insurance had not increased in ten years. This is far from fair; indeed, the average premium - about 300 euros - has hardly increased, but inequality prevails: young drivers or those who have already suffered a disaster pay much more, up to more than 800 euros! At issue: lack of transparency and unclear criteria, opaque pricing. We plead, like Test-Achats, for the return to the bonus-malus system, guaranteeing a fair distribution of risks, as well as for the mandatory publication of rates on the internet that will allow fair competition. Some progress has already been made in the context of the Code of Economic Law with regard to segmentation and the possibilities of segmentation, but it nevertheless seems to us that in a system of compulsory insurance, public authorities must play a role in controlling premiums in the market. There is an opening in your general policy note, Minister, to the whole issue of auto insurance. The Court of Justice of the European Union also found that the bonus-malus system could be reinstated without it being an infringement of competition. I have been advocating for ten years, that is, since this system no longer exists, for the re-establishment of the bonus-malus, in particular through legislative proposals, but we have never reached an agreement. A study was carried out by the previous Minister of Economy to try to see how to move forward. So, minister, would it not be easier to return to a fair system of bonuses-malus, that is, a system that depends on the real behaviour of the person? Statistics show that at the age of 20, more accidents are likely to occur, but a 20-year-old driver should not be victimized by the fact that other 20-year-old drivers behave like cowboys. The same applies to older people who also have difficulties in obtaining insurance, whereas a disaster can always happen. So can we not go back to a fair system of bonuses-malus and also improve transparency by making the publication of tariffs mandatory?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u21	Mr President, Minister, my question is in the same vein. We have noted a call on the Test-Achat website to re-introduce the bonus-malus system for car insurance. The system was abolished about ten years ago at the request of the European Commission. Honestly, I don't quite understand the question of reintroduction. After all, competition between insurance companies has led to an effective reduction in premiums. The freedom of the current system ensures that, above all, good drivers pay less than before. Bad drivers, on the other hand, pay more, which seems more logical and honest to me. Moreover, most companies now also have a joker system or a lifelong award of bonus-malus zero. There are other commercial names for such a system. The bottom line, however, is that good drivers who have one bad luck are not immediately punished. In addition, the criteria currently used to determine the premium should be placed on their website. I therefore believe that all transparency in this area is absolutely guaranteed. A point of concern to me on this point is, of course, Mrs Lalieux's rate for young people, which remains very high, although almost every insurance company grants large discounts on that rate for commercial reasons. Usually a much more favourable rate can be obtained if the parents are also customers. Firstly, Minister, do you intend to re-introduce the compulsory car insurance bonus system? Secondly, do you see any possibility of reducing young people's contributions even more?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u22	Mr Klaps, Mr Lalieux, the generalised and compulsory bonus-malus system was indeed abolished in 2002. However, the KB on the model contract for compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance has since allowed the insurer to provide for a personalisation mechanism in its insurance contracts. In other words, the current scheme provides for a similar system, but the extent to which a bonus malus is taken into account may differ from insurer to insurer. I take note of the question of reconsidering a generalised bonus-malus system. Like my predecessor, I am prepared to examine this proposal if there is sufficient support for it. In such a system, however, the premium will increase for a number of categories. Moreover, we must be sure that such a system will pass the European test. As far as the reduction of youth premiums is concerned, I have noted with great interest the results of the study carried out by the FPS Economy in connection with the price formation of car insurance for young people. A little less than 10% of young people who have tried to take out car insurance in their own name have been refused insurance at least once by an insurer in the search for insurance. In addition, most young people are already mentioned as drivers or second drivers in the policy of someone else, usually the parents. Moreover, the Tarifingsbureau is little known among young people. Only 1% of young people have ever come into contact with it. The Tarifingsbureau can only be called in after three refusals by insurers or three offers with a higher premium. The compulsory publication of tariffs is a delicate obligation, given that tariffs vary according to different criteria. It would therefore be difficult for the insurer to give a rate since each situation differs even in a group identified as is the case, for example, for young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u23	Mr President, Minister, I would remind you that the bonus-malus system is the most equitable system: the premium is calculated on the basis of behaviour and not subjective criteria, such as age, neighbourhood of residence – with or without acts of vandalism. These criteria are not manageable and make the system unfair. Of course, if drivers adopt unacceptable behaviour, I will not mind whether they are sanctioned by the insurer or criminally sanctioned. In that case, nothing is transparent. I am told that there is a D system, but it is completely illegal: if a young person has his own vehicle and rides under the cover of the insurance of his parents, he is in total illegality. And when we talk about less than 10%, it's not an objective percentage: it includes the D system.If parents don't have a car, the young person won't be able to drive because of a lack of contact with insurance. In my view, the system does not work and is totally age-discriminatory. This is not acceptable to me. I would point out that the Court of Justice of the European Union allows the bonus-malus system. This has been frequently referred back to in committee. On the other hand, there is still the aspect of transparency. When it was wanted in the Committee on the Economy, 14 years ago, in relation to economic operators, we were told the same justification: one client is not the other. It is therefore impossible to establish transparency; there are 1,001 criteria. But the legislator wanted transparency. Of course, some players do not want transparency because it allows for better competition. This was still the case with the electricity producers, but we managed to do so little by little. It seems to me high time to impose this transparency vis-à-vis insurers and banking institutions. This is not yet the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u24	Mr President, Minister, the bonus-malus system as it existed had its advantages, but it was also a rigid system. This was the reason why, as soon as it was possible, the airlines got off very quickly. I think Mrs Lalieux is throwing a few things in a pile. There is a problem with the youth rate, but this does not mean that the whole bonus-malus system was good for everyone. Insurance rates are largely based on claims statistics. The good drivers are now effectively paying a lot less than they used to pay. If we want to put that back into a rigid framework, then the rates will increase on average. I do not know whether there is a great deal of support for this, as Mrs Lalieux thinks. As far as young people are concerned, a tariff based on statistics would also lead to much higher premiums. There is a problem that needs to be resolved, but the bonus-malus system as it used to be is not the right solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u25	Mr President, Minister, I would like to speak on a very different subject. Following the banking crisis of 2008, a major restructuring was imposed on KBC. In that context, the Antwerp Diamond Bank had to be divested. However, KBC does not currently appear to find an interested party for a takeover of the bank. That is a problem, because the diamond sector is, of course, a very specific sector. There can be no ordinary bank counters. The problem therefore arises that the customers of the Antwerp Diamond Bank, often small diamonds, will find it very difficult to find another bank that wants to provide them with credit. If small diamondaires can no longer get loans and can no longer buy diamonds from large diamondaires, then there is a snowball effect. We don't want that. The Antwerp diamond sector has a world status and it must be safeguarded. It would be a huge loss for the entire Belgian economy if we lost market share. That is why I have the following questions for you, Minister. Has there been any consultation to set up a new bank specifically focused on the diamond sector? If so, with which actors? On the other hand, is there an existing bank that wants to focus on the diamond sector? If so, how concrete is that? Do you have any other plans to safeguard the competitiveness of the Antwerp diamond sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u26	Mr President, Mr Klaps, I would like to answer your first two questions, but I must of course respect the powers of the Minister of Finance. If you agree, I suggest that you ask those questions to him, because I do not want to speak in turn, let alone give me powers that have not been assigned to me. Nor will you challenge me to do so, for which I am very grateful. In my policy statement, I have been able to explain my intentions within my powers in relation to the Belgian diamond sector. You were able to determine that at that time. In addition to a reform of the evaluation system for the sworn diamond experts, which will be carried out periodically, I would like to ensure that the application of international commitments does not lead to a competitive disadvantage for the diamond sector in our country and that the interests of our diamond sector remain at the forefront of the international scene. I hope that my colleague will be able to answer your first two justified questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u27	Minister, the problem is that, as a starting Member, one wants to do too much at once and bring things together. I'm sure I'll take your suggestion. I am certainly pleased that you confirm that the competitive position of the diamond sector is extremely important and that every effort must be made, whatever minister is competent to safeguard that position.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u28	Minister, Volvo is often in the news. Also yesterday Volvo was in the news, fortunately this time with good news about buying cars online at Volvo. On November 10, it was announced by Volvo that the Volvo XC60, the flagship horse of the Volvo Cars factory in Ghent, would now also be produced in Chengdu province in China. This has, of course, caused a great deal of concern to the thousands of workers at the Ghent plant. Earlier, that model was produced and exported in Ghent for, among other things, the Chinese market. Since the XC60 is produced in Chengdu for the local Chinese market, Volvo Cars in Ghent may face a decline in demand. In the long term, the production of that model in Ghent would even disappear completely. That's a drastic decision, isn't it? In addition, there will be two factories in China, each with a production capacity of 100 000 cars per year. This also means over-production for the Chinese market and so a large part of that Chinese production will be exported abroad, to the United States and perhaps also to Europe. In your capacity as Prime Minister of Flanders, you have had several meetings with the Volvo and Geely summits. One of your last meetings was with Li Shufu and the Chinese president in Ghent. At that time particular emphasis was placed on the problem of wage costs, which would be too high in Belgium. Labour costs had to fall in order to keep the Ghent plant running in the long term. Important steps have been and are being taken by the previous and current governments. To some extent, the government agreement responds to the demand for a reduction in the wage burden. Yet Geely now decides that the production of a good-selling model will move to China. Mr Minister, that is why I have the following questions. First, if the production of the XC60 moves to China, what will be the consequences for Volvo Cars in Ghent? Secondly, your visits and conversations with Geely assured the parent company that the XC60 would stay in Ghent. I have questioned you on several occasions in the Flemish Parliament. How do you explain this change of business policy, despite the government's measures to reduce wage costs in Belgium? Thirdly, have you had contacts with the Volvo Summit in Sweden and with the parent company in China on the above developments? Fourthly, the V40 will remain in Ghent for the time being. Is that enough? This may be an operational matter, but have you received any signals that this is sufficient to ensure employment in Ghent? In other words, can you reassure the employees in Ghent?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these were many questions. I will try to answer them all from my previous and my current position. Mr Yüksel, as regards your first questions, it is true that I met Mr Li Shufu van Geely in October 2013. In that regard, it made clear to the Belgian authorities the need to reduce costs by 15% in order to ensure the long-term viability of the plant. This message was repeated by Volvo's leadership to the Belgian authorities during the Chinese President's visit to Volvo's premises. In the meantime, thanks to God, efforts have been made by both the Flemish and the federal government. As an example, the EUR 2 million investment for the training of factory workers can be quoted. Measures were also taken by the Flemish authorities to optimise the logistical opening of the site in Ghent and there is the impact of the additional measures on property tax on equipment and equipment. Efforts were also made at federal level to reduce labour costs, in the order of 4.1 million euros for 2015 and 2016 each rising to 7.2 million euros in 2017 and 2018. I do not need to draw your attention to the fact that we have also made clear decisions in the federal government agreement which, as I have just said, also have an impact on Volvo. Geely has decided to also produce the model XC60 at the factory of Chengdu in China. It is logical that cars are produced wherever the market is. In China there is also a serious market for Volvo. For the record, the XC60 stays in production in Ghent. I understand that very clearly. It is only the part of the production of the XC60 for the Chinese market that will disappear. It is logical that Volvo would like to produce the car dynamometers for the strong growing Chinese market. This is Volvo's decision and not Geely's decision because Volvo has full responsibility for its growth strategy, including in China. Volvo Cars Gent remains the main factory for the Volvo XC60. Essential for Volvo worldwide, and therefore also for Volvo Cars Ghent, is the realisation of the global growth strategy, in particular 800 000 cars by 2020. Mr Yüksel, I understand your concern that China would export its overproduction to the United States or Europe. I assume that Europe and the production of the XC60 in Ghent will certainly not be compromised. This is something we must follow closely. You asked if there were any contacts with the Volvo summit. There haven't been any contacts lately. I understand that there may be contacts at Flemish level, just to see if things are still going well, but politics must not constantly intervene in what a company does. I believe that the efforts we have already made at the various levels should not cause us any great concern at the moment. Again, constant vigilance is always healthy, especially in view of the number of people employed there. I can tell you that Volvo has officially announced that the next generation of compact Volvo chassis, the successor to the current V40, will be made in Ghent. This means that Volvo will stay in Ghent for the next few years. This was also confirmed by Volvo Cars' CEO and other Volvo top managers. In reply to your last question, our policy will be to restore the competitiveness of our businesses in all sectors of the economy. To achieve this, all necessary steps must be taken to reduce the production costs of our companies. There needs to be a further reduction in labour costs. If you have followed the news, you will know that there will be a meeting of the Central Council for Business this afternoon, where we will once again make clear how big the pay gap is with France, the Netherlands and Germany. It is well known that we will make efforts in this area during this term of office. Wage costs, for example, but also energy costs, must continue to be taken into account in order to give companies such as Volvo every opportunity to continue producing in Ghent.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. You say the XC60 will continue to be produced in Ghent. That is an important element. The current government will also continue to make further efforts to reduce the wage burden. You mentioned the amounts that will apply to Volvo Cars Ghent. Those are important efforts. We expect the company to take its share in that story and continue to invest so that the production and employment in Ghent can stay at the same level and maybe even grow. It cannot be the case that the public authorities take a number of measures and that companies still do what they want to do. I shall now come to one final point. Indeed, you have not had any contact with the summit recently, either in China or in Sweden. I would advise you to get in touch with them at an appropriate time because I believe that as Federal Minister of Work and Deputy Prime Minister you should maintain contacts with the Swedish and Chinese top of the company. You must keep a close eye on things and, above all, press them to fulfil their commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u31	Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister, every year around mid-October, is held in Louvain-la-Neuve, on the campus site itself, one of the most important student events in the country, namely the 24 hour bike ride. Students from all over Belgium meet for a long night under the sign of celebration and sport. Needless to say, alcohol abuse is frequent, sometimes uncontrolled, in the light of the tragedies that have bereaved this event several times. For several years, the university and municipal authorities have been working hard to prevent and limit the consumption of alcohol, particularly strong alcohol. Even the brewing companies are committed to participating in this effort. However, it must be noted that in the last edition one of these brewing companies derailed. With slogans as shocking and inappropriate as "Good resolutions are made to be forgotten" or "Good points deserve good pints", AB InBev distributed coupons on campus for one of its flagship beers. There were many reactions, starting with that of the ASBL Universe Santé, which then denounced the work of undermining its prevention efforts. On 15 October, one of my colleagues interviewed Minister Marcourt in the Parliament of the French Community. The latter, regretting the initiative of the multinational brewing company, however, said he was powerless, willingly referring the subject to the federal government and its jurisdiction over consumer protection. It is in this context, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, that I wanted to question you, because in addition to this unfortunate episode, we are all aware that this example is very negative for young people. Would it be conceivable and relevant to review the law governing the advertising of alcoholic products? Today, it is managed through an agreement signed in 2013: the Arnoldus Convention. It governs the advertising of alcohol and beer and has been taken by distributors and manufacturers, on the one hand, and the Minister of Health and consumer protection associations, on the other. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what actions could be envisaged by the government to prevent such practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is currently no specific provision on advertising for products containing alcohol. However, the Act of 24 January 1977 on the protection of consumer health with regard to foodstuffs and other products aims to regulate or prohibit the advertising of alcoholic beverages. Since 25 February 2013, the Belgian Brewers, the Belgian Federation of Wines and Spirits, the Federation of Distribution Enterprises, the Advertising Council, the Horeca federations and consumer organisations have committed themselves to a convention on the advertising and marketing of alcohol-containing beverages. The aim of these rules is to prevent young people from being encouraged to drink alcoholic beverages. This matter is the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister of Public Health. It is therefore up to the Commission to assess whether it is necessary to take more stringent measures than those currently in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u33	Minister, you mentioned the convention. However, if the Minister of Health is one of them, it is also the case of consumer protection associations. However, we can see the limits of this convention. It states, for example, that it is prohibited to distribute alcohol on the street as part of an advertising action. In this case, the brewing company circumvented this ban by offering discount vouchers. This convention is therefore not strict enough in terms of consumer protection as it is managed to circumvent it. The Jury of Advertising Ethics did not consider this an offence at the moment. We're talking about underage, not young people. In terms of consumer protection, there is certainly something to be done. I will also ask Minister De Block about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u34	Mr President, Minister, I have a typical question for the committee, which is also in line with a question I put to the previous legislature. At that time, a number of SMEs and traders were flooded with emails and advertising messages from firms that presented themselves as publishers of brochures in order to obtain advertisements, but that were not in the end. It was therefore a question of crooks, who in this way tried to take money away from SMEs in good faith, who supposedly advertise in this way. A number of contacts at UNIZO informed me that such practices are once again emerging. There are now ghost companies operating again, bad faith companies posing as domain name managers and trying to convince local SMEs and small traders to take a domain name or a domain name registration. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of this? If so, can you take measures to prevent traders in good faith from engaging in such practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u35	Mr Terwingen, it is a good question for the committee. You were indeed just in time, which is also very important for our economy. The General Directorate of Economic Inspection received 1 127 files in 2011, 1 100 in 2012 and no less than 1 362 complaints in 2013. For 2014, 854 notifications have so far been received. The increase in 2013 can partly be explained by the fact that attention to the issue has increased, making more entrepreneurs aware of the problem and finding the way to the FPS Economy to report their problem. The analysis shows that the vast majority of notifications relate to business directories. Only a small share relates to domain names. In 2013, the General Directorate of Economic Inspection received 22 notifications. This year it has already received 141 notifications. The economic inspection tries to approach the problem from different sides. A first approach is preventive information: publication of a grey list of malicious companies on the website of the FPS Economy, warnings on the Facebook page Scam, awareness campaigns in collaboration with stakeholders such as VBO and other organisations. In addition, the subject was also placed on the agenda of the working group on Entrepreneurship within the Benelux. That's the preventive part. A second approach is repressive. For example, the complaints received by the FPS Economy are legally analysed and, if necessary, investigations are carried out to establish infringements. In most cases, the facts are also brought to the attention of the territorially concerned parquets. There is also the possibility of bringing an action for a strike through the court of commerce. Such a claim has been imposed several times since 2011. The companies may also bring an action for strike themselves and apply to the public prosecutor to whom the pro-justitia was sent. The economic inspection is making the necessary efforts to stop illegal commercial practices, but it appears, as you know, because it has often been highlighted in the past, to be a difficult practice to control. We will try to eradicate the problem with sustained energy and with your continued attention, Mr Terwingen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It's very good that the complaints come in. This means that we are aware of the abuse. If not, no complaint shall be made. So that's very good. It is good that the question is regularly asked, so that not only you, your policy and your cabinet but also your FOD remain attentive to the whole problem. It is also a good thing that this problem is being followed up. I'm glad. In a year's time, perhaps, I will return to the Committee on Business, where I have had the honour of performing once today. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you, Minister, for answering my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u37	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, as a Liberal Member of Parliament, this is a subject that I would like to bring to your attention. During the last legislature, I had the opportunity to ask your predecessor about these practices of competition for mutualities, which I consider unfair, particularly in the field of auto-schools, in the practice of optics and – I have recently been able to see in my region – in the field of dentistry. Several mutualities have developed activities that are outside the traditional scope that they are supposed to pursue and some independents are calling for unfair competition. I could quote the "Drive Mut", proposed by the socialist mutuality or the "Point de Mire", proposed by the Christian and socialist mutualities. In my municipality of Eupen, a great brand advertises for the practice of dentistry, defying all competition. One may wonder about the ethics of these practices. Minister, the organization of these activities by mutualities allows structures to practice prices that defy competition, which poses major problems for professionals in the sector. Secondly, the visibility offered to these services by the members of the mutual allows for easy publicity which, again, clearly deregulates the market. To take a concrete example, the "Drive Mut" service charges one hour of car-school at 40 euros, compared to an average of 47 euros in a traditional car-school. In the past, the Minister in charge of the Economy had indicated that the Office for the Control of Mutualities (OCM) would study the matter and that many informal contacts had been made with mutualities in order to respond to the numerous inquiries on the subject. Minister, is the competition for mutualities in sectors such as auto-schools, optics or dentistry legal? What are the CMO's conclusions on the subject? Have you reactivated contacts with mutualities about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Jadin, I have three preliminary remarks. First, the Office for the Control of Mutualities is a body outside my jurisdiction. With regard to the study carried out and the conclusions resulting therefrom, I refer you to my colleague, the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health. It is up to the Commission to ensure that the resources granted to mutual societies are used properly in the context of legal tasks. Secondly, the restrictions on advertising to which medical professions are subject are also within the Minister's competence. Excuse me, but I'm very attentive to that. Thirdly, the activity of self-schooling was, until the sixth institutional reform, subject to an approval granted by the SPF Mobility and Transport. This matter has been regionalised since then and you know it. The federal authorities should therefore be asked about the rules on the matter. For the following, I am relying solely on economic regulations and, in particular, on the Code of Economic Law. European case law should be recalled. The Court of First Instance of the European Union has stated that bodies which perform an exclusively social function based on the principle of national solidarity and without any profit-making purpose are not undertakings within the meaning of competition law. On the other hand, it seems to me unquestionably that optical shops, auto-schools or dental firms organized by mutual aid or by an ASBL set up by a mutual fund are to be regarded as undertakings within the meaning of the Code of Economic Law. Therefore, the rules on competition and market practices are applicable to them. As you know, the competition authority is an independent authority. I want to respect this autonomy as widely as possible. As far as market practice is concerned, Book VI of the Code of Economic Law prohibits unfair practices between enterprises and makes available to an undertaking which is the victim of unfair practices by another undertaking means to take effective legal action.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u39	Minister, thank you. As far as your first two answers are concerned, it's well done! But this further reinforces my objective and that of Minister De Block to create more transparency in the mutualities sector. We really need it. As far as the economic aspect is concerned, I thank you for your answer. I've had contacts with the opticians and dentists association in the past. They will launch proceedings, in particular with the Autorité de la concurrence or legal proceedings. I hear that to date the problem has not been definitively resolved and that there are still some obscure points to be clarified. I will not only question Minister De Block on this matter, but also continue to investigate this matter, which I consider very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u40	Mr President, Minister, when you fill up and pay with a bank card, a certain amount, ranging from EUR 125 to EUR 375, is blocked in the bank account. This in itself is not abnormal, it validates its bank card before it is refueled, so it is not yet known for what amount of fuel is to be refueled. However, the blocked amount is intended to be released immediately after the refueling. In practice, it appears that it takes some time, until even a week, for that money to be available again. This can be a problem for many people, for example at the end of the month or during the Christmas period. Moreover, most consumers do not know that. They are not informed in any way and there is no indication that this is a common practice. We have already looked into this and Belgium is not the only country where such a thing happens. We have also found a similar procedure in France, but there the amount is a lot lower than ours. Many complaints about this practice have already been received at Test-Achats and during the previous legislature this was already discussed with your predecessor, who said that an investigation had already been ordered. Minister, I would like to get an update from you on that investigation. What was specifically investigated? Are there any results of this? How will you handle this case? What do you find yourself an acceptable maximum amount during refueling? The amount of 375 euros does frown most of us. How long would that block last at most? Also very important, how can we ensure better transparency with regard to the consumer so that he at least knows what happens to his account? Are there any examples in other European countries where this might be better regulated?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u41	Mr President, Mr Klaps, it is true that this issue was examined during the previous legislature. Four important observations were made at that time. Firstly, there were two major problems, namely consumers who could not refuel with their tank card while there was money in their accounts and consumers whose balance of the reserved amount remained unavailable for some time after the refueling. Secondly, in the case of several complaints, there appeared to have been a technical problem which caused the information mission from the pump to the bank to some extent to delay the release of the balance of the reserved amount. Thirdly, some actors did not allow ICT applications to avoid these problems. Finally, it proved impossible to determine who the technical problem was in. There are several parties: the pump holder, the hardware supplier, the processor of payment transactions and the financial institution. The administration carried out a study on this issue and had several discussions in the spring with the various actors involved in this issue. Both consumer organisations and payment transaction processors, fuel federations and banks, represented by Febelfin, were invited and heard on several occasions about the problem. A number of adjustments have been made by banks active in Belgium. Apart from technical problems which, unfortunately, can always occur, structural measures have been taken to deal with the two problems mentioned. It has also become clear during the investigation that the system showed a lack of transparency. Such information to the consumer can already avoid many problems. Febelfin has agreed that its members would include in the general or special banking conditions provisions on the use of payment cards in the event of a refueling. The fuel federations have agreed to draw the consumer's attention to the system of pre-authorisation with a vignette at the pump. However, they opposed the introduction of a reduction in the maximum rate of reservation. However, they were prepared to make an entry on the fuel pumps informing about the temporary reservation of an amount in the account. I believe that everyone agrees that, in principle, once the transaction, i.e. the purchase of the fuel and the payment, is completed, the balance of the amount reserved must be released immediately. According to the survey carried out by the General Directorate of Economic Inspection, this is done in the majority of cases. Before I consider any further steps, I have asked the administration for a report on, firstly, the practical application of the agreements made and their impact on the number of problems; secondly, a thorough analysis of the contractual relations between all the intervening parties so that it becomes clear who bears what responsibility; and thirdly, a comparative study on the situation in the other Member States. As soon as I have the answers, I am prepared, if you ask, Mr Klaps, to bring that information here as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u42	Of course, Minister, I will come back to that, because I am interested in these results. It is obvious that this is mentioned in the general terms and conditions for a bank card with the bank documents, but I do not know how many people read that document and remember everything they read in it. The system with the sticker could indeed solve a lot, but in practice I do not see it. So there's still a lot of work to be done. If the various parties continue to play each other the wrong way, in response to the question of why it is going wrong, we will of course not be able to make any progress. I'm glad you're on it. I will follow the file closely and I promise you this is not a challenge, just a promise that I will come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-16-54-commissie-ic037x.u43	Question No 890 by Mrs Detiège is postponed. Question No 241 by Mr Calvo, which has not joined us, is irrelevant.
