ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to stick to the speaking time provided for in the Rules of Procedure, that is to say 5 minutes, including the question and answer. The questions and answers must therefore be succinct. And according to Mr Nollet, we shall begin with Mr Wollants' question on item 18 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u2	Mr President, once again I would like to thank Mr Nollet for his willingness to give me room here. Madam Minister, the recent report by the Federal Planning Office on our current energy system is based on a single scenario, namely that proposed by the previous government, in this case replacing nuclear capacity with renewable energy and by gas plants for the base load and back-up energy supply. My party and I are concerned about different elements of that scenario, which was adopted by the Planning Bureau. After all, it has a lot of similarities with the Energy Week, which our German neighbours are having a very difficult time working. Firstly, in terms of balance, we note that there is a 45% dependence on natural gas by 2050, which means that we are becoming very dependent on one fossil fuel, which is also imported from unstable regions. Moreover, 54 percent of net production depends on the weather, which produces renewable variable energy. Secondly, in the long term, the Plan Bureau predicts a reduction of one third of CO2 emissions in the replacement of nuclear capacity by renewable energy and gas. In Germany, however, we see the opposite happening, namely subsidies and market distortion by renewable energy, which prices everything out of the market. As a result, lignite and coal are introduced in Germany, which is certainly not a positive story. Thirdly, with regard to distribution and network stability, we find that a lot of new networks need to be built in Germany. We are talking about more than 6 400 km of high-voltage lines, with which we have only just begun. This is partly due to the not-in-my-backyard phenomenon, which is also known in Germany. There is a great deal of opposition to the construction of such things over there. Moreover, there is the fact that I mentioned just now. Sun and wind may send the nets confused. In Poland and the Czech Republic, for example, we already see counter-moves to prevent this energy from reaching the grid. As a result, this energy naturally flows to networks on which such technology has not yet been installed or is less installed. It is therefore important that we try to draw lessons from the German story, so that we do not make the same mistakes. While we are at the beginning of the design of an energy vision, we should be able to take the above into account. I have the following questions for you. Firstly, what lessons should we learn from the German Energy Week? Secondly, is the scenario used by the Planning Bureau the same scenario the government envisages? Thirdly, is it intended to have an additional study carried out by the Planning Bureau which also takes into account other scenarios? For example, I mention a study on 100 % of renewable energy or taking into account a delayed nuclear exit. In this way, we could assess the impact of such scenarios. Today, we only know the scenario of the Planning Bureau, which contains a number of factors which we do not necessarily take into account in the present legislative period. I would therefore like to hear your answer to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u3	Mr President, my colleague, I have prepared a three-page answer to your questions. It is written entirely in Dutch. I do not want to make it difficult for you to hear it, as I have not yet reached a good level of fluidity in Dutch. I would therefore like to ask the honourable Member whether he agrees to send him a copy of the answer. In this way, he will have all the elements, and we will be able to return to them later if he feels that this is not enough. In any case, next time, I will start answering in Dutch before continuing in French.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u4	I'll listen to Mr. Wollants' reaction. That said, for the record, if you wanted to make a short summary in French of two minutes, that would be very good.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u5	Mr. President, I understand you. So I'm going to start. Mr President, Mr Wollants, your question has received my full attention. It is always difficult to judge another country and certainly a complex country such as Germany. This policy has attracted a lot of criticism, especially among professional and industrial consumers who are concerned about the cost and impact on German competitiveness. For some, the Energiewende announces the end of subsidies and other extremely expensive benefits that wind and solar energy could enjoy. Without these very high subsidies, the massive development of these energies would be put at risk and the targets set do not seem feasible. We should not forget that in Germany the price of electricity for private individuals is double the French price and that coal, gas and nuclear energy still account for 70% of electricity production in 2013. In the last three years, greenhouse gas emissions have increased and the competitiveness of German industry has decreased as a result of high energy prices, with the exception of key sectors. Energy poverty has increased in private individuals and environmental objectives have not been achieved. The lost nuclear production has been replaced by coal. We must consider all energy sources on the basis of their respective merits in terms of security, cost, environment and sustainability. The choice of the energy mix remains a right of the Member States. Nevertheless, I believe that this experience teaches us that there is a need at European level for better, strengthened coordination between Member States on information on important policy choices and on the exchange of best practices. That is the answer to the first question. For the other elements, I propose to send a copy to Mr Wollants, if he accepts it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u6	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Your lecture was very good.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u7	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I think it was already clear in your first answer that you share our concerns. We must be careful what we want to do, but I am certainly looking forward to the full reading. We can come back to this later, because it seems to me to be a very important debate on the formation of our energy vision in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u8	Mrs. Leen Dierick's questions lapsed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u9	Madam Secretary, during the government negotiations it was decided to keep Objectives 1 and 2 open for longer. In the very short term there would be an extension to 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2016 respectively. Because of the standstill of Objective 3 and Tihange 2 and the closure of a number of gas plants, the risk of a power cut at low temperatures is not nonexistent this winter. In order to achieve an extension, a new law on the core exit will have to be introduced; otherwise the Objective 1 operator will have to close the plant in February 2015, as provided for in the current law. In addition, the operator today only has the quantity of nuclear fuel that is sufficient to keep the power station running until February 2015. As long as the operator has no legal certainty as to the extension of the service life, no new fuel will therefore be announced or, in this case, spared. There is therefore time to take an initiative. I have the following questions. What is the state of play in the consultation with the operator on the conditions for the possible lifetime extension? Can you tell us what the problem is today? When do you expect to be able to land with these negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u10	I shall confine myself to the first page of my reply. I will give you the rest of the answer in writing. The government agreement clearly states that by 31 December 2014 the government will decide on the ten-year extension of Objectives 1 and 2, subject to the agreement of the FANC and the operator. There are five conditions, which I mentioned earlier. In order to comply with the commitments and ensure the energy supply of our country, I have instructed my administration to prepare a technical dossier by the beginning of December which will provide the necessary analysis elements. I will propose that report to the government so that it can take a decision with full knowledge of the facts before the end of the year. Contacts were made with Electrabel to discuss the technical and financial conditions of a possible 10-year extension. These elements are part of the report prepared by my administration. With regard to Objective 3 and Tihange 2, I can agree with the words of the Minister for the Interior, who is responsible for nuclear safety, in the Committee on the Interior of 12 November.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u11	Thank you for that reply. I will, of course, keep a close eye on the rest. However, we must consider how the question can be structured in the future, so that you can answer the many questions you will have in this committee within the time frame. Now it's still a little searching for everyone. I look forward to the follow-up to your reply. We can come back to it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u12	Mr President, the point was raised in the Memorandum of the CREG – I have tabled a series of questions related to it. Given the late hour, I will try to summarize my question to the essentials. We talked about it a little earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u13	(...) earlier the content of my answer by responding to another speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u14	Excuse me, but your microphone was off.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u15	I was saying that I removed the first paragraph in which I indicated that I admired the work you had done in drafting the 17 questions that you addressed to me. Thank you – and this without irony. I also realized – as you say yourself – that they were all taken from the CREG note of July 31, 2014, so you turned the suggestions into questions. I therefore responded to the question of safety nets earlier in the exchange we had on the general policy note.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u16	So you keep the fact that the extension is scheduled for one year. Then it'll be over?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u17	Yes. I say that this system, which was declared provisional, is a system that has shown all its virtue because it has made it possible to clarify the conditions of the market. He has achieved his goal. Maintaining it would therefore not be interesting, especially since ex ante and ex post control is too important in the light of market liberalisation. The European Commission would certainly not agree that this system should be continued indefinitely. That is why we have made this decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u18	I take note of your answer. She's clear, but I don't agree!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u19	Of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u20	I want to say it. Firstly, I do not agree that Europe could blame us for an extension. I think we have to try. When we talk to Europe, as is the case with other dossiers, there is sometimes a way to find arrangements. All the more so – and this is my second point – that the usefulness of the safety net for the social dimensions, which are also part of Europe's objectives, has been proven and that the CREG calls for a much longer extension. We disagree. Of which act!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u21	Mr President, Madam Minister, several municipalities have thus embarked on the establishment of a group purchase of energy. This policy, which is very positive in my view, is to bring together people with the same objective: the purchase of energy at a good price. Unfortunately, these purchasing groups are not currently defined in the law. What steps do you intend to take to overcome this vacuum? Unless I am mistaken, this was not mentioned earlier in the debate. What about the legislative framework for other energy service providers such as price comparators? Will you take steps to put in place labels to set beacons for these organizations? What would be the conditions for access to this label? In addition, have you entrusted the regulator with this role of issuing potential labels to these different providers? If not, do you agree to do so? In fact, the question had already been asked before you arrived, but it is a consequence of the continuity of the function. This is a subject to initiate the debate on the guidance of energy service providers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your question has received my full attention. The Gas and Electricity Acts currently provide for the control power of CREG over energy undertakings as defined in Article 1, 5e bis and Article 2, 15e ter respectively. However, it is important to ensure that consumers also have access to correct and reliable information on energy service providers. Therefore, in order to match the competences of CREG to this new market reality, the latter proposes to insert a definition that also covers the activities of service providers such as price comparison websites and purchasing grouping organisations. In addition, CREG calls for the drafting of tools such as good practice guidelines and the labelling power of organisations that would adhere to them. The CREG could therefore request information from these service providers and intermediaries active in the energy markets in general, or even sanction the members of the system in case of non-compliance. Of course, official comparators of the type made available by regional regulators are not covered, but private initiatives, whether commercial or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u23	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I will analyse your answer in detail. May I ask for your full written text? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u24	Mr. President, Minister, some time ago, the regulator drew your attention and that of the federal authorities to the need for our country to move towards higher standards of consumer protection. This is a dossier on which I was able to speak this morning to your colleague Kris Peeters, but some of the dimensions of this dossier concern you. As part of efforts to ensure adequate protection of consumers' interests in the field of energy, CREG recommended a series of things, including integrating the specific components of our country into the aide-mémoire, etc. Will the government implement the adaptations proposed by CREG? Can you tell me if this document is currently available to everyone? Another important aspect developed in the recent CREG report concerns the necessary limitation of products launched by suppliers. It must be noted that for the citizen, readability and transparency are far from being the norm. What measures do you intend to take in relation to this? Furthermore, the consumer is not kept informed of dormant products. These are extended without any change in the contracts. When will the arrangements be made for consumers to be notified of the existence of the product and to be offered the cheapest active product?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u25	Mr President, Mr Nollet, as you have heard, consumer protection is one of the government's political priorities during this legislature. With regard to the brochure currently available from the Commission services, the CREG has indeed proposed to supplement it with the provisions relating to our country and, in particular, with the federal and regional provisions on consumer protection in the energy sector. A sub-working group within FORBEG (Forum of Federal and Regional Energy Regulators in Belgium), chaired by CREG and comprising representatives of the various departments involved, such as the SPF Economy, the Federal Energy Mediation Service and regional regulators, is currently working on this project. With regard to a possible limitation of the products offered by the various suppliers, a necessary balance must be struck between a good range of products, fixed prices, prices varying at one, two or three years, with or without complementary service, whether fully online or not, with paper invoices or entirely on line that meet various needs for any type of consumer. It is clear that not all consumers need the same services, so they only pay for those they think they really need. And there is a need to ensure adequate visibility and readability for the consumer. For this purpose, the current comparators are very useful and allow to find both the supplier and the best contract formula provided that the additional services offered are clearly specified by the supplier. As such, I recall that the government agreement states that "without prejudice to consumer mobility, the government will examine the possibility of relaxing the regulation of joint offers of energy services". With regard to the issue of dormant products, existing contracts still under way are no longer offered by the supplier to new customers. It seems to me necessary for these contracts to be included in the price comparators' offers as well as in all other contracts of the same supplier - this is the case in Brussels but not yet in Wallonia and Flanders - so that each consumer can compare new offers, including those of his current supplier, with the contract at his disposal and which is in progress. These contracts may be adapted or replaced on the proposal of the supplier with the consent of the customer or at the request of the customer. Recall that today, the supplier is obliged to offer at least once a year to its customers, during the annual regularization invoice for example, its cheapest price formula. In addition, the electricity and gas consumer can switch supplier free of charge with 30 days' notice. So the market is already very open.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u26	Mr President, I would just like to stress the importance of keeping consumers informed of dormant products because you sometimes play on your naivety or misunderstood. We, who know the rules and how they work, inform each other regularly, but not everyone at the same level of information. It is important that the public authority, in the broad sense, intervene so that dormant products do not become "derived" products which would then be to the detriment of the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u27	This is a more institutional issue. Beyond the legal tasks of the CREG, there are major challenges: the energy standard, etc. My question could be summarized as follows: What role will you give to CREG in this respect? The CREG points out five priority issues: the development of energy production from renewable energy sources. This point seems important to me for the offshore. You removed it from your written text, but it appears in the government agreement. Other priority issues are the optimal evolution of the energy mix, the strengthening and modernisation of transport infrastructure, the development of energy efficiency and the geopolitics of security of supply. How will you involve CREG in relation to these elements?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u28	The government agreement explicitly provides for the development of an energy vision and pact in order to prepare for the transition to a new energy system. Without prejudice to the actions the Government will undertake in particular in pursuance of this agreement, Belgium needs an inter-federal energy pact preceded by an energy vision in order to enable the socio-economic and environmental transformations that are necessary over a period of at least 20 to 25 years. The various stakeholders, including the CREG of course, but also the sector and the major consumers, will be involved by governments in the drafting of this inter-federal energy pact, which will take account of global developments in energy consumption and cost, European technologies and major energy and climate objectives. In a liberalised market, this vision and energy pact must aim at stability for essential investments in energy production, transformation and transport and must make possible energy alternatives to mobility. We will have to consider all sources of energy without taboos on the basis of their merits in terms of safety, cost and sustainability, security being predominant. The CREG as the federal regulator responsible for the proper functioning of the market will obviously have a role to play in the development of such a pact as well as transmission system operators. DG Energy has already made concrete proposals to initiate this approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u29	The CREG will have a role to play, I could expect it. I find that your answer is somewhat unclear, but I understand, you're in charge. However, I find that CREG can play a more precise role. I'll come back to it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u30	Mr. Chair, Minister, the regulator has submitted to the federal government a proposal to relax the regulatory regime with respect to storage. This question is precise but useful. In fact, earlier on, you yourself highlighted the importance of storage; I agree with you on this point because the link between renewables and storage is indeed important. The CREG refers to the seasonal smoothing of wholesale natural gas prices which has led to an incomplete allocation of available storage capacity. This leads to a loss of profits for the manager of the storage facility. Can you, Madam Minister, give me a few figures on this? In order not to take too long, you can send them to me in writing. How would harmonising access to storage on the conditions of access of neighbouring countries proposed by CREG make the framework more flexible? Can you tell me more about the differences between the Belgian framework in this area and the situation in our neighbours to the European Union? Finally, may I ask if the government is currently defending measures to meet the request for easing that I have just mentioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u31	Mr President, Mr Nollet, indeed, with regard to your first question, I can give you the figures in writing immediately by photocopying my answer. Second, giving the storage site manager the opportunity to stick to the market allows it to respond proactively to variations in the spread summer-winter and to use long-term tariff differentiation with incentives compared to short-term applications that remain non-discriminatory. Another route would be to further differentiate seasonal storage products from those intended for short-term flexibility, e.g. gas back up intermittent production from renewables. As regards the differences between the Belgian framework in this respect and the situation prevailing in our neighbours to the European Union, Article 33 of Directive 2009/73 provides for two access regimes for gas undertakings to natural gas storage, namely either negotiated access or regulated access. Under the negotiated regime, regulatory authorities shall ensure that the storage system manager and gas undertakings publish, each year, their main commercial interests relating to the use of storage facilities, flexibility and other services. As regards contracts for access to storage, these are drawn up individually between the manager of the storage facility and the gas company. The negotiation shall relate to all aspects relating to storage services, including storage capacity, emission capacity, start of subscription, duration, end date of subscription, terms of payment. In concrete terms, this means that the storage user and the storage facility manager can conclude a tailor-made service. In the event that a regulated access regime is chosen, the regulatory authority shall take the necessary measures to ensure that gas undertakings and customers who enter into account have the right to access storage facilities on the basis of published tariffs and other provisions and obligations in connection with the use of storage where this is technically and economically necessary to ensure effective access to the system. The regulatory authority shall consult the users of the system for the determination of the main and commercial provisions relating to services and for the determination of the rates and the associated calculation methodology. An important aspect of the regime is that both contractual provisions and tariffs are identical for storage users. Belgium, as part of the transposition of Directive 2009/73, opted for the regulated access regime. What differentiates Belgium from other Member States in the north-western area of Europe is the fact that Belgium is the only Member State which has opted for a regulated storage regime. As Fluxys, the Belgian natural gas transmission and storage system operator, pointed out, a large number of storage facilities in neighbouring countries are not regulated or exempted from regulation and can therefore offer their services in a negotiated manner without regulatory supervision similar to that prevailing in Belgium while allowing access to all. This greater flexibility allows Loenhout's competitors to better market their capabilities. As to whether the government is defending measures to meet the request for easing, this proposal by CREG to relax the regulatory regime for the storage of natural gas seems to be well founded. I asked the experts in my administration to analyse it in depth.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u32	Minister, thank you for that answer. It is encouraging and I will cross-check it with the figures that will be available to me at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u33	Mr. Chair, Minister, the CREG has referred a series of recommendations to the government regarding a possible evolution of the regulatory framework for the electricity and gas markets. I would like to know the government's objectives in this area – a dimension that we did not address earlier. What measures are you defending in order to change the Electricity Act and the Gas Act on this specific point? In addition, the regulator also refers to the possibility that certain tasks currently entrusted to system operators, such as the question of cooperation between transmission system operators, may be transferred to its field of competence. It would be a matter of bringing us into line with European legislation. This is a crucial issue in my view, which would strengthen the rules of control of the regulator. What about it? In this context, I would like you to give me an overview of the collaborations that are currently being carried out between our network operators and those of other Member States of the European Union. As far as this part is concerned, I can fully accept that you provide me with a written answer. In this way, you could focus on your oral response.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u34	Mr President, Mr Nollet, I will give you the full answer, since it is not long. It will therefore be bearable...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u35	There's no problem, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u36	Mr President, thank you. The adoption of the third energy package, in particular the various network codes established at European level, aims to unify the European energy market. As pointed out by the federal regulator in his July report, these directly binding codes for Member States provide for the creation of many entities, resulting in significant changes in the overall tasks and responsibility of transmission system operators. These developments encourage the latter to collaborate more intensively and to exercise their function jointly through the creation of joint ventures. I am thinking, for example, of Fluxys and the Luxembourg TSO Creos. All these changes, both in the natural gas and electricity sectors, could eventually prevent the federal regulator from fully fulfilling its tasks and, above all, from fulfilling its role of monitoring the proper functioning of the market, which is linked to the provision of capacity at borders and the control of electricity exchanges. Indeed, many of these operations would be carried out by these new bodies, which do not currently fall within the scope of the CREG – such as the TSOs – or very indirectly via the national TSOs. All these market facilitators must also be subject to a set of standard control rules implemented by CREG, especially where the objective of these entities is to conclude contracts directly with network users. It is essential for the regulator to be able to verify the cost of these bodies, especially when they are borne by Elia or Fluxys, i.e. in fine by Belgian consumers. Again, I have instructed the experts in my administration to analyse this proposal taking into account the legal constraints at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u37	Mr. Chair, I thank the minister for her response, which I will look at in depth.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u38	Mr. Chair, Minister, pursuant to section 7quater of the Electricity Act, the Minister may instruct the Network Manager to establish a strategic reserve for a period of one to three years from the first day of the coming winter period and shall set the level of that reserve in megawatts. The decision, the analysis of the system operator and the opinion of the Directorate-General for Energy are published on the website of the SPF Economy. Following Electrabel's communication announcing the continuation of the tank testing program, the government instructed the system operator to contract an additional volume of strategic reserve. Minister, could you clarify the details of this operation? In connection with this initiative, the regulator drew our attention to the absence of legal provisions regarding the possibility of participation of units not connected to the transport network in the event of shortages. What about it? The CREG also stresses the need to clarify under what conditions the units in the strategic reserve can feed the market. Do these details prevent the potential activation of these reserves this winter? This is a rather urgent matter! Under what legal conditions could temporary shutdown units return to the market? What beacons are in place? I would point out that this question, which was addressed to your predecessor, Mrs Catherine Fonck, is still relevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u39	Mr President, I have already dealt in part with this aspect of things earlier, speaking of the height of this strategic reserve. Its volume is fixed by royal decree of 4 March 2014 published in the Belgian Monitor and on the SPF Economie website, with the opinions of DG Energy and Elia. The network manager then launched a call for tender for production and demand reduction, which closed on July 4, 2014, when Catherine Fonck was Secretary of State. To fill the increased capacity gap following the closure of Tihange 2 and Doel 3, the establishment of a strategic reserve of 2,100 megawatts made it possible to take into account the risk of non-availability of this energy in the market during a severe winter and due to an incident. I forgot to say earlier that we can not only have a complicated weather situation but also accidents on the network. In order to optimise the availability of production capacity in winter, by adjusting the maintenance programmes of the different production units and the specific measures taken by Belgium on demand management, on the permanent monitoring of security of supply and on the optimisation of interconnections, a minimum strategic reserve of 1,200 megawatts for winter 2014-2015 was confirmed by the Royal Decree of 16 July 2014. Since the procurement process by Elia had already been completed, as the tender was closed, it was decided to take into account all the bids received by Elia, a volume of 850 megawatts for this winter of 2014-15. As soon as I took office, I asked Elia to enter into additional reserve capacity, which she was able to do up to 170 megawatts. The CREG's proposals to adapt the Electricity Act in order to clarify certain aspects and consequences of the strategic reserve seem entirely justified to me, in view of what I have just said. In view of the absence of a legal provision, I have asked the working group composed by Elia, CREG and DG Energy to take into account the proposals of CREG. It is already clear to me that new technical and economic parameters relating to the availability of units likely to participate in the strategic reserve for the coming winters will have to be clearly established. In order to do so, I requested that the Working Party analyse the following points: clarify the possibility and the obligation to participate in strategic reserves; specify under what conditions the units forming part of the reserve may again operate on the market; and involve in the reserve production units not connected to the transport network.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u40	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u41	Mr. President, Minister, the Electricity Act of 29 April 1999 provides for a requirement to notify temporary or permanent shutdowns of power generation units. The regulator notes that producers who have doubts about restarting their units announce closures and reserve the right to waive them at any time. This remark naturally invites me to ask you about the notifications that have been sent for reactors that are currently shut down. Madam Secretary of State, can you give me details of the successive notifications that have been sent by the producer on these specific files? More broadly, has the government taken or intends to take measures to strengthen existing provisions to avoid the pitfall of the CREG? If so, what additional requirements are you considering?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in response to these questions and on the basis of the closures announced by the various producers, I will give you a table showing the thermal units which will be decommissioned in 2015 and 2016. You will find that the announced volume is 1,725 megawatts. In addition, to ensure security of supply over the medium term, starting in the winter of 2015-2016, DG Energy began a reflection on regulatory adaptations for the launch of new calls for tenders for the winter of 2015-2016. The synthesis of this work is expected in the coming weeks. Priority will be given to stepping up measures to make demand more flexible by, inter alia, acting on balancing rules in order to reduce consumption peaks and to take into account the real demand reduction potential in the needs assessment process. In addition, consideration will be given to a new market model, including an existing capacity support system to limit the number of unit closures and ensure the country's supply capacity, and will be one of my priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u43	Mr President, I must say that I am still a little hungry. Indeed, the picture I have, it is true, not analysed, relates to decisions for the future. But my question also relates to the moment – I am aware that you were not yet in charge of the department at the time – when your administration received notifications for the power plants – especially nuclear ones – which are now closed. That said, the second part of my question is about the pitfall. You mentioned a working group. But, in principle, do you agree with the conclusions of the CREG and which I share, namely that it is imperative to find a way to avoid this pitfall which allows producers to decide to close a production unit by reserving the right to renounce at any time?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u44	My colleague, of course, we are trying to avoid closures; we are doing everything we can. But that does not depend solely on our good will.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u45	Minister, the problem of closures is not discussed here. The problem lies in the fact that we announce a closure and then give it up. There is a lack of clarity, there is a pitfall that makes it possible to act like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u46	I'm not in a position to answer you right now. As I indicated, I would like to raise this issue with my administration in order to understand the situation on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u47	I understand your caution. I shall therefore come back to the matter at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u48	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I am not going to go back to retroacts. The CREG is now wondering about the status of this company, which currently manages the energy block trading markets for the next day and infraday. The regulator pleads for the adaptation of this status and proposes to allow Belpex to be designated as the sole manager of these trading markets. Minister, is the federal government considering measures to grant a monopoly to this company? What about European progress in this area, including the establishment of a common management mechanism? Could you provide me with the relevant information on this subject, particularly with regard to the consultation with your EU counterparts?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u49	Mr President, as you know, in its report on the advisory mission to the public authorities, CREG proposes to grant a legal monopoly to Belpex. This monopoly would, according to the federal regulator, allow Belpex to subcontract certain tasks such as reserve management. This is normally the responsibility of the transmission system operator. However, the Belpex electricity exchange, in charge of J-1 and subday markets, still has, according to CREG, the best assets for an effective implementation of this reserve management mechanism. I have once again instructed my administration to analyse the consequences of such a proposal. However, I would like to point out that a possible monopoly would be contrary to European legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u50	An in-depth study is therefore under way, but a priori, you say that there may be a problem. How long should this in-depth study be available? So I don't come back too fast with a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u51	I can't answer you. I ask my services a lot and I do not know to what extent they can respond immediately to all the requests I make. Like the barrel of the cannon, "in a certain time."
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u52	I will also come back "in a certain time" with my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u53	Mr President, I will try to be succinct. I come back here to the legislative framework that allows our country to be fully in line with the transposition of the third energy package. The Interconnector, the European gas network, is currently considered to be a network operator under Belgian law, which is not without some questions at the level of the regulatory monitoring framework. This network connects Belgium to the United Kingdom and offers a range of UK natural gas destinations. Natural gas passes through the Interconnector terminal, not only in the direction of the continent, but also in the opposite direction. These can be natural gas from different countries. Minister, the importance of this network does not escape you. That is why, in the light of the comments made by the CREG, I would like to know whether you have started thinking about the measures to be taken to change Article 25 of the gas law which excludes Interconnector from the application of the regulatory framework? As a corollary, can you provide me with a brief inventory of the status of the discussions aimed at adapting the gas legislation to allow Interconnector to participate in the next capacity auction in March 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u54	Mr President, Mr Nollet, you referred to Rule 25. It is true that this article provides for a derogation regime for Interconnector and makes it inapplicable certain provisions of the Gas Act. This article reflects the federal legislature's desire to maintain a degree of consistency between the system applicable in the United Kingdom and that applied in Belgium on the same interconnection, which serves in both directions. However, the management of interconnections must comply with European legislation, and this must be sufficient to ensure consistency between the applicable regimes. The Belgian authorities informed the European Commission on 18 March 2014 that they were examining with CREG the status of the Interconnector, in order to see to what extent a possible amendment of the law should take place. In this context, CREG proposed to adapt gas legislation as a matter of urgency to allow Interconnector to participate in the auction in March 2016, with a view to the expiry of these long-term contracts by 1 October 2018. I have once again instructed my administration to review the CREG proposal in order to prepare the necessary legislative adjustments.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u55	Thank you, as the necessary adaptations are being prepared.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u56	Question No 101 by Mrs Len Dierick is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u57	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, we come to the time when you are a minister. I'm done with the questions I've put before. The daily La Libre Belgique on 25 October relates the acceptance in your head of the antiblack-out software developed by a French computer scientist and yet refused by your predecessor, Mr Wathelet. Minister, what is the impact in terms of the saved MWh that you are looking for across Belgium through the purchase of such software? What is the cost of purchasing the software? What other factors have been decisive in this radical change of course? When will the software be implemented? Who will benefit from the implementation of this software? How will this software be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u58	Mr President, Mr Nollet, I have not read the article in La Libre Belgique. So I don't know exactly what was said. In fact, I have made no decision about the acquisition of such software. I have obviously been contacted by the people who develop it, more precisely an intermediary who wants to take it to the front of the administration. I just said I was open to that idea. Only, I have to comply with the law on public procurement. Of course, I have no intention of not respecting it at all. This software to be installed has been proposed to the Belgian State for a total of about 11 million euros. To date, it has not received any guarantee of effectiveness and has not been tested in a foreign country. That's too bad! As it is developed by a Frenchman, one might have wished it had been tested in France. For my part, I believe that awareness-raising and demand reduction measures are effective – while remaining cautious and open-minded – and are certainly less costly. In this regard, and in order to avoid the activation of the discharge plan, which remains the ultimate measure – as I said in the loop, we want to do everything we can to avoid it – it seems to me necessary to encourage the general public to reduce their energy consumption and, as long as they do, to adopt new behaviours, as we were able to do at the time for the sorting of waste, since the best energy is that which we do not consume. An awareness-raising campaign had therefore been set up and launched. The red wire was "reducing our electricity consumption and, together, we will avoid the removal". This campaign was developed with the participation of Elia, the SPF Economy and the Domestic SPF Crisis Centre. Many private and public partners also support this campaign by relaying it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u59	Minister, as I understand it, it is not your intention to launch this potential procurement at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u60	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u61	Minister, thank you for that clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u62	Madam Minister, if you wish we can stop for a few minutes, so that you can finish your sandwich at ease. We are working at a very steady and even rare pace in committee. It is also the context that wants this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u63	Or the interlocutors... I'll talk to Mr. Calvo!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u64	Mr President, Minister, the budgetary decision annexed to the government agreement provides for savings of €1.2 million and 2% annually from 2016 to 2019. How should this 2% target be read each year? Is this 2% of the EUR 1.2 million or 2% of Fedesco's current budget? Should we understand that these 2% become 4% in 2016, 6% in 2017, 8% in 2018 and 10% in 2019? In concrete terms, what policies will be abolished or reduced to achieve such objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u65	Mr President, Mr Nollet, as regards the budgetary aspects of this body, I would ask you to ask my colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. With regard to the other part of your question, I would like to point out that the Fedesco is working with the Régie des Bâtiments in carrying out its tasks and that the government wishes, as mentioned in the policy note, to dissolve Fedesco in favour of the Régie des Bâtiments in order to avoid double responsibilities. Since the people who work at the Fedesco, for whom I have the greatest respect, are already in constant contact with the Régie des Bâtiments and will be taken over within the framework of the Régie des Bâtiments, it is a simple rationalization in terms of organization that is desired here.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u66	Minister, I realize that this question should have been tabled with your colleague. I would like to take this opportunity to ask Mr. President a technical question. When such a situation occurs, is there not an automatic redirection of the issue by the services? It will happen again to be on top of the skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u67	It would appear that the minister or his team validates the question a priori.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u68	Minister, if this situation is to happen again, say so. Thus, the question can be redirected directly to the appropriate minister rather than having an incomplete answer. In any case, this is how the Walloon Parliament is conducted.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u69	Mr Nollet, you can put this question to the competent minister. At the beginning of the legislature, everything has yet to be worked out.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u70	Mr. Chair, Minister, this is a brief but important issue. What's the status of the sabotage investigation? What is the status of pre-start procedures? What steps still need to be taken? According to what calendar? A question of principle: is it conceivable for you that the reactor will restart before the identity of the offender(s) is known?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u71	Mr President, this is a matter for another colleague, because nuclear safety, managed by AFCN, is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Jan Jambon. I will not go too far and will discuss it with you, apart from questions, in this committee. I know how investigations are conducted. Some are concerned about this, but it is not unusual to have no information to date; it does not mean that there is no information. In fact, a complaint was brought before the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office after the sabotage in August 2014. In Belgium, for investigations carried out by the Public Prosecutor's Office, we operate under an inquisitorial procedure: it does not allow access to information discovered in the context of the investigation. This helps the investigation to continue in good conditions. As for your question of Doel 4 restarting without knowing the authors, it will be necessary to ask my colleague from the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u72	Mr. Chair, Minister, in our accompanying e-mail, we interviewed the services to find out who specifically asked this question. It won't take us back in the future. This is not a criticism, but a mere observation as to the difficulty of knowing certain recipients. Besides, we're still running around, as everyone says.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u73	Mr President, Madam Minister, while the final sprint is being played for the Paris World Conference, Belgium is one of the three countries of the European Union to receive a double red card. Despite the measures already decided, if it does not change the trend, it will not achieve the targets set, either in terms of reducing greenhouse gases or in terms of energy efficiency. As far as greenhouse gases are concerned, Belgium's 2020 target is a 15% reduction compared to 2005. [[However, according to the European Energy Agency, with a constant policy, the reduction will be only 4%, barely more than 25% of the overall target!]] First red card. As regards energy efficiency, the 2020 target resulted in an average reduction in primary energy consumption of -1.05% per year (linearly distributed). However, the 2005 finding / 2012 only leads to a reduction of -0,75 %. Worse, when we look at final energy consumption, the goal was to achieve a linear annual decrease of -0.82%, but over the period 2005 to 2012, we are only -0.06%; that is less than 10% of the target! Second red card sanctioning the worst European score. In a recent report, the Federal Bureau of the Plan also indicated that if no new policy was decided, Belgium would only achieve the energy efficiency expected by 2020 by 2025. In other words, Belgium must speed up and extend the measures taken to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions and increase its energy efficiency. What conclusions do you draw from this very bad bulletin? What measures have been taken to ensure that, as a minimum, Belgium can achieve the objectives set for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u74	Mr President, in the course of the debate, we raised this issue earlier, which we may not have done sufficiently well and which we shall return to again, I am sure. The data published by the European Environment Agency indicate that, as measures are currently being implemented by the Regions and the Federal State, Belgium will not meet its greenhouse gas emission reduction target of -15 % by 2020 in sectors not covered by the ETS. These data were compiled on the basis of Belgium's latest official report to the European Commission in March 2013. Updated data based on new projections are being prepared and will be available by March 2015. Given the integration of the new projections of the latest developments in climate policy at regional and federal level, this assessment of Belgium's performance vis-à-vis the 2020 targets is likely to change. Let's be positive! In the framework of the National Reform Programme of April 2013 and Article 3 of the Energy Efficiency Directive, Belgium has set a new indicative target of 18% by 2020. This 18% target can be achieved on the basis of existing energy saving measures within Belgium and takes into account the regional target of 9% to be achieved for 2016 compared to 2007, 1% per year. In April 2014, Belgium notified the European Commission of the 3rd Energy Efficiency Action Plan. This impact assessment shows that Belgium is on its way to achieving the objective pursued. Since energy efficiency is primarily a matter of regional competence, it is primarily the responsibility of the Regions to make the necessary adjustments in their policies and to achieve the 20% target of the European Union. Federal authorities can only provide a limited contribution to this objective. The necessary measures shall be taken to implement the Energy Efficiency Directive in order to support the achievement of the objective. The measures taken by the various authorities – the Federal State and the Regions – will have to be implemented with a view to ensuring consistency and effectiveness so that their mutual effects are strengthened. The recent regional and federal government agreements are in line with this. In this regard, I believe that it will be necessary to strengthen cooperation in the field of climate policy by optimising existing structures, such as the National Climate Commission, and increasing their transparency. I am more precise than before; in fact, I could have used the answer immediately, but I forgot that you were asking this question. However, the lack of agreement on the allocation of the efforts and opportunities of the European climate-energy package, the national burden sharing, which the governments of the previous legislature unfortunately could not conclude, is an obstacle to the adoption of new measures by the various authorities. My priority is therefore to bring these discussions to a successful conclusion as soon as possible and to conclude a cooperation agreement so that each authority will then assume its responsibilities within a clearly defined framework in order to maximize synergies and complementarities. The Federal State confirms that it will make its share of the effort to achieve the 2020 targets. I can already tell you that the areas of taxation, biofuels, product standards, all that I mentioned earlier, up to offshore wind, are all levers that allow us to deploy a significant emission reduction potential. We will also discuss with the electricity sector how existing gas-fired power plants can be optimised and modernised to increase their profitability and enhance security of supply by reducing emissions from the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u75	Mr President, I will make use of my right of reply here; once it is not customary tonight. Indeed, the statement made today by the European Environment and Energy Agency is alarming, including by integrating the policies already decided, apart from the new policies of the federal government as you said; I agree and we will wait for the update. Contrary to what has been said at the moment, the sum of everything that has been decided, including for the future, is not enough to achieve the objectives set. This is particularly disturbing and disturbing. I link to this the fact that the federal government no longer has a quantified energy efficiency target, no more trajectory – the only trajectory will be the greenhouse gas – and no longer has a quantified renewable energy target – the two points for which it has received a red card. Minister, this is the end of the evening, but I am sorry to say that I am not satisfied with this. I'll come back to it later. It is not by breaking the thermometer and no longer making a trajectory that we will be able to improve the situation, which is really problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u76	Mr. President, Minister, scientific experts from all disciplines related to sustainable development (climateologists, glaciologists, geologists, mathematicians, chemists, etc.).), both French and French, coming from all the scientific and academic institutions in the country, have just sent a call to the federal government for the creation of a centre of excellence for climate, as already exists in France, Austria, Great Britain and elsewhere in Europe. Minister, what welcome do you have to do with this? Do you subscribe to it? What are you going to do to respond positively to this request?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u77	Mr President, as you know, a strong knowledge base is essential to understanding the problem of climate change and to guiding decision-making in the areas of mitigation, through the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, and adaptation. There is a real need for access to objective, coherent and reliable climate information, in particular to better understand and understand our vulnerability to climate change in different areas (health, energy, economy, transport, biodiversity) and to anticipate future risks at best. The networking of climate research institutions would make it possible to establish a multidisciplinary reference structure in Belgium. This would also strengthen the science-policy interface and facilitate the identification of priority areas for research, while informing the various economic or institutional actors and valuing the expertise available, particularly at the international level. This would also be a privileged point of contact with users of climate services. That is why the creation of a federal centre of reference for climate expertise is one of the 34 measures proposed in the draft federal plan "Adaptation to climate change" which I intend to adopt as soon as possible in consultation with my colleagues involved in the implementation of this plan, including the Secretary of State for Science Policy. A preparatory study for the establishment of this centre, carried out at the initiative of the Science Policy PPS, is being finalized. It should make it possible to formulate proposals on the structure and mode of operation of the centre and to draw up a road map for its implementation. For more information, I refer you to my colleague from the Scientific Policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u78	Mr President, I hear the positive response to this excellent idea of creating this climate centre of excellence.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u79	Madam Minister, in La Libre Belgique of this 7th November, you say: "We must not imagine that, if we go to waste, the Minister of Economy and I will necessarily choose tranche 6". Can we then know which slice you will choose and according to what order? Since 1 November, although it is still relatively good, we have entered the sensitive period in terms of the risk of resorting to relief. The weather, as I said just now, is relatively mild. Nevertheless, citizens have the right to know how the discharge will be implemented, if there is any relief. I'm worried about the uncertainty you've installed. People saw the cards. You know that changes have been made, because half of the slices in the southern part had to be subdivided in order to restore a balance. However, you are changing the order of the slices. Could you, then, enlighten us on this point? In this same interview, you announce, in response to an inquiry by the mayor of Ghent, that you will not change the release plan until winter 2015-2016. Should it be understood that it is the Wathelet-Fonck Plan No. 2 - that is, the plan that divides the southern areas into A and B - that will apply for this winter 2014-15? This plan has indeed remained somewhat in limbo. So first of all, if the tranche 6 is not concerned, what tranche is that? Then, do you take the Wathelet-Fonck 2 plan as it is? If you elaborate something else, it will disrupt a lot of people in terms of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u80	Mr President, I should like to point out that Mrs Lalieux has tabled a similar question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u81	In any case, these are not joint questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u82	Mr President, I simply wanted to know whether it was up to me to say that or whether it was up to the services to reach them automatically. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u83	I'm the one who has to say it. So I'll do it next time. In the case of manual activation of the release plan, slices 6, 5, 4 and 3 will be given priority in order not to impede the proper functioning of the automatic release plan in the event of sudden occurrence – since in the latter case it is slices 1 and 2 that are reserved. You know that it is up to the Minister of Economy and I to determine which slices will be activated. I can therefore understand that this is disturbing. To put it simply, everyone can come to invoke a particular situation by believing that the order was 6, 5, 4 and 3 – as Mr Termont did in Ghent, who recalled that "Seveso" companies were installed in the port of that city. Moreover, in addition to being covered by tranche 6, it is covered by tranche 3. On the other hand, when I began to study the case, I understood that this order was somewhat jurisprudential to my predecessors. This is not automatically the way it should be imagined. Of course, in case of continuous discharge, the same slice is not removed, and slices A and B have not remained in the limbs, they exist and they will not be removed at the same time. If we unload slice 6, for example, in the north, we will unload the 6A to the south, and then only, in another release, the 6B.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u84	It is at the moment when we return to 6, that this time, for the southern part, it is 6B.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u85	That's right. After that, when we've gone all the way around, to avoid always falling on the same people. It is not my intention to pre-emptively communicate the order of activation of the slices that will be removed, for several reasons, two of which are essential. Firstly, do not compromise the solidarity effect demanded of all citizens. Secondly, the duration and extent of the shortage are not predictable. The decision will be made on the basis of information provided by Elia at the appropriate time on certain parameters. People are all in a slice and know, depending on what is announced, whether their slice is concerned. A priori, they know the part in which they are located, or they can be informed through the Elia site, DG Energy and possibly their supplier. I do not rule out a solution being found as a last resort. It will depend on the duration and extent of the shortage and on the measures that have been taken locally to limit the risk. Because all of this is also happening. You should not imagine that we play darts on D-1 day to designate the slice. It is based on concrete elements related to the situation of the network at that time. That is what makes the decision conditional.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u86	The decision to activate the discharge or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u87	And activate it on some slice. First of all, to activate the discharge, of course...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u88	The selection of the slice is related to...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u89	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u90	This is never how it was presented.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u91	That's how I've been introduced to him, and that's how I think things can happen right now. But we will have an in-depth exchange of views on these issues. I will of course prepare this exchange of views in every detail so that I can answer all your questions, which are very legitimate, because they concern the whole population. The goal is certainly not to make the population panic or cause continuous and permanent fear effects. People write to me; I answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u92	I understand that, and I agree with you. But with what you confirm today, namely that this will not necessarily be done in the order in which it was intended, it seems to me that you are introducing uncertainty into a device, which is already not obvious to understand. It was said that it would be first slice 6, then 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 and then return to slice 6, with 6A and 6B. Today, you say it's in J-1 that you're going to decide the order in which we're going to take off. My locality, Madam Minister, is in tranche 6, so we were about to be the first to be relieved. It doesn't matter, it's solidarity and it makes sense. In other localities, which are in tranche 3, we thought, "We have time to see and see how it goes". And today, you come to tell them that even if you're in slice 3, it's possible that they're selected to be the first. This therefore fundamentally changes the problem for them; not for us, in tranche 6, we are ready to be the first, even if we do not yet know whether we are A or B. But for the others, what is being done here is something particularly disturbing. Aandacht! I hope you understand that term!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u93	Mr President, I will explain myself even better. When I talk about the effect of solidarity, it's real. I think, I hope and I ask for solidarity. Whether the energy economy of Arlon benefits Ostend, whether that of Brussels benefits Malines, Tournai or Charleroi. In short, let there be an effect of solidarity. This effect of solidarity can be countered by people who believe they are the last to be injured. Those who think they will be the last to be relieved, in tranche 3, may not feel concerned by the demand for energy saving. That's what I want to avoid. What I want to make clear is that the energy saving that is demanded and which is accentuated in the process of the 7 days before a potential discharge, can sometimes make sure that the discharge does not occur because, precisely, the energy saving is increased for the whole territory and for all the slices. That's what's important. The rest is a decision that is linked to other parameters. It's not that you want to take the weight off, but the circumstances might make it necessary, at some point, to take the weight off since each slice makes 500 MW. Each slice makes it possible to return to a network balance of 500 MW. And so, if we find that in tranche 5, for example, there is a disaster (floods, geysers of water that flood half of the commune) and that in addition, we should do a relief, because there would no longer be enough supply on tranche 5, we will not accumulate the problems there! Do you understand? There may be elements that will lead us to make decisions so as not to aggravate the situation in the area that should be affected. These are the two effects. At the same time, we must promote and repeat in a loop that this solidarity is fundamental and that there is no question that some people say: "I am in tranche 6, I am making efforts because I do not want to be relieved" while others will say "I am in tranche 3, I wait because anyway, I have time to wait".
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u94	I understand the basis of the reasoning, that is to say, the problematic local situations that must be taken into account before we see the possibility of a discharge. In this case, I understand and share the demand for solidarity. But I think – and it is not too late to change your mind, since we will be discussing it again in a future committee – that your answer is not at all adequate in relation to two objectives. I'll explain. For local situations, it can indeed happen that if you stop supplying power to a particular locality, you can do worse than better. In that case, you might as well do it somewhere else. But in this kind of situation, it is not on a complete area that this is being done, but on a few localities, that we will have to be able to replenish from the GRDs. In any case, I invite you to analyse this in the case of problematic situations. This should be done, but not by changing the zone. Secondly, with regard to solidarity. Personally, I think solidarity is already playing out with the "OFF/ON" campaign, on the one hand, which should not be limited in time and, on the other hand, between J-7 and J-1. But believing that solidarity is going to be played between J-1 and J because we're not going to know where we're going to intervene first is, I think, fundamentally wrong. It's taking the risk of creating more panic, because we don't know who it's going to fall on first. I therefore invite you to reflect on what I have just said to you because between J-2 and J you do not have time to create solidarity; it is before we create it. There, you're more likely to cause panic. Maybe I misunderstood?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u95	We are not entirely in agreement. I'll have the opportunity to deepen...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u96	Minister, in principle, it is Parliament that has the last word. So if you answer, I'll have to let Mr. Nollet intervene again.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u97	I'm not going to get into this little game, Mr. President. I just want to get some more details.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u98	Mr. President, you're right. We will discuss this further in the next exchange of views.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u99	And I invite you to take into account the elements that I have brought.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u100	I have to thank you, to tell you that dealing with 18 questions in 90 minutes is a good rhythm. We have respected the Rules, which – believe my experience – is not always the case in this house. I would like to return, Madam Minister, to your comment on Mrs Lalieux's question. I think that is the item on agenda item 30. This question obviously remains on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u101	Yeah, and I'll answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u102	What should be done, when you come to this question and if the content is exactly the same, will be to refer to the answer you have just given to Mr Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u103	Mr President, let me also thank the Minister for this first exchange exercise, as well as the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u104	I was gonna make it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u105	I therefore look forward, Mr President, to thanking all the departments concerned, because we have taken our work a little longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u106	I would like to associate myself with the thanks you have just expressed. And I would also like to say that the questions that have not been asked, with the exception of those that were attached to those that have been asked, are postponed to a later meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-18-54-commissie-ic020x.u107	Mr President, I would also like to associate myself with these thanks for this first, as far as I am concerned, in your committee.
